mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to a danger that is about to be posed to a small island in the centre of the mediterranean, rich in rare plant and animal species: the sardinian. in fact, soon sardinia could be filled with radioactive waste. after imposing military bases and their pollution of lead and uranium dust, now, to harm the health of citizens, there may also be nuclear waste. with just days to go before the material is sorted, the government is keeping everyone in the dark about where, how and how much waste to store. it is time for someone, europe first, to take action and avert the terrible fate that this island could face: the aim is to become europe's first toxic waste dump. that is why i am formally asking the commission today in this house to be vigilant and to act before it is too late!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, may the europe that spoke in paris be consistent and make an extraordinary commitment to defending democratic freedoms and freedom of expression and to helping all countries that are victims of extremism. we must not leave africa alone! a few weeks ago, in this house, dr mukwege was awarded the sakharov prize, and a few days ago the accounts of the hospital he runs were frozen. europe must send a strong signal in defence of freedom and against any serious violation of human rights, as in the case of the democratic republic of congo! europe, which spoke in paris, does not leave nigeria alone, where an endless horror is being consumed at the hands of boko haram, and i am pleased that the decision has been taken in this house today by parliament to continue on this point. we must not forget that the european union is a political force, a political force which is not only a political force but also a political force. but there is hope, as embodied by a girl who a few days ago showed the strength to stand up to her tormentors by refusing to be blown up, and who, after the first explosion, courageously surrendered to the authorities and rebelled. europe must be there, leading an international task force!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr renzi, in his speech in this chamber on 2 july, when italy took over the presidency, you said that the great challenge was to find the soul of the european union. on sunday we were in paris, the soul of europe was there, among millions of people. to those who want to shut us in, to those who want to build walls, instill mistrust, fear, we responded on sunday by going out into the streets, marching together. the attack in paris is not simply an attack on freedom of thought, of expression, it is an attack on european sovereignty and european sovereignty means that a people is free to choose how to live and that no one can impose on us a way of life that we do not want. we must therefore be careful not to fall into the trap of terrorism which would like to turn our societies into besieged fortresses: after 9/11, america chose to build more prisons than colleges, let's not make the same mistake in europe! europeans want to live in an open society, where freedom and security coexist. the european union's role in the world is to help the developing countries to develop their economies and to help them to develop their economies. it means giving citizens a life of freedom and dignity, and the first freedom is from want. blind and deaf austerity has increased unemployment, precariousness and poverty. the italian presidency has set the conditions for europe to get back on track. in july, when you spoke of investments to be revived, many people smiled, mr president. this afternoon, as president juncker and you yourself have mentioned, the commission will adopt the regulation on the 300 billion plan. we have a growth plan, with strengths and also weaknesses, which my group is committed to working on so that they can be changed. when you opened the semester, you also talked about flexibility, and there was a lot of irony there too: what is this flexibility renzi is talking about? it was like a don quixote battle! renzi don quixote who comes here and manages to undo and remove the rigors with which the pact was implemented. today the commission is officially presenting the communication on flexibility and i believe that it will contain important elements of which we can be proud. thanks also to the italian presidency, we were able to stop the idea of those who wanted to de facto supervise the member states, imposing sanctions if they refused to implement the reforms decided on in brussels; what was going to be bad communication turned into a great starting point. we get a major breakthrough, the golden rule of investing, it seemed like a dream, a chimera: the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's external relations. the cofinancing of the structural funds also seemed like a chimera, a dream, and it is a fact! a revolutionary fact, of course! go and talk to the citizens, the regions, the private actors, who cannot co-finance the european funds. yes, we still want to achieve more, but these are important facts and results. let me quote you one last time, president schultz, from a story by borges: a child asks a wise man if he can touch the stars and the wise man bends down and touches the earth! we must go forward with you, president renzi, to change europe.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, millions of citizens in paris on sunday finally made the heart of europe beat, and it was a consolation in the midst of the pain to see heads of government marching in the streets, for once in the name of great values, instead of being locked up in smoky summits discussing decimal points of 3%. six months ago you gave us the illusion - something you do very well - of opening a dream book with a magic recipe to bring european citizens closer to an institution which you described as boring. she promised to commit ambition, energy, courage - qualities i acknowledge - but they remained words! in six months you have spent a lot of energy looking for little loopholes in treaties that need to be rewritten or scrapped. or does some madman really believe that italy, with the third largest public debt in the world, in the face of recession and deflation, will ever be able to apply the fiscal compact? he had no ambition to claim a role for the mediterranean area other than the peripheral destiny of the empire! he didn't have the courage to call for an end to the austerity that destroyed the middle class. it was a very un-european and very italian semester, and you were very busy explaining to the italians how to combat mass unemployment by making it easier to lay off workers or by decriminalising tax crimes to combat tax evasion. six months ago mr verhofstadt said that in the relationship between italy and europe we had lost ten years because of berlusconi's nonsense, and today we are ten years and six months behind!
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president renzi, six months ago in this chamber you said: if europe were to take a selfie, it would have a face of boredom, a face of weariness, a face of resignation. that seems to us to be the exact description of your italian term as president. i think that today in this house i see a magician pulling the rabbit out of the cylinder, here he hopes to surprise everyone by pulling out of the jacket the promise of an agreement to guarantee greater flexibility in national budgets, we shall see! unfortunately, from the first indications, we seem to understand that this agreement is only the minimum of what was expected, that is, only with investments to co-finance projects already identified and promoted by the commission itself. a little bit compared to last july's premises! let us say that this latest twist will not fool us again, we will not be able to distract ourselves from the fact that his was the semester of lost opportunities and i say this because when you take the lead of such an important institution, you must absolutely give your best, because if you pull hard you bring advantage to everyone, otherwise we are just wasting time! it was a missed opportunity, the appointment of his pupil mogherini as high representative for foreign affairs, insisting on a frontal role when we could and should have asked for a portfolio that could really make a difference. mogherini, who, by the way, has not yet brought home the maroons. the employment growth, which you have so much touted as a priority for the six months, was a lost opportunity, but you were unable to propose any concrete measures on it, and we see this in italy where 43% of young people are out of work and total unemployment has reached 13.4%. the protection of our undertakings was a lost opportunity, they were calling loudly for you to finally reach an agreement in the council to defend the made in, an agreement which this parliament served you on a silver platter with a rule, but you shamelessly threw in the towel. there were missed opportunities: the energy efficiency agreement, sealed at a lower price, sold to the interests of who knows what powerful powers; the gmo regulation which condemns our farmers to fall into the hands of biotech multinationals; immigration policies, which are poorly constrained to one programme, triton, whose financial allocation is again left to the goodwill of individual states; the lack of transparency on ttip, an agreement which risks further hampering european businesses; the digital agenda programme which does not provide for concrete investments to make our economy more modern and competitive. to return to the image of the selfie, dear president renzi, i regret to tell you that despite the bright smile that you insist on showing in the foreground, behind us we can only see the rubble!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the semester is not rejected by the northern league, it is rejected by this house! i would like for ten seconds, citizens all over europe who are following us on tv and the internet not to see my good or bad face, but to use their cameras to frame this house, turning: it is nothing, it is the desert, it is the worthy end of six months of talk, even the men of renzi's party have not lost a few minutes of their time to listen to his nothingness, obviously this deserted chamber is the best answer to the words to the wind of the one who gave us 80 pages six months ago. we read: europe, a new beginning today he gives us more pages on what has been done, what is left in our hands? unemployment at all-time highs; a wrong currency like the euro that nobody questions; on the defence of undertakings: zero; on the defence of the made in italy: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the protection of european companies against the invasion of counterfeit products from china. is zero; the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the bolkestein directive, which is putting thousands of workers in the bathing industry at risk: is zero; the defence of agriculture: is zero; 4,000 rice farms are at risk because we are being invaded by rice from cambodia: zero; fruit and vegetable farms: zero, you prefer to make deals with morocco, in the name of dialogue, they close companies and we help multinationals that go to invest in north africa, brilliant; we're dealing with problems halfway around the world, and there are two european soldiers who have been held in india for years, sent back and forth: is zero; the european parliament has been very active in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be very active in this area. : is zero; russia, but at a time like this instead of going around paris -- just as so many good people have done -- we are talking to russia, which must be an enemy against islamic extremism. i am glad of one thing, this nothing, on page 11 of your programme there was an intention to restart the negotiations to bring turkey into europe, fortunately your nothing has also prevented us from restarting these negotiations. i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a clear picture of the situation in the baltic countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would suggest that we abandon the selfie metaphor, because we risk seeing a lot of smoke from the rhetoric behind this selfie and perhaps the words: leave all hope or you will enter. i propose that we abandon this narcissistic gesture and look into the eyes of the generation that has been called erasmus, that has been called telemaco and that would turn out to be the generation with the highest youth unemployment that europe remembers. i want to break down the words i've heard mentioned here one by one: growth; growth is the juncker plan? the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of security and defence. or the removal of democracy from ttip? or the expo where thousands of young people will work without pay? i believe that the hope for europe comes from the thousands of people who have demonstrated in italy against a further process of precarisation, with the social strike, with the general strike, and it comes from greece. we cannot talk about europe if we assume that greece will be expelled from our continent. we believe that in greece, with the victory of alexis tsipras, hope can be restored for another europe.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you said that the italian presidency had inspired you, and i wonder if it has also inspired you with regard to the fraud and theft that are coming to light, which our political class has been carrying on all these years. the expo in milan, there's the mafia, there's infiltration of the 'ndrangheta and for years they did nothing and hid everything; the mose in venice, they stole billions of public funds and never said anything and they're all corrupt and no one is guilty and everyone has settled; in rome, there's the mafia capital and all this inspired you? i'm very happy for you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the words with which president juncker has today acknowledged that the two important decisions which the college of commissioners is about to adopt, namely the regulation on the investment plan and the communication on flexibility, were inspired by the italian presidency, should close the debate on the results of this presidency, which i see only as an unmistakable provincialism, partisan and somewhat self-destructive, which is instead persisting in feeding italy and partly this house. these are concrete, highly significant achievements, which go far beyond the traditional tasks of a six-monthly presidency. i understand mr weber's nervousness, but the communication will demonstrate unequivocally that the rules contain flexibility and the problem is that in previous years these rules, that is flexibility in the rules, have not been applied with great harm not to the rules themselves but to the economy of our continent. these are important achievements, above all because of the method, this presidency has insisted on, it has invested in the emerging parliamentary political dimension of europe and if the streets and squares of paris have shown us that europe is not just a procedure, i believe that this bet on a nascent political europe constitutes the main and most lasting legacy of the italian presidency. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you speak of concrete results, and i know that in italy public debt has increased, unemployment has increased, and more companies are closing down. have you read this data? do you talk to the citizens, the businessmen? because the optimism you and our prime minister renzi express is not felt in italy! the situation is only getting worse, so enough of these announcements and these fine words, because in practice the problems are there and have increased in this european semester.
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i see that we are in the midst of a national debate, but the italian economy is in a worrying situation partly because of the wrong choices made over many years, including those made by the governments in which you and your party have placed your trust for many years. the first stage in the process of changing the course of european policy was laid during the first half of this year. of course, to expect a communication approved at 1 p.m. to have its results retrospectively is perhaps a bit too much for any presidency, and i think superman would not be able to do that. i believe that with the results achieved today - with all their limitations - by the college of commissioners, we are laying the foundations for a real change in the direction of european policy, and this is a fact that cannot be ignored and is an extraordinary political success.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that it is clear to everyone that despite the goodwill we are putting into this, mr president, there is not much enthusiasm, we would have expected something more concrete. after so many years in europe, we italians have also got into the good habit of being concrete, because here we are used to getting into the substance, and so, if we somehow opened up a credit in the opening speech, when you with so many beautiful words, however, transported us to the future and future europe, today this momentum that you continue to have towards europe that is obstinately declining in the future, is a little off-topic. we are here today to take stock, so it will certainly be all in those papers, but perhaps it was more useful to be able to open the papers here at this moment to have a little debate between us. it's not like we have a lot of opportunities and the italian semester is ending today and the balance sheet is not the most exciting. we would have expected something more concrete, something more concrete about the files that have been left untouched, on which we will continue to work diligently in the belief that they are important for our fellow citizens, but we would have expected something more about the economy and development. you mentioned the made in, you mentioned many things that have not been achieved, but above all you said nothing and gave no guidance on how to handle the emergencies of these last hours of the triton mission, nothing about the attitude that europe should have towards isis which has become an example and a refuge for all islamic terrorists around the world. nor is there any hope that security expenditure will be partitioned out of the stability pact, which i think could be done in a few hours. from the telemaco with which we had started our journey six months ago, i think we have the image of that little boy who was a little bewildered watching his mother weave and unwrap with his eyes fixed on the horizon, waiting for news that had been delayed for so many years. let's hope we do better in the next six months! (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask mr gardini: we are simply saying that our main objective is to get europe back to growth, and growth is investment. now, these are two results - not only of the juncker plan, but also of the possibility through the golden rule of being able to activate investments directly and indirectly also by the states - absolutely essential. don't you think these are real results? the others have already mentioned others and i do not have time to do so myself, but these seem to me to be very concrete and above all in the absolute line of what we have been asking for these few months, but which you have certainly asked for in the past in vain.
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we can find common ground on this. i do not think it is an abstract matter. i am glad that the italian presidency - as president junker said earlier - has cooperated and not hindered but helped on this road, but it was a road that had already been taken, for example, with regard to the epp, even last spring, long before the italian semester, at our congress in dublin. i would like to say that we have not heard anything about how this speech will be interpreted in italy. that is all very well, but the president has spoken about it, not the president-in-office.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am a member of parliament for the first time and, listening to this debate, i have the feeling that many of the things that were said after your speech would have been said anyway. i am sorry that this debate is a bit depressing and that it also takes away from some legitimate criticisms which could enrich our work. i am one of those who believe that the existence of an investment plan of more than 300 billion euros is a fact and a positive fact, it would have been worse not to have it. so i'm going to start with that, very humbly. i am also prepared to make some substantive arguments, that plan is a plan that has good features but also shadow cones, the leverage from 1 to 20 is challenging. for example, it excludes from this plan many investments which would be strategic but which have little capacity to generate profits, such as investments in the railway sector. people who want to work on the concrete problems, people who want to go all the way in this great attempt, in this great adventure to build a europe that is not the subject of a debate or a conference, but is a place to grow up and raise a family and do business, there is. i assure you there is. it is true that this house is often empty, and unfortunately those who accuse this house of being empty are often not here, but what i am saying is that those who are here are willing to work and study, knowing that our proposal is a proposal with clear roots and i repeat once again: it is the christian-jewish roots that we know at this moment are under attack. we're not waiting for any more signals! (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for giving me the floor after the third blue card which you did not hear and perhaps did not see. i would like to ask you, mr salini, since you are new but you are a member of a party in the european parliament which strongly supports the stability and growth pact, whether what president renzi has achieved this semester to amend the stability and growth pact and then the fiscal compact will be sustainable for italians from a fiscal point of view? this is my question: i want to know if you think this is sustainable, because italians need to know that they will be impoverished in the coming years.
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced of one thing: i was also a local administrator, i was a provincial president and i have therefore experienced the stability pact firsthand. it is not true that the stability pact prevents us from existing, it prevents those who have no alternative proposals for administering the public affairs from existing. we have asked not to avoid the stability pact, but to review it, to re-conceive it, so your concerns are also our concerns but with quid pluris 'some concrete proposals'.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president juncker, the italian presidency, which has just ended its six-month term, has marked a first turning point in europe's political priorities. if the issues of intelligent flexibility, investment and growth policies have been placed on the european political agenda, if italian ships are now crossing the mediterranean with those of other european countries, this is all due to the changed political framework resulting from the elections in may, but above all to the decisive action of the italian presidency. we should all work together to turn this political shift into a constitutive phase that will give us a union that is more authoritative in the world, more attentive to social priorities and to growth based on the real economy. the events of these days have shown us once again that only with more europe can we meet the challenges of the coming years. we would like, mr president, that the image we all saw on sunday, that of european leaders marching together, be translated into political action today. to quote altiero spinelli: " the people who are the most important in the world are the most important. " the road ahead is not easy or safe, but it must be taken!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr renzi, i believe that the italian presidency has played a fundamental and political role in the year of legislative change and also of the revision of the europe 2020 strategy, namely to put at the centre of our attention and our work a policy for investment which president juncker has reaffirmed as inspired by and not just accompanied by the italian presidency; i would also like to extend the interpretation of flexibility, but i would also like to add the important triangle: research, education, culture and audiovisual this is a subject which i know very well from the president's heart and i must say that we have done a very good job, also as chairman of the committee on culture, with the italian presidency, with the minister for culture, youth and sport, because there has been a great deal of work on these issues. i would like to remind you, in this context, that an important result is that education will be one of the five priorities of the investment plan and i would like to see very much attention paid to this and to the link the union has made in the presidency's approach to the last council of ministers on education and entrepreneurship: new skills and new job opportunities must be very central to your work too and we are also very interested in the relaunch of investment in european cultural heritage and the possibility that it will give more opportunities not only for jobs but for cultural tourism and again for economic development to be at the centre of the review of the europe 2020 strategy. i thank the presidency for that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr renzi, we have heard a surreal speech today in a surreal atmosphere. you have spoken of a europe that is changing course, of a new course on flexibility and growth, of a european vision; but what vision and what change, mr. president? the unrealised eurobonds and the miserable 21 billion of the juncker commission? the other troika horse, to distract and deceive the citizens of europe? the one where we forgot again to propose a minimum income and mandatory citizenship for the continent? the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe. your vision, yes, the one in which my generation in italy and in many other countries is split in half, between drowned and saved, in the flood of universal unemployment. since you like literature, i'll tell you that the youth of southern europe is like autumn leaves on the trees, mr president! you didn't rob her of a dream in a drawer, you stole her entire desk! for them and for all the rest of europe, we are here to tear down, together with the other peoples of the mediterranean, that new and horrible wall which is banishing the civilization of the welfare state to the north and condemning the south to the barbarism of an anti-social hyperliberalism. because those who have lost their jobs, those who have closed down the business of generations, those who are 80 years old and are reduced to stealing from supermarkets, today do not need our opinion, they need our courage, a coherent and courageous example, this is europe, this is italy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president renzi had promised a great commitment to small and mediumsized enterprises, and in fact he has made that commitment to save his father's industry from bankruptcy with public funds while other small italian entrepreneurs commit suicide, heartbroken and desperate, together with their employees. we are receiving calls every day, and we have one on the table here, from entrepreneurs in our country, small businessmen and workers who want to save their businesses. we wonder whether president renzi, who is still the president of the italian council, will stop making fun of people and commit himself seriously to saving jobs, to solving the problem of youth unemployment, to doing for others what he did for his father's company, which would have failed if it had not been the company of the president of the council and, more importantly, of this europe.
president of the council. - thank you, president tajani. there are three major issues we are debating. the first concerns the technical budget: i am grateful to the members of the european parliament for pointing out things which i did not list in detail at the beginning, referring to the final text, but it is pleasing that there has been some recognition from the reflection on everything and the work done on the budget to the positive issues which have been tackled this semester which paradoxically came from the house and not from us. that sounds good. i must say with equal frankness that verhofstadt is right when he points out some unfavourable facts: we have not only closed the debate on the telecommunications dossier, a subject on which we shall continue to work, but which certainly represents an element of objective negativity for us. it is a complicated, difficult dossier, which has seen many, many meetings, 11 meetings with the working groups, which was the subject of a very close discussion at the working dinner of the ministers at the informal council in milan in september, the two draft texts we have proposed, some aspects have seen progress, net neutrality, not roaming unfortunately, on which i think there have been the greatest differences. so there is no doubt that there are also many aspects which have not been achieved as we would have liked, but the part of the debate which focused on the results of the semester is a part of the debate which particularly struck us because of the attention paid by colleagues from other political forces or other countries to the objective results achieved. there is a second element, which is the debate - as often happens in the country of origin - the occasion of the end and beginning of the semester is always the occasion for a political debate too - made more complicated certainly in italy because the difficult italian transition has seen the leadership of the government, political governments of one party and technical governments and then political governments of alliances and coalitions led in some cases by opposing components. however, i find it very strange that the meps representing italy should be so careful to highlight all the negative aspects of our country. i say this to president tajani, who has also served the european institutions in other capacities, not only in parliament, and who knows this very well even though we come from different political families. i am referring, for example, to mr maltese, who is not in the chamber, when he says that italy has the third largest public debt in the world: it's true, you are! italy has a significant public debt, think of two trillion euros! yet no one points out that italy has the largest private savings in the world, four trillion euros! and when the five star members come to highlight how families are getting poorer, this is, as sometimes happens, against the reality of facts and figures. think about it, in a time of crisis, italian households saw their savings grow from 3.5 trillion euros to 3.9 (from 2012 to 2014). why did this happen? this has happened because the italian economy - parliament will forgive me if i am forced to answer also on domestic issues - is going through a phase of terror, of concern, the messages that are coming in are messages that are not simply about austerity - which is a philosophical-cultural debate that we could hold for a long time - but about terror and fear of the future, about seeing the future as a threat. so, we come to the paradox that in these months italy has seen its savings and its money increase, families are paradoxically getting richer because they are worried and afraid. it is very difficult to convince you of the reality, but reality is gradually taking hold, as i say to mrs moi, member of parliament for 5 stars, who points out the serious problems of corruption in italy. in 2014 the italian parliament, on a proposal from the government, chose unanimously, on the government's proposal, to entrust raffaele cantone with the task of leading the anti-corruption authority that allowed him to supervise mose, an experience to which mr moi referred, which allowed expo to close the season of illegalities and to open the great theme of content, which allowed him to intervene with legislation that is unprecedented in europe. it is difficult to emphasize the positive aspects of one's own country if one considers the european forum to be the forum in which to speak ill of oneself. the case of mr salvini is different, and i would like to acknowledge his consistency in behaviour rather than content. i think he did a very good job in emphasizing the difficulty and even the sense of bitterness that citizens feel when they see the empty halls of parliament. i am very pleased that mr salvini has found his place in the european parliament, given the large presence in the italian media and the perhaps smaller presence in the european institutions that he has had for 11 years. when mr salvini, who is engaged in a national political battle and whom i respect, because he is on the other side, arrives at the election campaign - in three years, in four years, when he will be (in three years, i would not like to extend the legislature!) - when mr salvini is in the election campaign, it will be easy for the italian citizens to ask him: we will ask renzi what he did in italy and we will ask salvini what he did in these 15 years in the service of europe! but i can say here today, and i will conclude quickly, that today the political group representing mr salvini's model has for example proposed the suspension of the schengen agreements. this is an objective which mrs marine le pen has illustrated not in the house but with great attention in the press conference. i would like to quote the italian minister of the interior, a member of the same party as the northern league, led by salvini, who said exactly this: i think that if we suspend schengen, that would be the end of europe. i think that what maroni was saying was that italy should be totally opposed to the closure of the schengen area. this agreement, this statement, this statement by mr salvini, who is trying to turn to the left but will not be able to achieve the political result, demonstrates very strongly and very clearly a very simple thing, namely that there is a striking distance between demagogy and reality. there's a crazy distance between those who invest in a political idea that can excite and those who bet on fear. and that, if i may be permitted, mr president, is also the final point i would like to leave to the european debate. let me explain: today, in italy, there is a derby, it is the derby between those who see the difficulties but stand up and try to solve them and try to imagine a future for our country at least as great as the history from which we come and, on the other hand, there are those who, seeing the difficulties bet on failure, those who bet on fear, those who bet on the fact that we will not make it. it's a message, perhaps, convenient at the electoral level although, i want to say to my colleagues in ukip who are not here now and who came before shouting that i would call those who are voters brutes i represent the party that got the most votes in all of europe, the democratic party 11 million and 200 thousand people and so we do not consider those who vote as brutes; we consider those who deny the reality of the facts to be brutes, and the reality of the facts is that we will get out of this crisis situation not by investing in fear, not by betting on failure, but by trying to make our children understand that the only possible solution is that europe is not a relic, not a place of memories, not a museum of waxes, not a collection of common places and made-up phrases! europe can only make sense if it can put the lives of people who want to believe in tomorrow back at the centre, who are not afraid and who are not concerned to see what is happening in the world as a mere threat. is the world scary? yes, i think, believe and hope that it will be a common conviction that europe is greater than fears and threats and that europe is much stronger in its values than any attack that may exist. this is the difference between us and those who want to live like brutes, we believe that the future that awaits us will depend on the commitment of each one of us and if we are able to be consistent with our history, this future is a future that will see the stars of europe guide the way and navigate, also in our country.
i thank the italian presidency for the work it has done in these months. good luck to italy, a country of which i have the honour to be a citizen, a founding country of the union. i now give the floor to the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - mr president, at the end of this debate i would like to pay tribute once again to the quality of the work of the italian government, the italian presidency and the president of the council, mr matteo renzi. i would not like to prolong the italian-italian debate on the rest. it seems to me that we are here in the european parliament, and as i promised you the other day that i would never interfere in the internal politics of another country, i shall immediately be silent.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. today marks the end of the six-month italian presidency of the council of the eu. despite the loud proclamations, no one has noticed the address that italy has printed for the eu. it was supposed to change everything, and instead, in a form of cat-pardism 2.0, nothing has changed at all. the investment plan presented by juncker and the efforts made to promote flexibility, as well as the appointment of federica mogherini as high representative, will be mentioned. these are semantic hoaxes, demagogic responses, whose sole purpose is to throw smoke in the eyes of european citizens and to divert attention from the really important issues. for example, nothing has been done on tax harmonization and, on the contrary, we continue to tolerate advanced forms of tax competition which harm taxpayers and undermine the project of european integration. the so-called web tax is emblematic in this respect. it was renzi who solemnly promised to take action in the council. however, the italian presidency has now ended and nothing has changed. renzi the magic piper has struck again. it is a pity that the citizens are the only ones who have to pay the consequences. i hope the latvian presidency will do more. it shouldn't be too difficult.
in writing. the italian presidency of the council has opened its six-month term virtually at the same time as the new european parliament term. the challenge we faced last july was clear: the commission's proposal is to show that the european institutions can change and break free from the dogma of austerity, and can respond to the economic and social crisis with concrete actions, with policies that are attentive to the needs of citizens and businesses and not just to budgetary balances. today, as president renzi is speaking in parliament, the commission is meeting to approve the proposal for a regulation on the 315 billion investment fund and the new guidelines on the flexibility of national budgets. can we say that europe has changed in just six months? i think rather that with the new parliament, the commission which took office in november and the exceptional contribution of the italian presidency we have finally started the manoeuvre to change direction. in italy, the government has chosen the motto "step by step". i think that's a message that can work in europe as well. the manoeuvre has begun, the engines must now be given a boost, and to do this parliament must be able to convert the pressure of the citizens into the best fuel.
in writing. as regards investment, italy has been working since the beginning of the semester to put this issue at the centre of eu policy action. the purchase of liquidity at low prices will be an important resource for the market in the next two years, thanks to the ecb's action, and effective and strategic projects will be a useful tool to this end. the last ecofin meeting of the italian presidency then finalized the details of the 'single resolution fund' which will be capitalised over the next eight years, taxing european banks for an amount equal to 1% of deposits. the italian presidency also gave the final impetus to a number of environmental dossiers, culminating in their adoption. among the many: - the directive on freedom from the prohibition of the cultivation of gmos; - the agreement on standards for the disposal of single-use plastic bags; - ratification of the extension of the kyoto climate agreements. finally, a number of cases concerning tax evasion and avoidance were successfully prosecuted during the italian semester: - the directive on the taxation of the parent company of a company and its subsidiaries in different countries; - the one on the automatic exchange of tax information. austria and luxembourg have also renounced banking secrecy. this is perhaps the area in which italy has been most successful in playing its role as mediator.
in writing. president renzi speaks to a half-empty chamber and this in itself is an eloquent and merciless assessment of the italian half-term by meps from all countries and all political affiliations. an empty house for an empty semester, that might be summed up. but what is politically more serious is the fact that renzi preaches well after having misbehaved. even today, in fact, he said the right thing that we have long maintained: the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration. it is a pity that italy has done nothing this semester to reverse the trend. in fact, in these very months, even with regard to the law on stability, renzi has been subjected to all the diktats from brussels. now that he's lecturing us about overcoming constraints, that's a little too much. more: president juncker himself has refuted this in real time by reiterating the berlin-brussels thesis (which i do not share in any way): the only acceptable flexibility is that which is already provided for in the existing treaties. one last point, for me and for all of italy, very important: it is grave and disappointing, even today, that renzi has remained silent on the moro case.
in writing. there were many who said that no great results could be achieved, given the unfavourable timing of the italian presidency. on the contrary, president renzi today recalled the many successes of this 'short semester'. despite a difficult institutional transition, the european agenda has returned to the topics of employment, infrastructure investment and flexibility. we have achieved a renewed commitment to policies for sustainable and inclusive growth, as also evidenced by the juncker plan, on which we as socialists and democrats have insisted and will continue to insist. the launch of operation triton marks the transition to a european immigration policy. the publication of the ttip negotiating mandate, the commitment to transparency. a common european position was defined in view of the lima conference, despite the resistance of some member states, including with the 2030 framework agreement on climate and energy. always perfect results, of course. but important steps towards a renewed political and not just economic agenda for the eu, not coincidentally also recognised by colleagues from other european countries and authoritatively by president juncker. this is the real demand of the european citizens who went to the polls in may: the commission has already made a number of proposals. a europe of values is a superpower of values.
in writing. president renzi's speech on the italian half-year budget was very disappointing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. it is also very serious that the dramatic issue of our moro people in india and the role that italy had to play in resolving this absurd captivity, which has now lasted for three years, has not been touched in the slightest. if i could give renzi a rating of one to ten, that would be a four!
in writing. "i will change europe in six months", this is renzi's promise at the beginning of the italian presidency. it could be the semester to turn the tide on years of devastating austerity and recession. it could have been an opportunity to build a common front against german hegemony in order to re-discuss unsustainable budgetary constraints that have proved extremely damaging to the economy. but the opportunity to dictate the european agenda in the interests of millions of citizens has been shamefully squandered, to the sole advantage of the northern countries and the great powers. not only was there no renegotiation of the fiscal compact, but renzi was also unable to close crucial files on which only the council's agreement was missing. as was the case with the "made in" project, which was blocked by germany and which was intended to help italian smes. or the financial transaction tax, opposed by the lobbies, which would curb speculation, freeing up $35 billion a year for the real economy and the fight against poverty. renzi closes with only the embarrassing juncker "investment" plan. a fund of eur 21 billion which should turn, by the effect of a mysterious multiplier, into eur 315 billion. probably the best symbol of what will be remembered as the semester of media bluff and missed opportunities.
in writing. today we conclude six months of the italian presidency of the european union, six months of great ambition and expectations, which unfortunately ended in nothing. in fact, italy has not succeeded in imposing its own line in any area, and this is a failure if we consider the enormous wealth and political strength that renzi had after the european elections in may. in europe, his july slogans have remained the same and nothing has been done to change the face of a sick union, according to the president of the council himself. these 'non-results' are the result of renzi's policy and probably of his inability to change the fate of the european union in any way, except through some particularly strong and decisive action. at this point, our initiative to ask italians what they think of the single currency, which is certainly doing us more harm than good, takes on even more value: if the italian politicians who had the chance to change this europe have not done so, there is nothing left but to leave it to the people to decide what the fate of what was a dream is now, instead of becoming a nightmare, to be.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today marks the end of a negotiating process which has lasted over four years and during which parliament has already expressed its position at first reading by a very large majority. this parliament had clearly indicated its willingness to introduce into the text of the agreement certain elements which it considered to be fundamental. the most important changes included the possibility for member states to act as public health and environmental risk managers when deciding whether or not to grow gm plants, to ban their use because of environmental and health hazards that efsa continues to ignore, to ensure the application of the polluter pays principle and more. these same amendments were confirmed at second reading and voted by a very large majority in the committee on the environment, which had also expressed its total opposition to the obscene proposal of the council that it could be expected that a member state would have to recognize biotech companies as the interlocutors with whom to agree national restrictions, and it was on these guidelines that we had given the green light to the trilogue. none of the points mentioned, however, survived the final negotiations, were removed from the text and ended up in a long list of unnecessary recitals. farms will be able to give their consent to the restriction of the geographical scope of the authorizations, but will not be required to provide reimbursement in the event of contamination. political agreements are the result of compromises where both sides give up some of their initial positions. in view of parliament's capitulation to the council's demands, we can only vote against the conclusion of this agreement.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, after four years of work we have finally reached agreement on a sensitive subject such as genetically modified organisms, which is of great interest to the public and is the subject of important scientific and political debates. i would first like to thank my colleague, the rapporteur, mrs ries, for the work she has done for parliament, as well as colleagues from all the other political groups who have helped to improve the text and who have worked effectively towards an agreement on this dossier. i also thank mr galletti for the italian presidency for the excellent cooperation during the negotiations which enabled us to reach agreement on a joint text by the end of last year with his support, mr commissioner. in my view, this compromise is the only possible agreement and, like any good compromise, it must leave the same bitter taste in everyone's mouth. parliament wanted to take forward certain positions on certain issues and it was unable to do so, it had to sacrifice them on the altar of an agreement and this is the only possible agreement. i think it should be remembered, however, that, apart from the various positions that can be taken on this matter, the main objective that we set ourselves as politicians and as legislators was to create a certain legal basis on this matter. in fact, in the face of a situation of uncertainty which had given rise to many appeals, we shall finally have legal certainty. i therefore urge all members to support this agreement, which i repeat was the best possible agreement of all those we have examined.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too think we have done a good job, a good compromise, certainly a step forward after four years of deadlock. of course, not everything is as we would have liked, but we are certainly building a text that takes us a step further and that is not comparable to the current situation. for those of us who, like myself, want to preserve our traditional products, who want to protect the biodiversity that is a richness of our land, who want to avoid product approval, this text is a step forward. the commissioner is right, europe defines the criteria, the safety net, the authorization methods and the national states finally have a certain legal basis for intervening. it is a step forward that allows us to overcome years of uncertainty and allows all those who care about - i repeat - the defence of typical products to finally be able to say: we did it! (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think the exact opposite is true: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs evi has just mentioned the questionable role played by efsa. we are convinced that the lack of confidence of the europeans in gmos and also in the control agencies is based precisely on the failure of this european agency to demonstrate impartiality and independence in its assessments, also and especially on gmos. efsa has never felt it should deny authorisations to any gmos, even when it was the biotech companies themselves who recognised the existence of statistically significant differences between genetically modified and conventional plants or, for example, in the physiological response of gm-fed animals compared to controls. on top of this are sad stories of conflicts of interest and disturbing episodes of revolving doors involving experts on the gm evaluation panels. and perhaps it is easier to understand the public's mistrust of gmos and of the efsa itself. for this reason, we believe that member states can and should be able to intervene by banning gmos, also because of the environmental and health risks that their cultivation and use pose. this directive does not go in that direction and we shall vote against it.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms on their territory. the five star movement has been strongly opposed because the text adopted today will make it easier to obtain authorization at community level and will therefore give the green light to gm crops in member states which so wish. that is why we voted against it, together with our colleagues from the greens and the eldr groups.
in writing. today we are completing a piece of legislation of great importance to the citizens of europe. we all know how polarizing the issue of gmos is and how much concern it is creating in the public. it was not obvious that an agreement could be reached after five years of negotiations. we now have a certain regulatory framework, based on the fundamental principles of freedom of choice and scientific security. the final say on the entry and production of gmos now rests with the member states: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of personal data are respected. the role of the member states in introducing control measures for contamination zones and coexistence between border countries remains crucial now, when the new legislation is being implemented from next spring. health protection, consumer protection and the promotion of local products are some of the principles on which europe bases its sustainability model: today we are making a concrete and important gesture to strengthen europe as a place of quality and food security.
in writing. i voted in favour of this agreement which provides for the possibility for eu tuna vessels and fishing vessels to fish in the waters of the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe.
in writing. — i supported the fishing partnership between the eu and são tomé and príncipe because i consider it important to help one of the main sectors of the country’s economy.
in writing. i voted in favour. the agreement provides for the possibility for our tuna vessels and fishing boats to fish in their waters. increases the economic counterpart compared to the previous agreement.
in writing. the first fisheries agreement between the eu and são tomé and príncipe was concluded in 1984. since then, eight protocols have been implemented, two of them under the fisheries partnership agreement. however, the results achieved so far in the field of sectoral cooperation are very poor. the agreement in question, in combination with other development support instruments such as the european development fund, should promote the sustainable development of são tomé and príncipe's fisheries sector, as well as related industries and activities. i voted in favour of this recommendation today to ask the european commission to take the necessary measures, including the review and deepening of the sectoral support component of the agreement, to ensure a real reversal of the path followed over the last twenty years and to ensure maximum commitment to the verification of the principles essential for the correct use of aid.
in writing. we vote in favour of the conclusion of this agreement, which guarantees support for são toméan fishermen for another four years and at the same time allows european vessels to operate in their territorial waters.
in writing. on the basis of the previous agreement (2011-2014) and the agreement just concluded between the european union on the one hand and sao tome and principe on the other, i vote in favour. this agreement will further strengthen economic and trade relations and, above all, will allow the exploitation of marine resources to the benefit of the local population.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe for two reasons. first of all, this agreement has the advantage of preserving european fisheries resources and at the same time developing partnership agreements with third countries, thus leading to an expansion of european diplomatic relations. secondly, the economic impact is entirely proportional to the benefits europe has received, especially when one considers that, despite the reduction in the number of vessels allowed to fish from 40 to 34, the number of purse seiners, the type of vessel that has benefited most from the use of fishing opportunities, has remained unchanged.
in writing. the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe is part of the network of tuna fisheries agreements in west africa and allows eu vessels to operate in that country's waters. i voted in favour because i believe that the european commission must take the necessary measures to ensure that the path followed over the last 20 years is reversed. i am voting in favour because i believe that the european commission should do more to ensure that the principles which are essential for the proper use of aid are respected, in accordance with the sovereignty and the legitimate choices and priorities of são tomé and príncipe.
in writing. i have given my support to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe. the new protocol, which will run for four years, will allow 34 eu vessels to fish in return for an annual financial contribution of eur 710 000 for the first three years and eur 675 000 for the fourth year. the agreement also provides for eur 325 000 of the european financial contribution to be allocated to support the sectoral policy of são tomé and príncipe.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the agreement providing for the possibility for eu tuna vessels and fishing vessels to fish in the waters of the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe. the economic counterpart is increased compared to the previous agreement but the increased fishing opportunities are given priority in the evaluation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation because i believe that agreements, cooperation and negotiations, as well as purely economic interests, such as the exploitation of resources, are an opportunity for growth and maturity both for the european union's external relations network and for the countries with which it is interacting. the agreement with são tomé and príncipe is one of those moments, for our fishing vessels which are thus able to fish in other seas, but above all for the small island which is our partner in this agreement. i voted in favour of this agreement, but i would like to stress that european commitment must go far beyond mere partnership in the fisheries sector. europe has a duty to ensure that the financial contribution, and in particular the 325,000 for sector policy, is used by são tomé and príncipe to improve the reliability of catches, the quality of fisheries and the development of infrastructure. the eu-são tomé and príncipe agreement has been in place for 30 years now, and with effective policies, many aspects of the sector could have changed. it is not too late to start.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of mr joao ferreira's report because i consider the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and são tomé and príncipe to be an opportunity for our economy. the agreement allows all community vessels to fish for tuna in west african waters.
in writing. i voted in favour of the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and são tomé and príncipe. the agreement aims to promote and strengthen cooperation between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe, so as to contribute to a genuine and sustainable recovery of são tomé and príncipe's fisheries sector and related industries and activities.
in writing. i have expressed my agreement with the report signed by mr ferreira, because i believe that the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe is a source of benefit for the whole community industry. the agreement provides for the european union to fish for tuna in west africa and at the same time allows community vessels to operate in the waters of west africa. i also believe that the financial criteria it sets out are sufficiently acceptable and rational.
in writing. we support the conclusion of this protocol, but consider it essential that the agreement in question be implemented through the use of other specific support instruments, such as the european development fund, so that it can contribute to a genuine and sustainable recovery of são tomé and príncipe's fisheries sector and its related industries and activities. our ultimate goal remains to help the country exploit its natural resources. we therefore believe that the european commission should do more to ensure that aid is used correctly and to improve the quantity and reliability of information on catches and, in general, on the state of conservation of fishery resources. the monitoring capacity of the authorities in charge of the exclusive economic zone will also need to be verified and strengthened, and investment will need to be encouraged to support the development of infrastructure in the sector.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by mr ferreira on the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and sao tome and principe on tuna fishing in west africa and the authorisation of our vessels to operate in that country. this agreement will benefit both our vessels, which will be able to continue fishing in those waters, and são tomé and príncipe, which will benefit from the financial compensation, which will be useful above all in supporting its sectoral policies.
in writing. whereas the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe is part of the network of tuna fisheries agreements in west africa and allows eu vessels to operate in that country's waters; whereas a new protocol entered into force in may 2014 for a period of four years, allowing 34 eu vessels to fish; the eu and são tomé and príncipe have expressed satisfaction at the conclusion of the new four-year protocol, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe because it is in the same category as the tuna fisheries agreements in west africa and is a renewal with some amendments of the previous protocol which had produced satisfactory results. as we know, it allows eu vessels to operate in são tomé and príncipe's territorial waters with a substantial fleet of vessels. the conclusion of the agreement, together with other instruments, contributes to the enhancement of the development of são tomé and príncipe's fisheries and related activities, allowing for the sustainable exploitation of its natural resources. i regret, however, that the results achieved so far in the field of sectoral cooperation are poor and i hope that the european commission will engage constructively in verifying the principles essential for the correct use of the aid given, always with respect for the sovereignty of são tomé and príncipe. i also hope that the proposal to provide an annual report to parliament on the results of the multiannual sectoral programme on compliance with the obligation to declare catches will be accepted.
in writing. - i decided to vote in favour of the agreement because it allows eu tuna vessels and fishing vessels to fish in their waters. the economic counterpart is increased compared to the previous agreement, but overall i consider the possibility of operating in those waters to be a priority.
in writing. in the recommendation adopted today, i have decided to support the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the partnership agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe. 28 purse seiners and 6 surface longliners flying the flag of an eu member state will be allowed to fish in são toméan waters in accordance with the best available scientific advice and the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat). the payment of the financial contribution by the european union will certainly represent significant aid to the republic of são tomé and príncipe in order to encourage a more responsible exploitation of fisheries resources, to promote a sustainable fisheries policy and to strengthen the surveillance, control and fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. i abstained from voting on this recommendation which does not deal sufficiently clearly and articulately with the implications of the agreement.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the eu-seychelles agreement because i consider access for fishing vessels to the waters of mayotte to be important.
in writing. i abstained. the stakes for the eu are negligible.
in writing. today i voted in favour of the agreement between the european union and the republic of seychelles on access for vessels flying the flag of seychelles to the waters and marine biological resources of mayotte. the agreement is unique in that it allows a third country to fish for tuna in european waters for the first time. i voted in favour of the agreement in question because it is mutually beneficial, because it benefits both the economic development of mayotte and that of the seychelles and because it respects the rules of the common fisheries policy. in addition, given the migratory nature of tuna and the existing agreement allowing european union vessels to fish in seychelles' waters, i consider this agreement important as it goes towards further strengthening seychelles' status as the eu's most important partner in that region.
in writing. the seychelles is the european union's most important partner in the indian ocean. this agreement allows seychelles vessels to fish in the exclusive economic zone of mayotte (france).
in writing. i voted in favour of this agreement, which i believe represents a good example of development cooperation. as i studied the papers, the old saying came to mind that to satisfy a man's hunger you must give him a fish, but if you want to feed him you must teach him to fish. there you go. the eu enables less developed countries to have job opportunities that are mainly directed at the local population and conditional on respect for european standards and values. congratulations to the colleagues who negotiated the deal.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the republic of seychelles because, after the territory of mayotte has acquired the status of an outermost region of the european union, the agreement reached between the european commission and seychelles, our main partner in the sustainable tuna fishery in the indian ocean, is beneficial for both parties. in fact, given the undoubted economic benefits and the preservation of trade relations between the seychelles and the territory of mayotte which existed prior to the latter's entry into the eez, the agreement contains important safeguard clauses which protect the interests of the parties in the event of a serious and manifest breach of the commitments entered into and provides for an interim review clause which will allow the parties to assess the effectiveness of the agreement in the medium term.
in writing. this agreement allows vessels flying the flag of seychelles to fish for highly migratory species in accordance with the rules of the indian ocean tuna commission (iotc). i voted in favour of the agreement in question because it is mutually beneficial, it is beneficial to the economic development of mayotte and the seychelles and it respects the rules of the common fisheries policy and the iotc on conservation of the resource.
in writing. on 1 january 2014, the territory of mayotte acquired the status of an outermost region of the european union and consequently the exclusive economic zone (eez) of mayotte became an integral part of the union waters. i voted in favour of the agreement between the republic of seychelles and the european union because it will allow a limited number of vessels flying the flag of seychelles to fish in the mayotte eez for a period of six years, in compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy. in exchange for the fishing authorization, the seychelles' shipowners will pay fees which will be collected by france on behalf of the european union and redistributed to mayotte, which will be used to develop the island's port infrastructure. the agreement is of strategic importance because it allows the european union to maintain its special relationship with the republic of seychelles, our most important partner in the region.
in writing. this recommendation refers to the agreement with the seychelles, allowing their vessels to fish in the waters of the outermost region of mayotte. i shall abstain because it is not clear what the advantage is between local shipowners in eu jurisdiction and the other party.
in writing. i voted in favour of this agreement because it seems normal and natural that neighbouring islands in the indian ocean should reach fisheries trade agreements which benefit the interests of all parties involved. it is certainly strange that the european union should have the negotiating power over mayotte, which is so far away. yet it is mayotte that gives the union the opportunity to conclude agreements in the indian ocean and to forge relations with important partners such as the seychelles. the possibility of seychelles vessels fishing in mayotte's waters certainly brings benefits to mayotte, but it must itself determine this. although it is represented in this case by the european union and france, to which it belongs, we must not for one second underestimate or ignore, or take into account, the population, the fishermen and the social partners of the island concerned by the agreement. the eu's exclusive competence in the conservation of species must not mean that local communities lose their voice.
in writing. - i supported the report by the cadec chairman because i believe that the agreement sets out rules which are beneficial for both the eu and seychelles, contributing to economic development in the light of the rules in force on the common fisheries policy and the indian ocean tuna commission (iotc). the agreement provides for eight tuna-fishing vessels with gillnets and two support vessels flying the flag of seychelles to have access to the 24- to 100-mile zone for a renewable period of six years. the zone between 0 and 24 miles shall continue to be reserved for local fisheries in mayotte.
in writing. supports the agreement between the european union and the republic of seychelles on access for vessels flying the flag of seychelles to mayotte waters. this agreement benefits the economic development of mayotte and the seychelles and is in accordance with the rules of the common fisheries policy and the iotc on the conservation of resources.
in writing. the eu-republic of seychelles fisheries relations are governed by a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement (sfp). on 3 april 2014, a new agreement was signed between the parties. it defines the terms for access by vessels flying the flag of seychelles to the waters and marine biological resources of mayotte. i agree with the above-mentioned agreement, because i believe that it lays down rules which are beneficial to both parties. it will contribute to the economic development of mayotte and the seychelles without undermining the existing rules on the common fisheries policy.
in writing. following the acquisition, as of 1 january 2014, of the status of an outermost region of the european union, the exclusive economic zone (eez) of mayotte is now an integral part of the union's waters and, therefore, it is the responsibility of the relevant community authorities not only to manage fisheries resources but also to negotiate and monitor any bilateral agreements signed. in this connection, the european parliament is called upon to express an opinion on the agreement in question, which in this case can only be favourable to us, since it is beneficial to both parties: the commission considers that the proposed measure is in line with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and the ctoi in terms of conservation of resources. although we do not have specific powers to amend the agreement, we would like to stress today the need to involve mayotte's fishermen in the meetings of the joint committee set up by this agreement and to ensure their participation in all stages of its implementation, as well as to provide for structural investment and administrative control frameworks to promote the sustainable development of the fishing and processing sectors on the island.
in writing. i vote in favour of the eu-seychelles agreement for access by vessels flying the flag of the seychelles to the waters and marine biological resources of mayotte under the jurisdiction of the european union, subject to the rules of the common fisheries policy. this agreement is important both because seychelles is the eu's main partner in the indian ocean, and also because of the strategic importance of the migratory nature of tuna stocks. the agreement will also consolidate and maintain the special relations which the european union will have with the republic of seychelles.
in writing. whereas the relations between the european union and the republic of seychelles in the fisheries sector are governed by a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement (sfp); whereas the agreement in question concerns access for vessels flying the flag of seychelles to the waters and marine biological resources of mayotte, the territory of which has acquired the status of an outermost region of the european union; i am therefore voting in favour of this agreement, since it allows vessels flying the flag of seychelles to fish for highly migratory species in compliance with the rules of the indian ocean tuna commission (iotc).
in writing. fisheries relations between the eu and the republic of seychelles are governed by the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement (sfpa) which entered into force in 2003 and has been renewed twice. i remember how this is the most important agreement the eu has in the indian ocean, and consequently the seychelles are the eu's main partner in the region. the agreement allows vessels flying the flag of seychelles to have access to the waters and marine biological resources of mayotte, which has the status of an outermost region of the eu. it is clear that this agreement is exceptional in that it allows vessels from a third country to fish in european territorial waters. the reason why the agreement was promoted, and i am in favour of it, is to limit the number of seychelles vessels fishing in mayotte's waters, in accordance with the rules of the common fisheries policy. this is to protect tuna stocks because of their migratory nature. i am also reassured that the agreement includes a mid-term review clause which will allow the effectiveness of the agreement to be assessed three years after its entry into force.
in writing. - i decided to vote in favour because the recommendation allows the agreement with the seychelles to be respected, allowing their vessels to fish in the waters of the outermost region of mayotte and bringing a benefit to local shipowners resident in an area under eu jurisdiction.
in writing. with today's vote we have given our consent to the first 'access agreement' allowing third country vessels to fish in european waters. this will allow a limited number of vessels flying the flag of seychelles (8 tuna seiners and 2 support vessels) to continue fishing in mayotte's waters for a period of six years, in compliance with european rules on the common fisheries policy. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the agreement can bring benefits not only to seychelles but also to the economic development of mayotte. the fees charged for the issuing of licences will enable this outermost region of europe to respond effectively to the sectoral needs of the island in terms of port infrastructure, landing, control and placing products on the market.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the protocol in order to permit a dialogue with tunisia regarding the accession of new members to the eu.
in writing. i abstained. the vote is purely technical and calls for the inclusion of the bulgarian and romanian languages in the agreement following the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu.
in writing. this agreement amends the previous protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement to take due account of the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union.
in writing. it was an easy decision to vote in favour of this protocol. this is an almost automatic act, given the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu as early as 2007. i regret, however, the delay in this decision, given that these two countries joined eight years ago. i hope croatia's time is less.
in writing. i voted in favour of the association agreements concluded under the euro-mediterranean partnership, which are intended to promote interregional cooperation between the mediterranean partner countries as a factor of peace and stability and of economic and social development. the accession of the countries of eastern europe, and in particular bulgaria and romania, to the eu has made it necessary to draw up new association agreements which take account of the current geopolitical and economic interests of the 'new europe'.
in writing. this purely technical protocol calls for the inclusion of the bulgarian and romanian languages in the agreement following the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu. but i do not fully support the protocol, because it leaves the current agreement on trade between tunisia and the eu unchanged.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report by mr elmar brok, because it supports the approval of an agreement which i believe is necessary between the ec and tunisia. the participation of new member states of the european union in the euro-mediterranean agreement is formalised by a protocol to the council agreement, signed on behalf of the european union, with the country concerned, which in this case is tunisia.
in writing. favourable to the agreement on the ec-tunisia euro-mediterranean protocol establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of tunisia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union
in writing. the participation of new eu members in the euro-mediterranean agreement is formalised by a protocol to the agreement which the council, on behalf of the european union, signs with the country concerned, in this case tunisia. i voted in favour of the brok report because it supports the adoption of an agreement which i believe is absolutely necessary.
in writing. i voted in favour of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of tunisia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union, which, as new members, need this protocol in order to join.
in writing. in view of the work done by the rapporteur and the positions discussed, i give my full confidence in the votes.
in writing. in this case, the conclusion of the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the eu and its member states and the republic of tunisia is a necessary step in view of the subsequent accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union (accession in 2007). the recommendation of parliament's committee on foreign affairs was also in favour of the council's proposal for a decision.
in writing. - i have decided to vote against because this protocol will keep the current agreement on trade between tunisia and the european union unchanged.
in writing. i voted against this text. the european parliament already has sufficient expertise, resources and tools within its own institution to be able to fully analyse the level of implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport.
in writing. the consultation of the economic and social committee is a step forward in the stabilisation of the european strategy for more sustainable mobility to ensure compliance with the union's obligations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. we are happy to support progress in this direction.
in writing. i have taken note of the opinion of the european economic and social committee on the white paper on transport. i think it is important to involve stakeholders more in european decisions, both to bring europe closer to the citizens and to make decisions that are more legitimate. i would also like to see greater transparency in the future from the european economic and social committee, so that the citizens can see it as a valuable partner in the european legislative process.
in writing. the european commission's white paper on transport presents the eu's roadmap towards a single european area with reference to competitiveness and sustainability. the white paper published in 2011 sets ten targets to achieve the 60% greenhouse gas emissions reduction target. it has aspects which can be shared, such as the gradual abandonment of cars powered by traditional fuels until they are completely phased out, the use of means of transport with a lower environmental impact, and the improvement of passenger safety. at the same time, however, there are negative aspects such as the ten-t networks and the use of large-scale projects and transnational corridors. it was decided to prepare an own-initiative report to assess the implementation of the white paper on transport with regard to detection and pathways to sustainable mobility. i voted in favour of asking the european economic and social committee to be consulted on this matter. under rule 137 of parliament's rules of procedure, parliament can ask the economic and social committee to be consulted on general matters or on specific points, as in this case.
in writing. consultation of the european economic and social committee is in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which expressly provides for it on occasions such as this. the opinions of the economic and social committee on the report of the ini implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport: surveys and pathways to sustainable mobility will subsequently be examined by the tran committee, of which i am a member, as the committee responsible for the subject.
in writing. i voted in favour of this consultation as i find the opinion of the economic and social committee on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport useful. an additional opinion that also looks at the strictly economic aspects of such an important issue as sustainable mobility can only be of benefit to all european citizens.
in writing. - in 2011, the commission adopted the white paper on transport, with the aim of outlining a competitive system that can increase mobility, remove the main obstacles in urban areas and foster growth and jobs, while ensuring sustainability. among the various ambitious targets, there was also the reduction of both europe's dependence on oil imports and carbon emissions from transport (a reduction expected to reach 60% by 2050), as well as the withdrawal of traditional fuel cars from the city market by 2050, and the switch, by 2050, of more than 50% of goods from road transport to alternative, efficient and green means. the committee on transport is preparing a report to assess the implementation of the measures contained in the white paper, and i support the request to consult the economic and social committee on this because i believe it is essential to listen to the voice of the associations representing the categories and the citizens, who are better aware than any other body of the needs of the actors involved and of the population in general. the findings will undoubtedly be of great use in making the report more complete and effective.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the cultivation of gmos is still a subject of heated debate, not only between member states but also within the countries of the european union, where public opinion is still sharply divided, especially because the effects on the health of the citizens are still unclear. the text voted today comes after three years of negotiations: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their opinions on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. states are given a free choice based not only on the assessment of environmental risk and the effects of crops on the health of citizens, but also on consideration of socioeconomic impact and agricultural policy considerations. i therefore believe that the compromise is in the right direction, ensuring greater protection of the health of the citizens, which is why i voted in favour.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we voted with great conviction on this text, which we have been waiting for for almost four years and which allows member states to restrict or prohibit transgenic cultivation in their national territory. i believe that it is essential to have applied the principle of subsidiarity to such a sensitive issue as environmental safety and security. the broad support that this text has received from the various parliamentary groups once again underlines that parliament is an institution sensitive to the demands of the citizens, who have once again stated forcefully that they want to preserve the foundations of a healthy, safe and quality agriculture. there is only one regret that the question of financial responsibility was left out of the text. i think we have to do more on this, because it is crucial, in my view, to consider the economic damage that can be caused by gm crops to the surrounding crops and it is also crucial to establish who has to pay for the damage that is caused.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we all know how much the debate on gmos is heating up, but this fervour is confusing public opinion, which we know is for the most part - about 58% - against gmos. from an oversimplification, two contradictory positions seem to emerge: the scientific one, which belongs to the so-called bad guys, those who are in favour of gmos; the emotional one, the good ones, all those who are against gmo cultivation because they're actually afraid. in fact, it is the scientific world that is not in agreement on this subject: unfortunately, the lack of a single answer from scientists has inevitably led to the development of an ideological debate, which has marginalized the scientific aspect and thus limited the important factor of research. each of us in this house will be helping to encourage research and debate in our own countries to make responsible and profitable choices. the agreement reached is a more than balanced agreement, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. the plenary today voted on a text on the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the use of gmos. the legislative text seems to give full power to the member states to decide whether to restrict or even prohibit this type of cultivation on their national territory. unfortunately, that is not the case. important points which were long negotiated and voted on by a large majority in the envi committee were not included in the new text. among these, the obligation to insure gm crops to cover any compensation in case of contamination of conventional or organic crops. instead, clauses have been inserted which give biotech companies the opportunity to negotiate directly with national governments, who will be under tremendous pressure. the latter will not be able to use specific national environmental impacts in the grounds for calls which do not give the same result as the environmental impact conducted by efsa (european food safety authority). the member state may only block the cultivation for socioeconomic reasons. we believe that the question of gmos is primarily concerned with the health of the public and only secondarily with the economic aspects. our delegation voted against this.
in writing. the compromise text reached between parliament and the council, after almost four years of debate, introduces for the first time in european legislation a set of procedures to allow a member state to ban a gmo on its territory, even if it has been authorised in the eu. this decision puts the choices of the european citizens at the centre. member states will have the possibility to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their national territory for reasons other than those relating to the environmental risk identified by efsa. the entry into force of this directive also sought to create a transparent mechanism and a sound legal basis which could avoid the numerous cases of litigation brought before the court of justice of the european union in recent years on the authorisation of a gmo. for these reasons i voted in favour of the text of the agreement.
in writing. - i voted against the dossier on the cultivation of gmos in europe because i believe that the mechanism which gives the member states the right to prohibit cultivation, which is in itself a positive thing, is far-reaching and remains 'sub judice' in relation to the commission's wishes; only time will tell how far the free choice of european citizens on gmos will be respected. the danger today is that behind this supposed freedom there is a ruse which in fact makes it possible to 'break the dam' of their entry into the community territory, to the detriment of biodiversity and europe's rich varietal heritage.
in writing. i voted against this proposal for a directive because i believe that it was a wasted opportunity for the european union to protect itself definitively from the pressure of the large multinational companies of agricultural microtechnologies (such as the monsanto company, owner of mon810 maize, which is already grown in 5 european states). under the previous rule, member states could veto gmo crops, invoking health and environmental safeguards, without being regularly dragged before the court of justice of the european union. the new directive was also intended to provide member states with greater protection, but this objective has not been achieved. the directive does not have a fixed time-limit for its application and farms will not be required to provide reimbursement in the event of contamination. the measure was born with the best of intentions, but then, in its legislative process, it bowed to the council's demands until it lost its legal force, leaving the member states once again exposed to the influence of multinational companies that follow market logic, rather than the common sense and good of european citizens.
in writing. — i supported giving member states this possibility because i believe it is of fundamental importance that every sovereign state should be able to control the cultivation of products that may harm the health of its citizens.
in writing. i voted against. the measure does not contain sufficient safeguards to guarantee consumers and farmers. we must protect traditional agriculture rather than the usual multinationals in this sector.
in writing. i voted today in favour of the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms (gmos) on their territory. almost five years after the european commission's original proposal, thanks also to the work of the italian presidency, the eu institutions have finally reached an important agreement on this issue. i think that parliament and in particular the envi committee have been able to make a positive impact on the text we have adopted. i refer, for example, to the fact that member states where the cultivation of gmos is permitted will be obliged to adopt coexistence measures for border areas to avoid contamination of traditional crops in neighbouring countries, and to the important strengthening of the rules on risk assessment by the european food safety authority prior to the placing on the market of gmos. i think that on other points, such as the environmental reasons which member states can invoke to prohibit the cultivation of gmos, a stronger and more ambitious text could have been adopted. however, given the difficulty with which this agreement was reached after more than four years, i have decided to vote in favour of the text.
in writing. we vote against this resolution which makes it easier to authorise gm crops in the member states. the quality of food in europe is being seriously affected by the adoption of this text.
in writing. the cultivation of gmos in europe is a subject that has always left me rather puzzled: the scientific studies are not in agreement, but we are increasingly consuming products from genetically modified plants, either directly or indirectly. in this particular case, i believe that the compromise reached safeguards the different national sensitivities, although at the expense of the internal market: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to see a stronger europe only in those areas where there is room for more effective policies, but less present where the differences are deep.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive on gmos because it is intended to give member states greater freedom to restrict or prohibit their cultivation. more specifically, the two levels of intervention granted to the member states, i.e. at the authorisation stage or after that stage provided that there are adequate grounds, allow them to carry out a 360-degree assessment since they are not bound by any time limit. the proposed text also provides a sound legal basis without, however, interfering with the free movement of gmos, creating conflicts within the world trade organisation or calling into question the expertise and scientific assessments of efsa.
in writing. the resolution aims to relieve member states of the need to provide new scientific data to support any ban on the cultivation of gmos introduced at national level. in return, the commission hopes to achieve a majority in the committee where the new authorization proposals are discussed. i voted against this resolution because the grounds on which gmo cultivation can be banned are very weak from a legal point of view and the enactment of extended bans on gmo groups could make the measures even less defensible in the event of an appeal to the wto or the court of justice of the european union. i vote against because the legal instrument adopted at the end of the negotiations is a directive, but it does not contain any obligations for member states to transpose it. it also remains to be clarified from a legal point of view whether and how the measures will be possible to implement without updating national legislation with appropriate transposition acts.
in writing. the text adopted represents an important step forward, as it introduces clearer rules and greater legal certainty for all matters relating to the cultivation of genetically modified crops. at the same time, however, it gives member states greater flexibility in choosing whether to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory. i believe that europe must be at the forefront of the fight for the diversity of traditional crops and to minimise the risks of genetically modified crops. only in this way, by being the first to set clear guidelines, can we be credible when we come to the international trade tables (especially ttip) to defend and claim the quality and uniqueness of our products.
in writing. i voted against the final text on the agreement reached on gmo cultivation, because the only elements added by parliament were the obligation to draw up coexistence plans, but, as we also suggested, limited to countries where gmo cultivation takes place, the possibility of banning groups of gmos and a list of conditions on the basis of which national bans can be established, which does not contain any reference to possible environmental impacts. the final text, however, provides that member states may decide whether to require companies to restrict the geographical scope of the authorisations under assessment or to impose unilateral bans. while this represents an improvement on the link between the two procedures in the council text, it will give firms the power to adopt different behaviour depending on whether the member state decides to involve them in the process or not. in addition, the grounds on which gmo cultivation may be banned are very weak from a legal point of view and the issuing of extended bans on groups of gmos could make the measures even less defensible in the event of an appeal to the wto or the court of justice of the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive on the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos, as the new text, the result of a significant compromise between parliament and the council, promoted by the italian presidency, has the merit of providing greater legal certainty to a subject which deserves to be approached with particular caution with the ultimate objective of consumer protection. the agreement gives eu member states ample scope to ban the cultivation of gmos authorised at european level in all or part of their national territory. each country will therefore be free to decide - without providing further reasons - to ban gmo crops also for reasons that go beyond the scientific assessments already under the responsibility of efsa: i refer in particular to the possibility of invoking agricultural and environmental policy objectives, land use and urban planning reasons, and the possible socioeconomic and public policy impact. i also think it is important to provide for mandatory coexistence measures which will protect traditional crops from the risk of crossborder contamination with gmos grown in neighbouring countries.
in writing. i supported the agreement reached between the council, commission and parliament on the reform of the gmo directive. the agreement provides for the right of member states to prohibit the cultivation of gm seeds on their territory for economic and agricultural reasons. the directive also provides that states which decide to use gmos must pay particular attention to preventing crossborder contamination with neighbouring countries.
in writing. i am voting against this agreement which does not protect consumers and does not give member states the right to make decisions on such a sensitive issue.
in writing. the proposal to amend the directive is another example of the liberal culture which, in defiance of the protection of the environment and the health of citizens, does not want to accept any real regulation that limits or prevents the cultivation of gmos with objective criteria and public authorisation and control instruments. the terms of this proposed bad compromise are clear: the commission proposes to vote on a comprehensive mediation text of all the amendments negotiated with the council in three months, after the council for 3 years (!!) from 2011 to june 2014 had not been able or did not want to reach an agreement with a common position among the member states on gmo cultivation. we are here to reiterate our opposition to a proposal which actually reduces the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory, rather than increasing it. we also note that the 'liability' clause, the polluter pays clause, which the ep had sought and obtained in its text in order to oblige the producer with gmos, even if authorised, to be responsible and to have to remedy accidental contamination on non-gmo fields and crops, has also disappeared from the final text.
in writing. with today's vote in the european parliament on the reform of the gmo directive, we have finally established the right of member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms on their national territory. this is also at the expense of an authorization granted at european level by the food safety agency. in the immediate future, therefore, italy may decide to say no to gm crops on its territory as a result of socioeconomic considerations, land use, land planning, transgenic contamination of other crops, and mere agricultural and environmental policy choices. this decision is a great achievement for our country, which has always been committed to a quality and environmentally friendly agri-food model. the only thing left to do is to activate the national transposition procedures without delay.
in writing. - after four years of negotiations, we have managed to reach a difficult agreement on the sensitive issue of gmos. it recognises the sovereignty and autonomy of each member state as regards the possibility, in full respect of the principle of subsidiarity, of prohibiting or restricting, in all or part of their territory, the cultivation of gmos which have been authorised or are under the authorisation procedure at european level. this choice can be made on the basis of strict criteria, not in conflict with the health and environmental risk assessment carried out by efsa, thus protecting the needs of citizens, consumers and individual states. i would like to thank the rapporteur, the colleagues who have worked on this dossier and minister galletti for the spirit of cooperation which has enabled us to reach the best possible agreement under all the circumstances.
in writing. favourable to the directive 'the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms gmos - on their territory'. the main objective of this amendment is to enable individual member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of crops containing genetically modified organisms (gmos) in all or part of their territory so that national and local specificities can be taken into account. the new text, which introduces clear rules compared with the 2001 directive, contributes to greater legal certainty on the possibility for each member state to decide whether to ban or restrict gm crops even if they are allowed in the union. more than four years after the european commission's original proposal, the european union has finally reached a major agreement on this issue
in writing. the purpose of the proposal is to provide member states with a sound legal basis, establishing criteria for restricting or prohibiting the cultivation of genetically modified organisms (gmos) within their territories. the original draft legislation, drawn up by the european commission, dates back to july 2010. after four years, thanks to a considerable joint effort by parliament and the council, an agreement has finally been reached. my support for the report signed by mr ries is based on the conviction that the negotiated compromise is the only possible one. member states have very different views on the cultivation of gmos. i therefore think it is right that they should be granted autonomy of decision and of judgment in this area.
in writing. this parliament has called on us today to take a decision on the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms on their territories. my vote on this measure is against it. the opposite is true, because the good intentions of this agreement are in contradiction with the way in which europe is actually acting. i think it is useless to give this possibility to individual countries when at the same time the eu is about to conclude trade agreements covering agricultural products with countries such as the united states and others. it is useless to accept this paradox, because we will still have the products of our land, but they will have to resist the competition from the gmo products that will be invading europe after the conclusion of agreements such as ttip. it is useless to open the door to large multinationals which will exploit the availability of countries which have not imposed the ban, creating once again a gap - especially economic - between the eu countries. i therefore ask you to open your eyes and put the health of citizens and the protection of businesses that ensure environmentally sustainable agriculture at the top of your agenda.
in writing. we welcome this recommendation, firstly because it allows us to overcome the four-year deadlock caused by the disagreement between pro- and anti-gmo member states, but also because the main objective of this legislative amendment is precisely to give greater flexibility and legal certainty. these new rules provide for greater discretion for member states to restrict or prohibit gmos on their territory for reasons other than those arising from efsa's scientific assessments, such as environmental reasons such as the protection of biodiversity or the conservation of habitats and ecosystems. we consider it important, for the protection of european consumers, to provide for an obligation for the member states not only to ensure that other products are not contaminated, but above all to avoid cross-border contamination with neighbouring countries, as requested and supported by certain trade associations of european farmers. we also call for new measures to ensure that the procedure for restricting or prohibiting the cultivation of gmos in europe is transparent and publicised.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr pimenta. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. we need more flexibility and autonomy in this area, and this is very much felt by our citizens who are increasingly opposed to this type of food, considering it unsafe for future generations.
in writing. whereas on 23 july the 28 environment ministers adopted the council's position on the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms (gmos) on their territory; whereas the proposal is to amend directive 2001/18/ec on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms by inserting a new article extending the rights of member states to justify legally a national or regional ban on the cultivation of a gmo; i am therefore in favour of the amendment, since the main objective of this amendment to the legislative framework is to give greater flexibility and legal certainty to member states wishing to ban the cultivation of gmos authorised at european level in all or part of their territory.
in writing. the new rules that parliament has approved to regulate the cultivation of genetically modified organisms are a good compromise that leaves a wide margin of discretion to member states in their decision to allow or not to allow such cultivation. this reform is a major step forward in terms of clarity and legal certainty: the central role of the food safety agency is maintained and strengthened, while the list of grounds on which member states may prohibit such crops is extended. another important step which our group has fought for is the strict new rules to protect areas that choose not to grow gmos and thus avoid cross-crop contamination. i therefore voted in favour of this reform because i think it is a good compromise on a very delicate subject on which it is not easy to reach agreement among the many opinions on the subject. the new directive will enable those who do not wish to grow gmos to do so without risk of contamination in a context of clarity and transparency which has been lacking until now.
in writing. i am in favour of amending directive 2001/18/ec to extend the rights of member states to issue a national or regional ban on the cultivation of a gmo. it is important that the placing on the market of gmos is only allowed after an authorisation has been granted on the basis of a scientific assessment of the risks to human and animal health and the environment even if imports of gmos for animal feed do not fall within the scope of this regulation. i also agree with what president junckers of the european commission has said about the need to review the legislation applicable to the authorization of genetically modified organisms and that it is unusual under the current rules for the commission to be legally obliged to authorise the import and processing of new organisms even when a clear majority of member states are opposed to it. the main objective of the amendment of the legislative framework is to give more legal power to member states wishing to ban/limit the cultivation of gmos authorised at european level in all or part of their territory.
in writing. after four years, parliament has finally voted on a recommendation providing benchmarks for the cultivation of gm products. i voted in favour of this recommendation not so much because i think it is the best recommendation ever but because it is the best recommendation that could be made at the moment. i think that leaving it to the member states to choose whether to prohibit or restrict the cultivation of gmos on the basis of specific grounds is a good compromise to start with.
in writing. - i decided to vote against because the measure is not aimed at protecting farmers but the usual multinationals in the sector.
in writing. the agreement on gmos, hailed by the italian presidency as a great success, hides serious pitfalls for those countries that really want to protect their crops. i did not vote for the agreement because it leaves too much of a role for biotechnology multinationals, allowing them to adopt different behaviours depending on whether or not they are faced with a state favourable to gmo crops. the agreement provides for states which prohibit gm crops to follow the conciliation procedure with the applicant farms, thus involving them in the decision-making process. secondly, this agreement makes the bans issued by the member states weaker and less defensible in the event of an appeal to the wto or the court of justice of the european union. finally, there are no compensation mechanisms for any environmental damage caused by gm crops. i voted in favour of the amendments tabled by m5s, gue and the greens to ensure that coexistence plans are drawn up in countries where gm crops are grown. this instrument, if used properly, would also make it very difficult to test gmos in the absence of safeguard measures such as containment and cover to prevent pollination.
in writing. - the outcome of the trilogy was disappointing to say the least. a handful of key elements put forward by parliament were upheld, including the requirement to draw up coexistence plans (but limited to countries where gm crops are grown) and the possibility of banning groups of gmos. the final text approved by the council provided that member states could decide whether to require undertakings to restrict the geographical scope of the authorizations under assessment or to impose unilateral bans: although this may be seen as an improvement, it will give firms the power to adopt different behaviour depending on whether the member state decides to involve them in the process. the reasons described for the prohibition of gmo cultivation are very weak and the legal instrument adopted at the end of the negotiations with the council is a directive which does not contain any obligations for transposition by the member states, thus leaving open the question of whether and how to implement the measures without updating national legislation with appropriate transposition acts. finally, the problem of coexistence is closely linked to the feared risk of accidental spread of gmo seeds or pollen to adjacent conventional crops, which could lead to economic losses due to damage between producers: if the crops had significant amounts of gmos in the harvest, they could no longer be certified as non-gmos. for all the reasons i have just described, i have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. - i voted against the new regulation on genetically modified organisms (gmos) because it does not provide member states with a strong regulatory framework to protect and safeguard their crops from contamination by gmos. the new directive is unbalanced in favour of biotech multinationals, which are considered to be subject to the same rules as the states, thus limiting their political sovereignty. no new environmental/health reasons other than those already accepted by efsa may be put forward to justify the prohibition. and it is not out of the question that multinational biotech companies may challenge the decisions of a member state before the court of justice of the european union. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be required to insure gm crops against damage caused by accidental or accidental contamination of conventional or organic crops.
in writing. the proposal aims to transpose into union law a series of measures adopted by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. we voted in favour of this proposal because it contains a framework of initiatives and regulations which are acceptable, important and in some cases necessary. we are not going to vote for the amendments, but we are going to vote for the amendments which are not acceptable to us. the proposal is therefore weakened in some respects in its action to protect certain species, in particular red coral. the cgpm clearly stated that red coral could not be harvested using rovs (remotely operated vehicles). rovs were only allowed for observation and research, and as long as they weren't equipped with tools that could cut and harvest the coral itself. in the version published by parliament these indications have been distorted, leading in all likelihood to a destructive, unsustainable harvesting of red coral, with no scientific justification for this practice. we therefore reluctantly vote in favour because we approve of the context and other rules contained in this proposal, but we are very concerned about a species which already has considerable conservation problems.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal which contains technical measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans and the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays in the gfcm area. these measures go beyond the protection already granted to these species at eu level by the habitats directive and other union acts and include specific registration and reporting obligations for both operators and member states.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this provision because i consider very important to coordinate and support an important sector of the mediterranean economy such as fishing.
in writing. i voted in favour. advanced technical measures for sustainable exploitation are shared.
in writing. i voted today in favour of the regulation on certain provisions for fisheries in the area covered by the gfcm (general fisheries commission for the mediterranean) agreement. at its annual meetings in 2011 and 2012, the gfcm adopted measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral in its area of competence, for the mitigation of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and cetaceans, for the protection of sharks and rays, and for the fishery of small pelagic fish in the adriatic sea. the vote was on the amendment of european legislation in the light of the above recommendations. i voted in favour of integrating the measures into eu law, as they were to be implemented.
in writing. the proposal takes account of the recommendations of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. however, as the rapporteur himself has pointed out, some rules should be improved to adapt to the reality of the fishing world.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation because i share its spirit and objectives and its practical implementation. i agree with the need to look for sustainable ways of exploiting marine resources, combining the (always existing) opportunity to make a living from them with the obligation to introduce rules that also allow future generations to continue to reap the dividend of this incredible resource, perhaps combining fishing with tourism and the study of what we do not yet know.
in writing. i voted in favour of the legislative resolution amending regulation 1343/2011 because it aims to ensure the sustainable exploitation of red coral and to protect certain marine species from fishing activities which, without the necessary regulation, end up damaging the marine ecosystem. with particular reference to the latter aspect, the proposal for a regulation under consideration aims to ensure the sustainable use of marine resources through an ecosystem approach to the management of human activities, i.e. a methodology that envisages the human community as an integral part of ecosystems and the mechanisms that regulate them.
in writing. the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean was established in 1949 by an international agreement. its area of competence covers the mediterranean, the black sea and adjacent waters. the main functions of the cgpm are: to promote the development, conservation and rational management of living aquatic resources. at its annual meetings in 2011 and 2012, the gfcm adopted measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the mitigation of by-catch of seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and cetaceans, the protection of sharks and rays, and the fishery for small pelagic fish in the adriatic sea. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to incorporate into eu law the recommendations of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal to transpose into eu law measures adopted by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean, thus amending regulation (eu) no 1343/2011, because i cannot deny the general good sense of the purpose and some of the provisions contained herein; i would like to stress, however, that as is often the case, many of the individual acceding states have already transposed the measures expressed by the gfcm and will therefore now be forced to ask for a derogation from the european commission whose present proposal in fact ignores the law already in use in the individual states which is often better in terms of protection and care for the environment. i am also concerned about the risk that a delicate species such as red coral may be subjected to treatments which, according to the text thus approved, are not environmentally sustainable.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal because its aim is to transpose into european law the recommendations of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. these measures, which are very important for our sea, concern the sustainable exploitation of red coral and the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and whales. we need these provisions to protect and carefully manage the fragile mediterranean ecosystem.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal which contains technical measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans and the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays in the gfcm area.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr mato's report because i believe it is very important that european legislation takes account of, harmonises and respects the recommendations of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. a commission sitting at the same table as the european countries, our neighbours with whom we share our marine resources. it is essential to work towards reducing and avoiding the incidental capture of seabirds, sea turtles and monk seals. fishing must not become a threat to endangered species such as sharks and rays. biodiversity has to be protected. it is also true, mr president, that many states have already complied with these recommendations and that the european union has already imposed even stricter measures with its regulations than those envisaged by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. it is therefore right not to duplicate obligations, not to require states to provide for double derogations, double adjustments and the revision of appropriate national management frameworks, already approved.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of mr gabriel mato's report because i believe that this proposal establishes a satisfactory level of regulatory protection in the fisheries sector. the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean is a regional organisation which promotes the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in both the mediterranean and the black sea.
in writing. i voted in favour of the regulation on certain provisions for fisheries in the gfcm area. the proposal contains a framework of important initiatives and regulations aimed at transposing into eu law the recommendations of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean on the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of bycatch of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans and the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays.
in writing. the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), established in 1949 by an international agreement, is a regional organisation which promotes the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources. i share mr mato's view that it is entirely desirable that his recommendations should be incorporated into eu law. i believe that they establish a satisfactory level of regulatory protection in the fisheries sector.
in writing. we have today approved this proposal which aims to transpose into eu law the recommendations of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean on the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of bycatch of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans and the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays. some of the measures envisaged go well beyond the protection already granted to the species concerned at community level by the habitats directive and other european union acts and therefore end up including some specific registration and reporting obligations for both operators and member states. we therefore consider that the gfcm recommendations establish a sufficient level of regulatory protection which must therefore be implemented by the contracting parties before any further measures can be envisaged in this regard.
in writing. i am voting in favour of mr mato's report on the fisheries arrangements in the gfcm area. the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean has, since its establishment, been responsible for promoting the development and conservation and management of aquatic resources. it can count on the support of all the member states, in addition to those which embrace the mediterranean and the black sea. the need therefore arises to transpose into european union law those provisions which characterise the gfcm agreement in order to establish a sufficient level of regulatory protection.
in writing. whereas the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council is intended to incorporate the measures contained in the recommendations of the gfcm; i therefore support the proposal, as it contains technical measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans and the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays in the area covered by the gfcm agreement, and as it also transposes into union law a number of measures applicable to the fisheries of small pelagic stocks in the adriatic sea.
in writing. the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) was established by an international agreement and its area of competence extends from the mediterranean to the black sea and adjacent waters. the relevant tasks of the gfcm are to promote the development, conservation and rational management of living aquatic resources and to formulate and recommend conservation measures. over the years, as is normal, its responsibilities have evolved, and in recent sessions the gfcm has adopted important measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral in its area of competence, the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans, and the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays in the gfcm agreement area. i therefore support the proposal to incorporate the recommendations of the cgpm into eu law.
in writing. - i decided to vote in favour of this report because it updates the commission proposal which contains technical measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans and the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays in the area where the gfcm agreement applies. these measures go beyond the protection already granted to these species at eu level by the habitats directive and other union acts and include specific registration and reporting obligations for both operators and member states. in addition, the commission proposal is in many cases more stringent than the recommendations of the cgpm.
in writing. the report voted on today aims to transpose into union law a series of measures adopted by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) at its annual sessions in 2011, 2012 and 2013. the text, which i have decided to support by voting in favour, seeks to take the cgpm's recommendations faithfully and in their entirety, avoiding that misinterpretations lead to the definition of more stringent and very often unjustifiable additional measures. i am referring, for example, to the european commission's initial proposal to classify as active small pelagic vessels those for which sardines and/or anchovies represent at least 50% of the catch made in each fishing trip. since this time frame does not fit the local reality of the adriatic where the time spent on board is generally less than 12 hours, i hope that in the next negotiations with the council and the commission the original text of the gfcm recommendation will be taken into account and a fair compromise will be reached in order to clearly identify the vessels which are actually engaged in active bluefin fishing, based on more representative catch data.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we join the european council in congratulating the ukrainian government in december. we congratulate the ukrainian government on the great political innovation, instead of ministers chosen by the people, now three foreigners selected by an international recruiting agency. among them, the finance minister, an american, former employee of the us state department who went on to manage a ukrainian investment fund and who received citizenship on the day of her appointment. we welcome this new perestroika, business will finally be done in transparency and we italians will no longer be the only ones with conflicts of interest in politics for appointed or heterodirected governments. we welcome the financial tycoon soros who has admitted to helping to overthrow the ukrainian government and who sponsors the recruiting agency that selects foreign ministers. we congratulate the ukrainian minister of the interior on the anniversary of auschwitz, who controls the nazi azov battalion, whose emblem was already in use by the ss. we welcome the arrival of one million persecuted refugees, most of whom have fled to russia, but we must ask ourselves why. we welcome the sanctions, the damage to thousands of european companies, the billions we have and should have to pay in taxpayer aid to our citizens who are still being asked to make sacrifices for austerity while risking being dragged into world war iii on their doorstep. the new ukraine is truly a masterpiece worthy of the greatest historical mistakes of the worst teachers and advisors from overseas, the same ones who want ttip. it is not a question of being against or for russia, but of being neutral and for once doing what is in the interests of the european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to make a very calm and comprehensive speech, as i always do, in the sense that we see this europe as an economic disaster, and i say this as a mayor, seeing my citizens in all their difficulties. in my few seconds, i'd like to remind you of two things: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. we have all seen the issue (unfortunately) in paris, so i put on the shirt to remember with a historical cartoon what the tragedy in paris was, but i also want to remember because i would like to see a european guantanamo in europe to try to fight the violent islamic terrorists, including the flag of isis. we must have the courage to say that isis must be fought and destroyed! we must destroy these people, i am not against the islamists as such, we would need more! everyone has his own religion, but it is right that if they come to europe they should be in our customs and customs and they should respect us. the west is not an enemy, the west is a source of culture and if they want to come here and follow our rules or go back home, including isis!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to welcome president tusk to this house and wish him a good day's work. in december, at the last meeting of the italian presidency, the council also called for the establishment of a european fund for strategic investments as a priority, with a view to mobilising the famous €315 billion between 2015 and 2017. it is clear that we all need to give a boost to economic growth in europe and, as a result, to a new impetus to employment, especially youth employment. we all know how much growth is linked to investment, which has fallen sharply in these years of crisis. for us socialists and democrats, the overcoming of the policies of strictness and austerity alone is essential for the very survival of europe. what is the point of having our budgets in order if we cannot give hope and answers to the 27 million unemployed across europe, if we cannot invest again in growth and in the opportunity for jobs and development? the juncker commission, which was voted in by the socialists precisely to set a policy of change, is meeting today to approve the regulation on the investment plan, a regulation which we will assess very carefully and on which we must reach agreement as soon as possible so that new investment can be activated immediately, together with the reforms which the countries are undertaking.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, libya, the final act of a tragedy? the proxy civil war sponsored by the uae, egypt and the us on one side and qatar and turkey on the other, has fuelled the excessive ambitions of the contending factions to achieve total victory. the result is a veritable national economic suicide. the decline in production and the collapse in oil prices reduced revenues to 19 billion from 59 billion in 2013. it is now a failed state politically as well as economically. the policy of the two ovens, or rather the two wells, adopted by the libyan central bank is dead and buried and the caliphate of derna, a third nuisance ready to take advantage of it, is grateful. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a party to the conflict, and it must not be allowed to continue to be a party to the conflict. we can still prevent this if we look to the good of all and not just the interests of a few.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the libyan conflict has far-reaching repercussions on the economy and security of the entire mediterranean basin. the risk of an escalation of the conflict at the regional level is real. the chaos that is prevailing today and the massive amount of weapons available can turn the country into an ideal territory for the activity and formation of extremist groups, including isis as we have seen. in this context, action is needed to overcome the state of inattention which has characterized european policy for some time. the libyan emergency must be resolved by forcing all libyan representatives to sit at the enlarged table, starting, of course, from geneva on the basis of the work that must be supported by bernardino león. this diplomatic offensive must not be wasted, because it is crucial to finding a political solution and must be facilitated by the role of the neighbouring countries and must be encouraged by europe. this is the urgent task we have today, fully aware that, on the one hand, without a positive conclusion to the negotiations, libyan political society will be in even more chaos and disaster and, on the other hand, europe, which after the mistakes made can no longer make any mistakes or will be faced with a very dangerous drift. (the president accepted a request for a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have tried to say in the speech that some mistakes have been made and it is right to say so! it is on the basis of these mistakes that we must not make any more mistakes and that we must intervene so that dialogue can be established and the conditions for lasting peace in that country can be created. europe needs it most of all!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr mogherini, the libyan crisis is a matter of grave concern for europe and for all of us. in libya, a few hundred kilometres from europe's southern gate, there is an increasingly violent and dramatic clash between anti-islamists and pro-islamists, with the presence of groups that call on terrorist groups and isis. the massacres in paris and the threats to europe by the caliphate are too acute a warning not to redouble our efforts to find a political solution to the crisis. the humanitarian crisis in libya, with the massive migration phenomena towards tunisia and our mediterranean coast, must be stopped and europe and the united nations must take a strong and effective political initiative. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the oil industry. in order to put an end to these conflicts within libya, mr mogherini, it is necessary to establish as soon as possible a permanent forum for all the parties involved so that we can finally begin the dialogue that will promote stability and social peace. the division of libya into two states would be a disaster of immense proportions and must be avoided. i am sure that the whole of the european parliament is aware of this, and that is why i believe that our taking a strong, determined and unambiguous position is absolutely essential and urgent. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that some mistakes have inevitably been made, and we must admit that, but we must face up to the reality we are living in. and we in italy are perhaps experiencing it more than others, because we are facing a dramatic situation in the mediterranean with isis just a stone's throw from our country, and so i think that the indication i have given to the high representative, mrs mogherini, is that to counter this not through the oil embargo but through the arms embargo, which is an absolutely necessary instrument. so realpolitik right now, stay on your toes!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, libya is now one of the hottest places on earth. the country is torn by heavy armed clashes between militias of opposing factions and government forces, in some cases with aerial bombardment. there have been suicide bombings, kidnappings of western citizens, there is a very large and heavy presence of islamic extremist and jihadist groups, responsible for bombings, civilian killings and acts of guerrilla warfare. isis is very active and very strong in libya. the inability of government law enforcement to ensure effective control of the territory has resulted, in addition to a high number of victims, in a huge volume of refugees trying to move towards european borders, especially italians, as evidenced by the 826 migrant landings that took place in 2014 on italian coasts for a total of 141,000 people. all this is at the doorstep of europe, europe must intervene, we must intervene together and together we must find a solution and try to help these people within their own country. almost four years after the fall of gaddafi there is no border control and on this we must also understand who is a refugee and who is illegal and we must also have greater speed in identifying these two types of people.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. we have reached a point of no return, ladies and gentlemen! europe is facing one of the most challenging challenges of recent times, and while in paris people are demonstrating and vigorously defending the right to freedom of expression, in the seas of europe an unprecedented number of men and women fleeing war and poverty are risking their lives in a desperate attempt to reach european shores. these people need our help because every human life counts! because human rights are indivisible and inviolable rights and must be effectively protected and promoted. if we don't want to be hypocrites, there's only one way to do that: work together to build a common european immigration policy. the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one, and it is a new one. if we do not solve this political problem, we will wash our mouths, we will wash our consciences, or we will make some instrumental and demagogic speeches, but we will not solve the problem. the problem is that it is brussels, the european government, which must plan the flows, which must have relations with third countries, which must discriminate between legal immigration and illegal immigration, which must then have the capacity to protect the right to integration of these citizens. this is a great challenge, commissioner, which we do not have in this legislature - i say this to you and to the representative of the european council - if we really want to be worthy of the trust and esteem of the citizens we must take this great step forward, otherwise we will not be worthy and, you see, the world is global and globalisation brings new poverty, there are outbreaks of war, death, terror, disease, from which we are fleeing and it is useless to say let's raise the borders because raising the borders does not help. those who run from death, from disease, from terror, will always run! the world will never be a collection of saracen's houses or closed classrooms, the world is inter-global, there is only one way: we must not forget that the european parliament has been a key player in the fight against racism and xenophobia, and that it is the european parliament which is responsible for this. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, why do you think that terrorists are on board the migrant ships? but on the migrant ships there are poor people, desperate people or some petty criminals, but certainly not the big terrorists who carry out the bombings! the big terrorists have money, they are financed by a terror network, they are not those poor rags, unfortunately, who are forced to die on the shuttles, we do not make fun of ourselves! and above all, let us not make fun of the european citizens, the european citizens need serious answers and the serious answer is: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it is not only the european parliament that has been involved in the process of european integration, but also the european parliament itself.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in a european union where the interior ministers are obsessed with collecting data on air passengers, it is astonishing that ghost ships can arrive, 13 in three months, with hundreds of fugitives whom we cannot protect from traffickers! it is scandalous that some mediterranean countries pretend not to see the ships and refuse to help when the first sos is sent, as in the case of blue sky. we call for the scrupulous observance of the rescue obligations imposed by frontex even beyond 30 miles from the coast, and for frontex to be sanctioned when it criticises italian rescues beyond 30 miles. i would like to say this to the commissioner and to the latvian presidency. we call for the immediate establishment of legal humanitarian corridors to stop the traffickers and not to end the right of asylum.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the phenomenon of ghost ships carrying migrants apparently abandoned by their crews on the routes to europe is a danger to the safety of navigation and human life. investigations into recent landings in calabria, puglia and sicily reveal that the migrant-filled sea-cart business is large, worth millions of dollars, as is the publicly funded reception system. some mediterranean countries allow ships to pass towards the italian coast without intervening. the european union and the member states bordering the mediterranean should combat any form of collusion more effectively, by promoting forms of cooperation to prevent trafficking in human beings by providing legal access routes to europe and adopting all valid instruments for the protection of human lives and fundamental rights, and by dismantling criminal networks and protecting the states most exposed to the pressure of the flows.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the last few days of 2014 were marked by a massive flow of migrants heading for the italian coast, more than a thousand in a few days, abandoned adrift in cargo ships, a sign of an obvious evolution and adaptation of human traffickers. the cold and the drastic downsizing of the italian mare nostrum mission did not stop departures, while what remains of the operation has ceased as of 1 january. those who flee from war, mr president, have no choice but to rely on the hands of the traffickers of death; the war on europe's doorstep confronts us with the need to guard the southern borders with a particular emphasis on the humanitarian aspect, that of saving people. operation triton is clearly insufficient. a response that takes a more profound approach to the causes and the fight against trafficking, but also against organised crime and corruption, is now indispensable. i therefore welcome the commissioner's willingness and openness to tackle immigration with a comprehensive approach to solve the problem of illegal immigration, a strong international policy, strong development cooperation and legal immigration.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, from my point of view, the first thing we have to admit is that the european approach has been wrong. it was wrong as a whole; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it was wrong for europe to have an international policy, because we created instability where there was stability, by increasing the flow of migrants, and it was wrong for europe to favour these boats and these people who arrive in this way because they then end up in the slave market. you have to imagine, for example, that of the 14,000 children who arrived in italy last year, some 4,000 children have been lost, and i leave it to you to imagine where these children may have gone! and of the 150,000 rescued, only a third remained in reception facilities, the rest will probably roam around europe quietly, and not everyone is a refugee and not everyone has the right to asylum, and so we should also have policies to repatriate these people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, immigration is becoming more and more complex every day and demands ever greater attention from europe. in 2014, according to figures released by the un refugee agency, more than 207,000 migrants attempted to cross the mediterranean, with more than 3,400 losing their lives. in recent months there have been a number of incidents, which have been discussed in this house in a very detailed manner, which indicate a change of strategy on the part of criminal organizations, namely the phenomenon of so-called ghost ships in which automatic pilots are placed in the hope of being rescued at sea. what is even more serious is that many of these ships leave from the ports of turkey, which has become the main hub for the processing of irregular migration in europe, the same turkey that has for many years explicitly asked to join the european union. that is why i believe that there is an absolute need for europe to initiate cooperation actions with all third countries, but with turkey in particular, in order to combat human trafficking and to stop these criminal and criminal actions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, since the end of operation mare nostrum and the start of operation triton, there has been an increase in the disturbing phenomena we have called 'ghost ships', which are old cargo ships that are left adrift on autopilot and then obviously a rescue signal is given so that the coastguard can intervene. there have been 13 cases, two recent, the ezadeen and the blue sky m. i heard commissioner avramopoulos say that we are increasing the cooperation with turkey, but the point is that these ships have passed through turkey, they have sailed from turkey and probably the turks have not noticed, so i also wonder how we are cooperating with turkey, since it is a country with which we have considerable relations. there is a huge profit for those who are doing this business, this organised crime, which is estimated at billions of euros, and there are complicit states, so a common policy must be a common policy in fact, a decisive policy on this issue of immigration.
in writing. sandy, the ghost ship, 700 migrants. blue sky m, ghost ship, 970 migrants are on board. ezadeen, ghost ship, 400 migrants on board. it seems like a coincidence, but since we moved from mare nostrum to triton, a new strategy has been developed and old routes reopened. no more sea wagons, but merchant ships. no longer the lampedusan route, but the levant route again. migrants pay more for the illusion of safer boats. these reports highlight the limits of european action, the inability of frontex and the inadequacy of triton. the failure of the european response. we can't wait any longer. and they cannot wait for the thousands of people who are the first victims of this trade. the key word must be security and the right to life of those who face that desperate journey to escape from wars, persecution, poverty. we must not forget, commissioner, that the routes crossed by these vessels are very busy and a ship without a pilot creates many dangers, not only to those on board. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat trafficking in human beings.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in november 2012, then commissioner reding boldly and decisively presented a draft legislation aimed at promoting a more equal inclusion of women on the boards of publicly listed companies. a year later this parliament gave a proof of foresight and courage and decided, by an overwhelming majority - i recall 459 votes in favour - to support this proposal. we have been one step away from having a directive in the community's legislative body which would support a more rational integration of women into the economic and social life of the community. it would have been a very important, flexible legislative reference which would have ensured the adequate inclusion of women in the workforce in europe, but the council has failed to take up this challenge and so have the member states, some member states. but what i regret most is the failure of the italian presidency to bring home this very important battle for equality between women and men, and i regret it above all because my country has proved to be a pioneer in this field by adopting in june 2011 a bipartisan legislative measure on access to company bodies. i hope that the latvian presidency will now promote a constructive debate in the council, but above all a dialogue leading to the actual adoption of this directive which, as commissioner thyssen says, is 'necessary today more than ever'.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i too believe that the council's blockade of the measure we are discussing is simply shameful, it is completely unjustified. the opposition to the measure is purely ideological, with arguments that are unfounded. you were right to ask for some guidance, some advice on how to force this state of affairs; i'll try to tell you what i think quickly. gender equality is a fundamental human right, which is being denied today by the council's hostility. gender equality, because of the things you have heard here and also in countries which have had important experiences, is a great advantage for the production system, because women are the bearers of a particular point of view, of an important culture and of knowledge that men often do not have. that is why i think it is very important, on the one hand, to have quotas, because voluntary action alone is not enough, and on the other hand, to have sanctions. if you use all these arguments to unblock an objectively intolerable situation, you cannot speak of a europe of rights as long as discrimination of this kind remains.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the obstructionism surrounding the proposal for a gender balance in the cdas of listed companies is really incomprehensible, and absolutely unacceptable. the agreement reached through the mediation of the italian presidency provided, among other things, that member states which had already achieved good results would be entitled to continue their policies without the obligation to transpose the directive and, above all, that the 40% threshold for women would not be an obligation to achieve results. this means that no state would ever be sanctioned if it failed to achieve its objective. now, let's leave out all the research and data that shows the positive effects of women in the button room and these obviously don't stop at the numbers but could the council explain what the fear is? what are the states afraid of with this directive which does not even provide for sanctions? i really hope the answer is not that the problem is cultural and has nothing to do with managerial economics. i also hope that the latvian presidency will not let this matter fall into the void by forcing us into a further deadlock of another six months.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we women do not want to achieve the objective of equal participation in the world of work with men simply because we are women, but because we know that we have all the necessary qualifications and skills to achieve the meritocratic level that is our due. but to do this we need a social system behind us which enables us to devote ourselves fully and completely to our work, so that women do not have to give up their role in the family in order to pursue a career. only on this basis do we consider the 40% quota to be acceptable. the european union should also take a less punitive and more incentive-based approach to this sensitive issue for companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, in terms of social, family and labour policies and gender equality.
in writing. diversity necessarily leads to an improvement in the results and impacts of any production process. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to adopt the directive on the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer. the problem is the penalties to be applied if a company does not reach the 40% quota of female non-executive directors. the real aim of the measure is not to protect women as such, but to promote meritocratic selection mechanisms, in which the best are assigned to positions without discrimination based on sex. in this respect, the recognition of rights is not only right but also useful. for this reason, an alternative approach is proposed: rather than focusing on quota-related sanction mechanisms or on simple eu indications of a quota to be reached, we introduce and promote reward mechanisms for companies that reach the quota. this would also have a positive effect on small and mediumsized enterprises which are currently excluded from the directive.
in writing. the latest study by the international labour organisation once again demonstrates the positive link between women's participation in top roles and the performance of structures and businesses. however, the same study points out that without positive action, it will take 100 to 200 years to achieve full gender equality at the top. while i understand the need to apply the principle of solidarity, which has led some member states to be rigid on this issue, i believe that the compromise text drawn up by the italian presidency is far from raising any concerns in this respect: the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs is based on the principle of proportionality. it is therefore desirable that the work done so far should not be wasted and that an agreement within the council should be reached as soon as possible.
i would like to thank the italian presidency for the work it has done on this subject during the six months, albeit on the basis of the start of the summer term and the renewal of parliament and the commission. however, i think that we should be grateful for the significant progress made on important legislative dossiers such as the pif directive, the regulations on the european public prosecutor and eurojust, but also for other important achievements such as the resolution on the operational network to combat mafia-like groups and forms of serious crime, the action plan on the illicit trafficking of arms between the european union and the regions of south-east europe and the conclusions on cooperation in the fight against food crime. the presidency also urged the commission to prepare without further delay the report on the implementation of the 2008 framework decision on organised crime, which has been awaited for over two years and is also necessary for the development of new measures, in particular as regards the attack on criminal assets. in this connection, however, i would like to reiterate the call for a new and more ambitious initiative to be presented as soon as possible on the confiscation of the instruments and proceeds of crime, even in the absence of a conviction; i believe that this parliament must be equipped to play a constant role in encouraging the fight against crime in all its forms to become a central issue in parliament's work, also and especially in this parliament.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased and even a little proud that the fight against the mafia and corruption has finally returned to the attention of the european institutions. thanks to the initiative of the five star movement and the support of many colleagues from different groups and nationalities, whom we thank very much. i would have been much happier if my italian colleagues in the pd had put aside the logic of belonging, typical of old italian politics, with their shamefully denied support for a cross-cutting initiative that belongs to everyone and not just those who stand up as champions of the anti-mafia. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality. today we call on the institutions of the union to resume immediately the work which has been interrupted: parliament, with the libe committee, to follow up on the mandate given to it by the crim; the commission shall adopt appropriate legislative initiatives to introduce the crime of association with mafia-type criminals at european level, strengthen the legislation on confiscation of proceeds of crime and introduce the delayed seizure or arrest measure when necessary to obtain evidence or to capture organised crime figures. the council shall undertake to coordinate internal security policies between member states in the field of organised crime of the mafia type and corruption. in this last respect, i regret to note that the italian presidency has done nothing to follow up the recommendations of the crim committee listed above. the failure of renzi's pd to support the oral question is further confirmation that the fight against the mafia is neither a priority nor entirely a thought of his.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, giovanni falcone, a judge and sicilian hero, used to say: 'follow the money and you will find the mafia'. we must start from a starting point, the mafia is a global phenomenon, we are not talking about something abstract, we are talking about associations, organized crime, which are able to globalize faster than markets. i am sicilian and i remember perfectly well when i was a child and it was believed that the mafia was a phenomenon that existed only in palermo or corleone, whereas it was already operating with money in northern italy and other european countries. we must start from this assumption: the mafia is present in paris, berlin and london, and it is even more so than it was in the places where it originated. it is therefore a phenomenon which must be tackled in a coherent and decisive way.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank commissioner avramopoulos and the minister for being here, as many colleagues have said, and i see that they agree with me - and i am very pleased - that the regulatory gaps between european countries must be closed. that is why - since i have only a minute - i will give you an example of what has happened in italy on the tav works, the turin-lyon high-speed line, where there is evidence of mafia infiltration in the management of contracts and the president of the italian anti-corruption authority, cantone, has stated that the tav works will not be subject to an anti-mafia ban because the legal responsible are subject to french law, where there is no rule, and so i ask you to please make a move because politics must represent the honest and must not represent organized crime.
in writing. i would like to draw the attention of this parliament to the issues of corruption and organised crime in italy, as i believe these are very undervalued issues in the european context. i come from a country where the collusion between the political and criminal systems is increasingly taking on the contours of a drama. from the squandering of public funds - mainly european - to the criminal system by which contracts for public services are awarded to companies, the crime is now widespread. bribery, mafia collusion and profit-making mechanisms that citizens are forced to suffer in general impotence. the reports available to europe unfortunately reveal only a small part of what is actually happening. for example, it does not appear that italy, as was also found in the latest ranking published by the corruption perception index 2014 of transparency international, is the first in europe for corruption. i call on the commission and the council to take note of this tragedy and to act more effectively, especially on the control systems which europe has at institutional level.
in writing. thanks to the efforts of the crim special committee on crossborder organised crime, set up during the last parliamentary term, this issue has finally been able to get the 'european attention' it deserved. but this hard-earned attention must not fade after all the good work done so far. europe must not underestimate the damage that crossborder criminal activities create, especially economic damage, when it comes to money laundering or corruption. we in italy are unfortunately well aware of these issues and we also know how expensive it is for honest people to live in a territory infiltrated by corruption, the black market and recycling. we also know that special and extraordinary means are needed to combat this crime, and i believe that this is precisely where europe must develop. criminal organisations, although based in specific countries, act and operate throughout the union, with no country excluded. the experience gained in some territories in the suppression of such phenomena must be shared in a climate of mutual trust and close cooperation between the police authorities and the european judiciary. a crime of european proportions must be met with strong european action to protect citizens against the phenomena that are weakening our economy and our society.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not agree with mr lenaers when he says that talking about an oral question or having a debate about it is not important. i think the issue raised by mrs sargentini is very important, because i would not like the discourse on national security to lead to a police state in which it is accepted that those basic rights, such as the right to privacy, the right to defence, the rule of law, due process, can be overridden. let's understand that there are rights that took a long time to win, so if they have to be violated, there has to be a very serious reason and there has to be the right procedures, not a veiled threat. there is a 2013 directive, which in this case is being violated in its entirety, and the case in question that happened in the netherlands could happen in every country in europe. it is important that the council and the commission take a position on this matter, including the member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, as president juncker has just said, you are taking up your presidency at a crucial moment for the european union, a moment of hope but also of fear, and the fate of our societies will depend on the decisions we take together, whether we let fear win or hope win. if, in the face of the threat of terrorism, we choose to stand tall, then fear will win out, if we choose to combine security and freedom, if we do not accept the distortion of our open society, based on integration, then hope will prevail. europe is the land of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and if europe abandons these values it betrays itself, so we want to respond to the demand for protection of our citizens by remaining true to ourselves. we need a new approach to security, europe's security is not just a matter of our national borders. you have said it very well. when war breaks out on the borders of europe for the first time since the 1970s, we cannot afford to sit idly by! the presidency must push to overcome the resistance of the member states and build a regional strategy to wipe out the terrorist forces in syria, iraq and libya. the israeli-palestinian conflict is also a breeding ground for radicalism. we ask you to support the efforts of vice-president federica mogherini to ensure that europe really plays a mediating role. we must also make better use of the data provided by the schengen system in order to identify foreign fighters. on this ground i want to be very clear: schengen is not touched! it doesn't need to be changed, just applied properly! if schengen is affected, the principle of freedom of movement within the european union, which is a pillar of europe, is also affected. on the pnr, again with the utmost clarity: we have no negative ideological bias, but we have our north stars which should be for everyone, the protection of fundamental freedoms and human rights. if we do not want to give in to fear, we must also talk again - as my colleague weber has done - about social justice, five years of austerity have depressed our societies: yesterday was a good day for europe, for the first time with the decisions of the european union. i thank president juncker for speaking again. mr prodi said that the stability pact was stupid, but with your decisions yesterday you made the pact a little smarter, we are on the right track.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, your work can be encouraging or discouraging, depending on your point of view, and that is that you can hardly do any worse than your predecessors. yes, because the italian government has made many promises, but has brought home no results. we are talking about unemployment and development, we prefer to talk about development rather than growth. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial instruments for the period 2007-13 is a step in the right direction. little resources, by the way, distracted by other expenditure items and no concrete idea of development. if we want to give europe a future and really fight unemployment, we must give the regions the opportunity to invest. but the long-awaited flexibility document has not solved anything: the regions are unable to spend the funds because of the loophole in the stability pact, which has not been removed. we therefore ask you to make a strong commitment, at least to ensure that the cofinancing of the funds is not counted against the stability pact. there is also a lot to do on the environmental side. the european union has decided to put the brakes on reducing greenhouse gas emissions and building a greener and more resource-efficient economy. what credibility are we going to paris with? what credibility can we have in asking other countries, especially developing countries, to do more to combat global warming? i am thinking of what is happening in the mediterranean, where the oil race has begun, and the european union is giving the member states a blank cheque for drilling, and this is a great hypocrisy. we are doing a lot for sustainable fishing, but if the drills are polluting and destroying the mediterranean, what is europe doing? turn around! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. policies like this are important, but what is croatia doing in the adriatic? he just signed off on 10 drilling concessions. ensure that development and employment are really at the heart of the semester and within a framework which respects the environment and resources, as well as the specific characteristics of individual states: the commission has also proposed that the member states should take the necessary measures to ensure that the
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the paris massacre has struck at the heart of europe and its citizens: our freedom, our values, our civilization have come under the gun of islamic fundamentalism, and none of us feels safe anymore. europe must wake up, we have been declared at war and in war we must fight! it is not enough to be in the front row as you did, as the european leaders did in paris on sunday, we must act now because it is already too late! courage is needed, in word and deed! we must immediately suspend the schengen treaty because europe has shown that it cannot protect its citizens. and then, no more illegal immigrants! because the police department has quantified that for every 1,000 illegal aliens landed, there is a potential terrorist. the committee on strategic analysis on counter-terrorism should finally be set up. enough talk about possible violations of privacy and freedom! because it is the islamic terrorists who are free! europol says 5,000 fighters are or will be coming to europe. we must immediately remove security expenditure from the stability pact. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president, the latvian semester opens at a very delicate time for europe: we must confront terrorism with effective joint action. i hope that this action will be based on intelligence and the building of a culture, indeed the strengthening of the culture of freedom. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote. at the same time, we must face the problem of growth together: europe has not emerged from the very serious crisis that has struck it. we need targeted investment policies and we need flexibility in the management of public expenditure and the accounts of each country, certainly within a defined framework, but with the necessary flexibility and reasonableness. we need growth for our children, and your semester will be very challenging for that reason as well.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president, it is good that latvia is leading europe, because it shows how the unity of europeans - i come from the south, from italy - can make history happen, and that a woman is head of the council is a sign of female leadership. i hope and ask you to guide the council in continuity with the work of the italian presidency, which has strongly set and pursued the priority of growth and investment, because we need a strong european economic governance that is geared to growth, not to depressing europe and locking it up. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. on digital, i would say that the european parliament's indications are important for the closure of the telecom package, which was clear: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. a final word on expo and the millennium development goals which are also included in its work plan.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am addressing those who are embarking on this adventure of the european semester today. beyond all the talk that is made, being also mayor, i see people every day who ask me for help, who ask for answers both to my city, my country, italy, but also to europe. we have seen in recent years how much people have become poorer, how much european policies have made them poorer. so i say to her: let's do something very concrete. do you know that in europe in recent months and years the opportunity to eat meat has decreased while the purchase of eggs has increased because they are much cheaper? maybe no one here understands what meat is? these are two pieces of meat, the people of europe, millions of people, can no longer eat this because it has become a mirage, because there is no money. in return, they eat only eggs! so do the politics for the little ones, help the families, help the people who can't afford to buy even the meat slices anymore and let's make sure that the eggs are good to eat but ...
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, do you really think that any of our countries - perhaps the smallest with a few hundred thousand inhabitants, but also yours, which is certainly larger - can now and in the future provide for the defence of their citizens? of course, europe must not be aggressive, but it must be able to have a common defence and security policy and a common foreign policy which would be a real policy, not the jokes you told us.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, as you have said, the tragedy in france has shown us unequivocally that there are no frontiers for a global challenge such as the fight against terrorism. that is why those who see strengthening the bastions of the fortress europe as the solution are wrong, because they are responding to the problems of the present with categories from the past. today, as always, the best treatment for this disease is to eliminate its causes and limit its spread. terrorism gathers frustrated and resentful souls, exacerbated by poverty, marginalization, discrimination, seduced by the illusion of violence as a form of distorted redemption. it's the same in a suburb of cairo or tunis, as in one of paris or one of rome, there's not much difference! i therefore ask you to commit yourself to a concrete, specific and immediate plan to support neighbouring countries such as tunisia, a new model and example of democratic transition in the arab world. its economic and social fragility with its inhabitants torn between citizens of a modern democracy and foreign fighters of jihad. to meet the challenge they need our real support and they need it now because terrorism will never be the answer, but certain questions still deserve one, let's make sure it's the right one.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is possible, but it should be added that in 1957, when the treaty of rome was to be voted on and the europe of the six was to be born, the italian communist party, of which napolitano was a very influential member, voted against it, and fought hard against it because they were servants of the soviet union. foreign fighter: on 17 october, at my request, president juncker informed you of the dangers of this dossier, of the following: what did you do? statements or facts? so far we have seen absolutely nothing. if it is true, as it is true that you are announcing a meeting for 19 january to discuss the problem, everything has happened in the meantime. we have news that even erdogan's turkey is expelling them now, after the events in paris he tells us that he is expelling a thousand. that's the danger! what have you done to establish in europe the crime of apologising for terrorism, to control the financing of terrorism which also comes from complacent banks, for example, in hospitable britain? and so the free movement of illegal immigrants, mare nostrum, brought in 150,000, half of them were not photo-marked - i'm not saying that they are all terrorists, but we don't know who they are, where they come from, what they came to do - and you didn't take any measures, you didn't intervene, you didn't defend europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 'a common defence policy designed to support a common foreign policy presupposes that the member states identify common interests: there can be no common foreign policy without a common analytical instrument. but a common foreign policy cannot exist without a common will", were the words of a great european, leo tindemans, who unfortunately left us last month, taken from his report of 30 april 1998 on the progressive establishment of a common defence policy of the european union. the european parliament has already been reminded of the many situations and crises which call for an urgent redefinition of the european union's political priorities and its methods of action in the field of the common foreign and security policy. the problem is that the european parliament has not yet been able to take a decision on the matter, and that is why we have not yet had the opportunity to discuss it. the aim is to achieve this will, taking advantage of the leadership shown in recent months by the high representative. in conclusion, i would like to remind you that the programme of the latvian presidency has stressed the need to make progress on european battle groups. this requires a new legal basis, starting with article 42.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on the very day that france was struck by islamist extremism, nigeria was living the nightmare of thousands of victims at the hands of boko haram. those who die in africa, who die as victims of the same war and the same ideology of death that has struck europe, deserve the same reaction. there are no second-class deaths! madam president, the europe that was in paris on sunday must be consistent, must show with force the will to face this great challenge, starting with nigeria, before it is too late. we cannot stand by and watch thousands of people being slaughtered! europe must become the promoter and leader of an international task force, with the involvement of the united nations and existing regional bodies, capable of putting in place long-term, structural responses. the fight against terrorism, madam president, also means eradicating the root causes that gave rise to it. it means fighting illiteracy, inequality, underdevelopment, corruption and the misappropriation of the proceeds of natural resources. it is about offering hope to a people by safeguarding democratic institutions and stimulating political participation. i remember we're a few weeks away from the presidential election in nigeria. it means giving children a future as vile instruments of war! finally, an appeal to the leaders of the democratic states of africa: i would like to thank the commission for its work in this area. some of the leaders - as high representative mogherini also recalled - were present in paris on 11 january. open the doors to peaceful and democratic protest against all forms of violence against human rights! we 're going to be like , i am africa, and i am baga! (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to ask my colleague kyenge, she is making all this important speech about nigeria, but i want to show you a photograph: you're saying that this gentleman who's the london shaman says that anyone who speaks of muhammad must die. what do you think, he should not be arrested immediately, if europe exists, and as far as i'm concerned, someone like this, who also looks like a goat, should be destroyed, he doesn't have to do the magnet, nor in london, what do you think?
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think this question is out of place, we must not confuse the sick islamist ideology with our democratic values, and i think we must not let ourselves be diverted from this question in order to put ourselves on the same level. we are not afraid of anyone and we are able to decide, according to our freedom of expression, according to our values, what is good for our society and what should be removed like a cancer from a sick body.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in 2009 boko haram announced the establishment of an islamic caliphate in nigeria, today it controls 70% of borno and next month elections will be held, but we all know that over one and a half million displaced people will not be able to vote and the ballots have not yet been delivered. the nigerian government is inefficient and the national army is powerless and is asking for help from the international community, which is silent. last year, 10,000 people were killed, and on 3 january amnesty international denounced the massacre of 2,000 people, and on the very day of the demonstration in paris, children were blown up as weapons of war and used for this purpose without their knowledge. what is yet to come? what are we waiting for? baga is just the beginning, now boko haram could aim for total control of africa's most populous state and a thriving economy and then expand, why not, to the borders of chad or cameroon. europe is not leaving nigeria alone, just writing je suis charlie is not enough!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for nigeria, 2015 was supposed to be a year of political debate, of projects, of hopes to be realized in the run-up to the legislative and presidential elections in february. but some campaign with bullets and machetes. in the city of baga this year, thousands of people will not vote, and not because of abstention, but because they no longer have a life to do so and now lie in a mass grave or on the street like a bag of trash. why does it happen? because there is also a huge illegal traffic of weapons from libya's depots to chad and niger, because certainly boko haram does not manufacture them in the forests! a few days ago, we saw millions of people, in paris and around the world, marching, that march should have been for the dead of nigeria, for those of the mediterranean and for many other forgotten cemeteries! and not just for charlie hebdo! my condolences go out to all those families. i am charlie, i am ahmed, i am nigerian and many others. i'm not a hypocrite.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs. - i am grateful for the invitation to discuss the situation in ukraine at a moment that is particularly important. i was wondering whether there were any moments that were not particularly important in relation to the situation in ukraine in the last 11, 12 or 13 months, and there were probably not. but this gives me the chance to report to you in plenary about the work that is going on at my level and also about my recent visit to ukraine. i visited kiev on 16 and 17 december 2014, almost one month ago. my messages there, which i also had the chance to share with the european council on my way back, were about the european union’s full support for the full and swift implementation of the minsk protocol and memorandum, the need for a credible process of reforms to deliver on public expectations for an improved way of governance, and the eu’s readiness to support and assist this process. a year back, you would probably not have expected that ukraine would now have a new president, a new parliament and a new government. this is to say that we have to give credit for the positive developments that the ukrainians have managed in these difficult months. i will come back, obviously, to the situation in the east of the country, but let me concentrate first – as the ukrainian leadership that i met in december did – on the internal situation of ukraine. we now have a relatively new leadership in place: a new government, parliament and president fully committed not only to a process to resolve the situation in the east but also to the core, necessary reforms in the country. the ukrainian reforms are crucial, first of all, in terms of responding to the high expectations and aspirations of the ukrainian people, who expressed those aspirations very clearly in the last two elections. meeting especially with civil society organisations and ngos and activists in kiev, i found it interesting to listen to how their focus was very much on delivering internal changes. there are systemic issues that need to be addressed, including corruption, constitutional reform and decentralisation. here, apart from the work that the european union can do, there is a lot that the council of europe and the venice commission can do to assist in judicial reform, energy sector reform, electoral reform and reform of the business climate. again, meeting with our 28 member states’ ambassadors to ukraine, i was impressed by the common indication from all 28 ambassadors in kiev that, on the one hand, they supported financial assistance but, on the other, that they recognised the need to create a business environment that enables private investment to continue, or to return to ukraine, in an effective way. the list of reforms is long and obviously very difficult, but ukraine will find – and is already finding – support for these reforms on our side. last week the commission proposed a third macro-financial assistance programme for eur 1.8 billion. this is an additional sign of the eu’s solidarity with ukraine and also part of a bigger international effort based, of course, on conditionality principles. in the light of the very difficult financial situation that ukraine is facing – and i remind you that this programme is not a blank check and will be strictly conditioned – i count on the european parliament’s support to finalise this assistance. however, it is very difficult to reform while facing a conflict on your own territory, and i think that here we have two main responsibilities. the first, as i have said, is to support the internal, difficult, challenging but needed reform process inside ukraine. the second is to work on the dramatic humanitarian impact of the conflict. this is an issue that i know is crucial for some of you, and i think that the international community, starting with the european union, needs to do more. support for those who have left and those who have stayed is crucial. we have been discussing this with the ukrainian authorities because the support has to come not only from the international community but also from the authorities in kiev, and they are willing to give it. the problem of access for humanitarian aid has to be solved. access needs to be ensured. so far, the union has committed eur 32 million in humanitarian and recovery aid, and it will continue helping if our support is increased. but then there is the security situation on the ground and the political process for talks and a solution to the conflict. let me state here again our committed and united position on the conflict, and let me also quote the latvian prime minister, who said, when presenting the priorities for the presidency this morning, that our strength is unity. it has been unity and it has to continue to be unity. i will keep this in mind not only during the debate today but also in relation to the work that we have to carry out in the coming months. our common, agreed and shared position in the european union is precious, and that is the need to work for a solution to the conflict in the east of the country – a sustainable solution that respects sovereignty and the territorial integrity of ukraine. we are doing all that we can to make this process work. on 9 december 2014, president poroshenko declared a ‘day of silence’, and since then, until yesterday, i have to say – and the ukrainian authorities confirm – that the situation had been improving significantly. yesterday, again, there were 12 victims. let me use this opportunity to say that this must not become a trend. what happened was a dramatic, terrible event, and i hope that we can go back to the previous situation which, from the day of silence on 9 december until some of the breaches of the ceasefire, was relatively calmer than it had been. commitment to the ceasefire is a necessary prerequisite for any resolution of the crisis. in recent weeks, as you know, there has been a re-intensification of the talks in different formats. on the one hand, in the normandy format, this has created some elements of hope, but the conditions were not created for a meeting in astana to be convened at this time. at the same time, efforts were undertaken by the latvian presidency. we discussed this with the latvian foreign minister last week in riga, and he paid a visit to kiev and then to moscow on monday. i know that many of you will ask what the european union’s role is here – some of you had the chance to ask me that question already in a different meeting – so let me reassure you from the beginning that what we are trying to do is to make sure that, with the presidency format and the normandy format, this is taking place in a framework of european union efforts. this means that the channels of communication are not only for information but also for coordination, so that the steps which need to be taken are taken together at different levels. the latvian foreign minister and the french and german foreign ministers are going to report back to the foreign affairs council on monday. obviously we have been in more than close contact over these weeks – not days, but weeks. at the same time, as i said in my hearing before the european parliament before taking office, it is time for the union to reflect on a less reactive, and a more proactive, approach in our relations with russia. this is why the foreign affairs council on monday will start a strategic discussion on eu-russia relations. the question is not about going back to ‘business as usual’. it is very clear to all of us – and here again there is unity – that there is no going back to anything. on the other hand, however, we need first of all to share positions and considerations and not leave matters of political or technical dialogue to individual national considerations. we need to work in a coordinated way, and not only in relation to the instruments we have for engaging russia on implementation of the minsk agreement. we have used the osce, we can use the normandy format and we can use the latvian presidency, in a common european union framework, and we have been engaged in discussions here, always in coordination with president tusk and president juncker. at the same time, we need to assess together – all 28 member states and the commission – all the instruments that we have for engaging russia with positive leverage. that does not mean that we are offering something: it means that we have to be aware of all the different channels that were open, were closed, were frozen or suspended. we need to be aware of what stage we are at, on different tracks, for example with regard to foreign policy – because we do discuss with russia issues such as the iranian talks, syria and the middle east process, processes that are within the un security council framework. the americans do this, as do individual member states, and we need a common framework for doing that in a more transparent and coherent way. when it comes to other forms of dialogue, for example at technical level – think of the efforts the european union has made on facilitating an energy agreement between the russian federation and ukraine – or in relation to other elements, we need to review where we are, at what stage we are on different aspects, and what can be used in positive or negative terms to try to influence, in the best possible way, a change in russian behaviour on ukraine. i will stop here, listen to your comments and then reply at the end of the debate.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully understand the objections of mrs harms and i certainly agree with her on russia's responsibilities and the need for territorial integrity. i would just ask you to recall that in the east and in the donbass region fascist and even neo-nazi paramilitary forces have acted and are acting and that the azov battalion in particular is directly subordinate to the ministry of the interior in kiev.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the ukrainian crisis is another paradoxical episode. it seems that in this parliament you can only be pro-poroshenko or pro-putin, white or black. personally, we in the five star movement do not want to join either club, but would like to apply for the objectivity club instead. on the chessboard, i see above all a clash between the superpower that is anxious to maintain its hegemony over the world and an ancient superpower that is now decadent but inflamed by the ambition to regain a global role. in the middle of ukraine: a country deeply fractured along the southwest-northeast axis. russia is playing the conflict freeze game because what it could easily take by force would cost it too much in terms of geopolitical isolation and thus aims to wear out the adversary. the us-eu axis is in the grip of a feverish race to the far east, whatever the cost! for the ukrainians, who risk economic suicide, and for us, who have never developed a real alternative energy policy. the budget seems very clear to me: we lose almost everyone, we certainly lose the europeans, the russians and the ukrainians; the only ones who benefit are the chinese, who are increasingly tempted by the advantage of a strategic alliance with russia, which we have unnaturally induced, and the united states, which is leading us towards shale gas and increased military spending. i do not think that is in our interest, but perhaps some of you here think that you are not in the european parliament but in the third chamber in washington!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the attack yesterday on a bus carrying civilians, in which 13 people lost their lives, is yet another violation of the minsk protocol, for which the civilian population is unfortunately paying the highest price. the resulting setback in the peace process is very dramatic. i would stress two points which are essential to the imminent management of the conflict: the european union must strengthen its commitment to ensuring that humanitarian aid to eastern ukraine is delivered in full compliance with international humanitarian law, in neutrality and in close coordination with the ukrainian government, the un and the central committee of the red cross; the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. in addition, ukraine urgently needs to focus its efforts on political, economic and social reforms. today is not the time to push ukraine into nato.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 2015: we are launching the year of development and it is certainly a commendable initiative, it has certainly been something positive in terms of communication, it has certainly been good results in the past, in terms of access to clean water, in terms of access to sanitation, in terms of improving the standard of living in some of the developing countries. the problem is: what do we mean by development, ladies and gentlemen? because the impression i have is that we are a bit hypocritical when we face this issue, because we let our european corporations go, to go and create commendable damage in these countries that we then want to help, instead, probably, in the year of development - so in 2015 - the communication we should be making to our citizens about awareness of a decrease in growth, so a more reasonable consumption, because we use the resources of those countries that we then want to help.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this will be a crucial year for development policy: we have just inaugurated the european year of development in riga and there will be many important events, as you have already mentioned, the one in paris, the one in addis ababa, the expo in milan, which must be a european event that must lead to a great reflection on the issues of world hunger and food waste, but above all there will be the expiry of the millennium goals and the definition of the new sustainable development goals which will be, as i mentioned earlier, finally universal, finally valid for everyone and therefore also for us. this parliament has adopted a very ambitious position, which relaunches the most innovative objectives such as the fight against inequalities and gender equality. i believe that the issue of inequality is the biggest issue of our time and it's crucial to building a future that is truly sustainable for the new generations. so let us use this opportunity of the european year of development to better communicate this process and to build it together with society, together with all the stakeholders, and to find the single, strong voice that europe needs to find the leading role it must play in defining the new agenda, and for this we rely especially on you, vice-president mogherini, and also on commissioner mimica.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too thank the council and the commission for this initiative and i have time only for two very brief remarks. the first is this: we must put this year of development into context and we must unfortunately put it into context with the tragic events that have taken place in these days, which have, however, revealed a scenario to the eyes of many citizens who were unaware of the barbarism, backwardness, poverty and different living conditions in many parts of the world. so we also use this opportunity to be able to explain what is in the world, how people live, what needs today a large part of the world's population carries and we make sure, through initiatives, conferences and actions in schools, that the value of cooperation is understood, its function, to say that a fairer world is not only a fairer world but also a safer world, it is a world perhaps also better in our interest, that these are not resources taken from us but are resources to make the world a more equitable reality for everyone. the second thing, the expo thing, was said: the european union is present at expo, the commission is the rapporteur, and the themes of expo must become the themes of international cooperation. feeding the planet means confronting goals, it means confronting disparities and many other things, it's not that easy and it's not a given. i ask that the commission make a strong effort to ensure that this whole subject is brought into expo.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in egypt (2014/3017 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, egypt is today the eye of a cyclone which is shaking the whole of the middle east and a large part of north africa. there is still a lot of work to be done in the country on the rule of law, freedom of expression, freedom of sexual orientation and assembly, civil and political rights. we must not hide ourselves, among sincere friends the task is precisely to be a mirror and bring to the attention of the other all the necessary constructive criticism, but we must also be objective and recognize the great role played by egypt in the fight against terrorism, in the conclusion of a truce between israel and palestine that has put an end to a bloodbath, the situation of great economic and social fragility that afflicts the country, some signs of détente and attention to religious minorities. it is not enough, but it is progress! the timing of this resolution should therefore not be read as an early warning of the forthcoming elections, but as a stimulus, an invitation to a sound more for more approach in the context of the southern partnership. if in the coming months there are no steps forward which are now inevitable, then it will be time to criticize and with all the force necessary. instead, tonight we call for a great and immediate effort, the release of the imprisoned journalists and bloggers in the country, to give the right echo to the wind of freedom that inspired the revolution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that egypt is a key country in the region, a country which has played and can play an important role. the proximity to the islamic state hotbed makes the position of this country more delicate and i think we must be aware of this and use the right balance in political positioning. i have no doubt that it is crucial that the democratic transition process in egypt be successfully completed, because this is the best response to the challenges of today, particularly those posed by terrorism, and not that of restricting freedom and rights, but on the contrary of consolidating democracy and rights. in the end, precisely because we consider egypt to be important in the regional context, we need an egypt which takes democratic principles as a constituent element of its future action.
the debate is closed. i would inform you that the motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure will be notified subsequently. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 15 january, at 12.30 p.m. before the next and last debate, i want to thank you for your work today, vice-president mogherini. this link with the commission and the council is crucial for the european parliament. thank you very much for your engagement. i think that the demonstration you gave today does you and the institution you represent credit. having worked for several years, including on those benches, i know how difficult it is, but also how important it is for parliament to have attentive and responsible interlocutors. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the case of the two italian seamen (2014/2512 ((rsp)).
vpc/hr. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the members for this debate, which is not only timely but necessary, and for their contributions to the debate. the european union has been following the case of the two italian naval gunners, massimiliano latorre and salvatore girone, in constant contact with the italian government and the indian authorities since the beginning of their detention in india in february 2012. we note with satisfaction today the decision of the indian supreme court to extend the sick leave of massimiliano latorre, which rightly takes into account humanitarian reasons and the serious state of health of the soldier who required serious and urgent medical treatment in italy. we hope that this decision will mark the beginning of a process which will finally lead to a rapid, final, equitable and shared solution in the case of both italian soldiers, massimiliano and salvatore. at the same time, we must regrettably point out that, despite numerous attempts, no progress has been made so far. we therefore understand and share the concerns expressed by many members of the european parliament about a dispute involving two european citizens. this case has been dragging on for three years now, an unacceptable period of time during which the two italian soldiers have been and are still unjustly subjected to measures restricting their personal liberty, in the absence of a charge being laid. this situation of unlawful detention violates fundamental human rights recognised and protected by numerous international conventions. it is worth recalling that the two italian seamen were on board the oil tanker enrica lexie which was crossing international waters to take part in an official mission under international legislation on the fight against piracy and the protection of national shipping. in view of their involvement in the latorre and girona mission, they enjoyed the functional immunity of a state body in the exercise of its functions. this situation implies, in accordance with the principles of general international law, that military personnel on official duty are functionally immune from the exercise of the criminal and international jurisdiction of foreign states. it is no coincidence that the european union has consistently called on india to provide a speedy and positive solution to the dispute, in full compliance with international law and the united nations convention on the law of the sea, unclos, which states that jurisdiction over accidents occurring in international waters lies with the authorities of the flag state of the vessel, in this case italy. presidents van rompuy, barroso and schultz, as well as the high representative vice-president ashton, have raised the issue with their indian counterparts on several occasions in the past, underlining the european union's concerns. i am personally following this case with particular attention in my new role and i intend to use every opportunity to continue to raise it until i finally find a final solution acceptable to all parties. it is important to draw everyone's attention to the fact that cases like this risk having important repercussions on the global fight against piracy, which the european union has been seriously engaged in for some time and should continue to be. the indian navy has often been the target of criminal actions off the coast of somalia and thanks to operation atalanta many hostages have been freed. international cooperation has proved essential to limit the threat of piracy and to respond to attacks. the european union and india therefore share a common interest in protecting freedom of navigation, but the principles of cooperation and mutual trust must be respected. more generally, we share with india strategic values and interests and we wish to cooperate on the world stage, but it is good that everyone is fully aware of how much and how the unresolved dispute over two italian naval officers could impact on the strained relations between the european union and india. the european union wishes to honour its commitment to the full and effective protection of the fundamental rights of its citizens, of every european citizen in detention anywhere in the world, by promoting the peaceful settlement of international disputes and respect for human rights and international law. finally, let me stress that there are not only legal or political considerations involved in this matter. it is also - for some it is first and foremost - a very painful human story for the families of the two indian fishermen who died, to whom we are close, for the two sailors and their families who have been living for three long years in the most complete uncertainty. the situation is becoming more and more intolerable from every point of view, but above all i must say this to the families of the two moro people, to whom i extend my warmest human thoughts, having had the opportunity to be at their side for many months, not only from an institutional point of view but also from a human point of view. we in the european union will therefore continue not only to follow the case closely but also and above all to press everywhere, in close contact with the italian government, for a rapid, positive, shared and definitive solution to the case.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-president, three years have now passed and the fate of our moro is still uncertain, as you have said. today we learn that latorre, who is in italy for treatment, has received a three-month extension of leave is a step forward while girone alas still remains in india. you see, dear vice president, i believe we have these three months to bring our marines home for good before latorre is forced to return to india. he must not go back to india and girone must go back to italy. italy has not been able to bring the two moro back home in these three years, it has never officially asked for help from europe, barroso, ashton, schultz have intervened, as you mentioned, but there has never been a request. the prime minister himself, mr renzi, said yesterday that italy is not coming to europe to ask for help, and instead, mr vice-president, i am asking for help from europe, together with my colleagues, because our moro are as much italian as european. first comes the defence of human rights and then business and economic interests in india. let's get them home as soon as possible and have a fair and speedy trial that takes place in italy or through international arbitration. that is why we are voting tomorrow for the first time on a resolution which will enable you to facilitate the solution of this matter with the support, for the first time, of the european parliament. dear latorre and girone, you are not alone, europe is with you and we are proving this in words and deeds!
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you, mrs mogherini, for the things you have said, for your style and for the role you play. i think it is worth stressing the point of this resolution, which deals with the case of the moroi involved in this sad accident which unfortunately resulted in two victims. i mean, it is not and does not want to be a hostile resolution to india and the indian people towards whom our feeling of friendship goes. it is a resolution calling for a balanced solution to this problem, which has been dragging on for too long. in the meantime, i too welcome the decision of the indian court granting sergeant latorre an extension of his stay in italy for medical reasons. we therefore want to work - that is our objective - to solve the problem by following some guidelines which we consider reasonable in order to overcome the accumulated delays and the case management procedures followed so far. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the territory of the member states. we are asking in the context of relations with india that your office can identify the actions needed to achieve these objectives. we are convinced and hope that the decision of the european parliament tomorrow will be useful in this respect.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that high representative mogherini has taken a strong and decisive stand on this moro affair, on this case which is difficult to judge, but the fact is that these are european citizens and it is right that it should be dealt with as european diplomacy and not italian diplomacy, which has proved to be a failure in this matter. we are talking here - as van orden said very well earlier - not about being judges or lawyers or supporters of one side or the other, it is not politics that should judge whether the moro are guilty or not, it is about applying basic international conventions such as that on civil and political rights and it cannot be accepted in any way that european citizens are left in india without charges, without a trial having been initiated for three years, this is something that cannot be accepted in any rule of law and i think we are all aware of this. i am sorry that we are having this debate at this hour and that there are so few people in the chamber, but i am glad to hear speeches such as that of mrs delli, who has shown herself to be european in her approach to this matter, because if these citizens had been french, german or british, i do not think they would have stayed for three years without any certainty. i believe that italy needs to feel that europe is close and united on this case.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a major national issue and it weighs heavily on the responsibility of those who represented our country in the italian semester: i would have asked the italians to point out to the high representative that the two moroccans are innocent, and this is another kind of dreyfus case. because we don't know why, for example, the radar tracks are not decrypted which would prove that there was a huge jamming here. who knows what's behind this question? it is a national issue which shows how serious, how serious the consequences are of the loss of national sovereignty and here also the offence to the dignity of the uniform, the history of a great national navy such as the italian navy. we must have the courage to say clearly that there are these responsibilities and these reflections, that they must be made because sovereignty is an important thing. we have given it away, we have distributed it to an institution which, despite the goodwill and even the maternal tone of our high representative, whose personal commitment i must acknowledge, has so far achieved nothing. this is the real world! then we remember that one of the two brave mares is a hostage, they say it clearly, the indian authorities. but pirates or terrorists take hostages, not states! what does europe have to say on this point? europe has a very weak, very imprecise, very general voice, it is useless! i signed the resolution out of patriotism, to stay out of it, but it's no use, it takes more than that! the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to achieve their goals. this is the 8th of september of politics... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs mogherini, as we have said, the two italian sailors are two european citizens who have been illegally detained in one country for too long, accused of a heinous crime without any evidence, awaiting a trial or a judgment that no one knows if or when it will come. i am glad to see that we are all in agreement on this and have spoken more or less the same words. i wish there were no words left and i wonder why nothing has been done in these three years and only now is europe moving. because you see, india is violating the right to a fair trial that is enshrined in the international civil rights convention that it signed and the european union is just coming out of it ridiculous. because, ladies and gentlemen, all the speeches, all the commitments and all the conventions we fill our mouths with in this parliament are just scraps of paper if we do not first ensure that they are respected. europe is also the world's leading trading power and is currently negotiating a free trade agreement with india. we of the five star movement, of which i am the spokesman at the moment, are prepared to call for a freeze on the negotiations if our two moro are not given a fair trial and returned to italy. european citizens in difficulty have the right - whoever they are and wherever they are - to have a europe that supports them and does everything possible to bring them home, and we will bring them home.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, speaking of the moro, let us see who is in the chamber, because we have already started badly, mrs mogherini. these are the two maros: if you remember them, you see them, right? do your relatives know them? we're here to talk about the mares, after three years at 11:35. there are four cats in this room. is that how you talk about the maroons? it's a disgrace! europe should be ashamed of the way it is handling this situation. instead, tomorrow morning we will discuss kyrgyzstan's problems on the law against homosexual propaganda which is very important unlike the moro. but what is europe? is it an ostrich that buries its head in the sand? it's a disgrace! mrs. mogherini, as the foreign minister of italy, what did you do for the marrocos? now she comes here, she did the right thing, as she's paid for, all day in here. but for the maroons, what exactly did he do? i 'll tell you what . i'm not going anywhere! like the chart! if i were a professor today i would give you zero because you have zero and because one moro is still in india and the other is only here in italy (not here because we are in strasbourg) because he has a heart problem. italy has zero. you and renzi have failed.
for information, it is not the role of the high representative to set the agenda and the business of parliament. mr buonanno, we have heard you, and since there is something on the agenda, which is parliament's business, i repeat, it is not the commission or the council's responsibility to set the agenda and the proceedings.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high commissioner, like my colleagues, i speak as a member of the european parliament of two european citizens who see their fundamental human rights trampled on in a third country. the two countries have long been held in legal and human uncertainty - as you said - without those basic guarantees of rights for every individual in the world. that is why we must give greater force to the traction, which is also at national level, has been and will continue to be. that strength can come from a european authority which can express itself more forcefully and more vigorously, taking the most effective paths with the most appropriate measures, which we leave to its judgment. very comforted by his words and the way he said them. i don't know if it's motherly, but it's certainly the way of a very conscious and very humane politician. we are aware of the complexity and the sensitivity of the case, which is why we do not ask for the moon, nor do we ask for acts of opposition to the institutions or words of opposition to the institutions or the people of a country which, because of the uncertainty of its judicial organs, is holding these two european citizens. we only ask, and it's little but it's all: the european union is a party to the convention on the rights of the child.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, anyone arrested or detained on criminal charges must be brought before a judge as soon as possible and has the right to be tried within a reasonable time or released. this is article 9 of the international covenant on civil and political rights, which india has also signed and ratified. no, ladies and gentlemen, three years is not a reasonable time to start a trial, especially if there is any doubt that the delays are due to reasons of a nature other than legal ones. especially if there's a risk of undue conditioning and pressure. respect for the rule of law is not negotiable and we therefore believe it is more appropriate that they should be tried in italy, or at least that the determination of jurisdiction should be referred to an international arbitration. we do not express any prejudice but we ask for a calm, fair and transparent trial, and we are also humanely close to the families of the indian fishermen, other victims of this sad story. the union cannot fail to address this situation, because massimiliano latorre and salvatore girone are not just two soldiers of italy, they are two european citizens and article 47 of the nice charter cannot remain a dead letter. this resolution was a due act. solidarity with our two maros and their suffering families is a moral duty. it is absolutely imperative to put the rights of european citizens above commercial interests. it is the same for all the member states as it is for europe, human rights are not traded for two rupees. let us never forget that!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that at least two points should be made: the first is that, without wishing to provoke any polemics or provocations, not once in these three years has a group in this parliament tabled a resolution. it is the first time that a woman has spoken, and i believe that we should - without exploiting anything - give credit to those who have raised the issue at this time. i believe that we now have a historic opportunity, a central, fundamental opportunity in the development of this dramatic situation, namely that this parliament can feel united. i believe that the centrality of this aspect must prevail over every other issue, because in times of terror, in times of terrorism, in terms of fear of lack of security, i believe that we must look at these two men as men who worked in security, as men who activated an exercise of role in a situation that is certainly delicate, which tended to defeat acts of piracy, which was precisely aimed at eliminating further criminal and criminal situations. so, there can be no comparison with common criminals or with any criminals or with men to whom one must turn one's back or make comparisons between family grief or the grief of other families. i believe that this centrality must be emphasized, because this parliament can talk about human rights, it can certainly talk about jurisdiction, it can certainly talk about centrality, about the need for sanctions in relation to the strength that the european union can express, but even more so it cannot turn its back on men who risk their lives for the security, not only of their country, but for the security of the whole of europe when they carry out operations and roles of this level. so i believe that in this respect europe must move in the direction in which the various groups have today tried to present their arguments and motivations, but i also believe that, as i know president mogherini, there will be the possibility of making a strong, rigorous, effective turn and finally achieving an unequalled result, namely that of returning the moro to italy so that they can be judged in italy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, for three years we in italy have been living with anguish the story of these two riflemen, massimiliano latorre and salvatore girone, two fellow citizens, two apulians like me. no diplomatic or political solution has been able to bring this matter to an end, in an endless political-diplomatic swings, and our frustration and that of all italian and european citizens has grown over the years. the continuous referrals to the supreme court of india have given evidence of the inefficiency of the indian judiciary, unable to decide. this is an unacceptable situation which represents a serious and perpetrated violation of human rights. i am addressing this assembly, once again, as i have done in previous years, in this very house, to remind you that the two moro are not two terrorists, they are not two criminals: the european union is not a military power, but a military power. i join the high representative, federica mogherini, in congratulating her on the work she has done today, but above all on the commitment she will make to this problem, which hurts us as italians but also as european citizens. so my special thanks to the high representative are very warm, because a few weeks ago she chided new delhi for delaying too long in resolving this case, saying that this could affect eu-india relations. so for the first time since february 15, 2012, a member of the eu government has made his voice heard by threatening retaliation. so, i ask myself: how much longer do we have to wait to see these trade sanctions implemented, when can we see our two riflemen back home, when will this agony be over? and i would like to thank again our foreign colleagues, our estonian colleagues and all those who are taking part in this debate because they remind us that this is not an italian battle, this is a battle to bring back home to europe two citizens, two european soldiers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think there is little to add to the brilliantly expressed views of lara comi and the other members. the story of the two maros is truly paradoxical! it would be tragicomic if the lives and dignity of two italian soldiers, arrested three years ago in the course of an anti-piracy operation in international waters, were not at stake. they were certainly not there, engaged in a simulated softkey war. they were engaged in an operation that allowed italian and european merchant ships to escape the constant onslaught of piracy. india is behaving in a totally irresponsible way, trampling on the most basic principles of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. europe can no longer afford this and must bring the two mares back to italy, suspending - as has been stated by several parties - the negotiations for the free trade agreement with india, where it is expressly provided that europe cannot sign treaties or agreements with countries which do not respect human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be speaking out of turn. i believe that the incident involving the two naval gunners latorre and girone has been constructed around a patriotic rhetoric that is not only not in my strings but i also believe is of little use to the solution of the case. the question is of course very complex and it is a sad legal matter and certainly not a human rights issue. he is right (it seems almost unbelievable to say it) mr. borghese: this is a huge national issue. it is certainly not about the european union, it is certainly not about this parliament and it is certainly not about the very hard work that the high representative is doing, whom i also thank for the day he spent with us, for the things he is doing. for all the crises and files he's dealing with. this is a matter which must remain and be resolved only at the judicial and procedural level.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too am very concerned about the violation of the right to a fair trial and the uncertainty in which the moro have been living for the last three years. i think that the high representative, mrs mogherini, has never really shown that she underestimates the drama of the matter. that said, my voice will also be out of the chorus. i agree with what mrs gill said: the lives of the two indian sailors are worth no less than the lives and honour of the italian riflemen. i think we can judge here, as members of parliament, whether the moro acted rightly or wrongly and what their role was. i therefore have serious doubts about the resolution, because the text does not clearly link the release of the gunmen to the need for a trial, whether international or national. it is a matter of the lengths of indian justice that we are talking about, and i am sorry about that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, thank you for the commitment you have already made. i think it is very important politically to have a strong alliance, for the first time, of parliament and the commission on this painful matter. we are certainly relieved by the recent decision of the indian supreme court to grant a three-month extension of the watchtower's stay in italy on health grounds, but it is truly unacceptable that this situation should persist in violation of international law, as many colleagues have pointed out, with continuous postponement of a solution. we, as italian citizens, appreciated the initiative that the then foreign minister, mogherini, had already taken with international arbitration and which i hope today, in her capacity as high representative for foreign affairs, together with the commission and the council, gives her the strength to take all the initiatives to protect the two gunmen and to guarantee (as i say to my colleague, mr spinelli) an international arbitration. that 's what protection means . i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the situation in the baltic sea, which is a very important subject for the european union.
the debate is closed. i would inform you that the motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure will be notified subsequently. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 15 january, at 12.30 p.m.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too welcome the work that the european ombudsman, emily o'reilly, has done so far and find in her work a genuine desire to bring citizens and the institutions she represents closer together, an institution which was designed for citizens and lives with citizens. i would also like to thank mr wałęsa for his report, but i would like to start by saying something which i think is very important: some 68 out of 100 requests that reach the european ombudsman do not fall within the scope of his mandate. this perhaps tells us how the accessibility and publicity of the european ombudsman should be improved, by using all the means that new technologies put at our disposal to promote the figure of the ombudsman unknown to most and to raise awareness among citizens of their rights and, not least, to clarify the real powers of the european ombudsman. i would also like to address my own country in this regard, and to remind it of some of the records it sadly holds: italy is the only state which has not established a national ombudsman, and it is one of the very few that does not even have a parliamentary committee for petitions. as if all this were not enough, to point out the lack of attention that our institutions have towards the protection of the citizen, i want to remind that with the 2010 financial law a very important figure was also cut, that of the municipal civil defender thus depriving citizens of the closest territorial references they had. i hope that italy will also be seriously urged to remedy this situation, and in particular by following the recommendations in the 2012 annual report of the committee on petitions to establish a network of committees on petitions, including all those in the member states. i therefore thank the european ombudsman and wish him a successful year of work in defence of citizens' rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to congratulate the ombudsman on the work he has done, on the work done by his office, and i believe that a thorough reading of the report will make clear certain points which are of great satisfaction. i too am a new member and i come here to parliament with the desire to see an open europe, a permeable europe, a europe with which the citizens, especially the smallest, the simplest, the weakest, can speak. i am very pleased and very positive that this office and the role of the ombudsman are becoming more and more a constant reference point in people's lives. sometimes when you look at europe, you think of something far away, something that is difficult to talk to, like a monster of bureaucracy. that is why this role is extremely important, because it is concrete proof that this is not so, because it is concrete proof that this is a europe where if you want to know, you can know, if you want to know you can know, if you want transparency you can have transparency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the ombudsman, mrs o'reilly, on her work. the statistics on the role of the european ombudsman record participation in a direct dialogue with citizens which is significant but certainly improving. i welcome a number of important inquiries that the ombudsman has launched such as the investigation into the transparency of the ttip and ceta negotiations, whistleblowing by staff in the eu institutions and transparency in commission expert groups. for the institutions, this means a further boost to respect for the rule of law, the principles of good administration and fundamental rights, by means of a citizen-administration dialogue based on mediation, without recourse to the judicial stage, which represents an appropriate decompression valve for litigation in relations with the institutions. i also think that social media as a channel for communication is essential and i therefore encourage the ombudsman's offices to make greater use of these tools to raise public awareness of the ombudsman's activities and to make his work more usable. citizens' trust in the institutions is essential in the difficult economic environment, so i welcome the new strategy towards 2019 with the proposal of impact and relevance and visibility surveys and i share the desire to see the ombudsman as the guardian of the union's transparency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate both the rapporteur, mr wałęsa and the ombudsman, mrs o'reilly, and wish them well for the future work they will be doing during this term of office, because it is true that the starting point is positive as regards the role of the european ombudsman, but it is also true that we must try to do more, and mr cirio is right when he says that european citizens often and willingly see the european union as something external, distant, difficult to understand and to reach, so perhaps if we centralise and use the role of the european ombudsman well, the citizens themselves can feel closer to this institution and can better understand its role. in this sense, we should try to publicize, to make the complaints and the possibilities of accessing the ombudsman more familiar and easier for the ordinary citizen, who is not interested in international politics.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think that the purpose of this resolution should be to continue to attack russia and its government for violations. yes, we are warning the russian government to respect media freedom, pluralism, freedom of association and to clarify certain cases which, incidentally, are happening in many places in the world. but let us always remember that russia is our neighbour, with whom we should have a dialogue attitude, because it is necessary that the diplomatic role of the european union, which is a great power, should not be to slam the door in the face of someone for a matter of cheerleading or a preconstituted issue. we should try to play our peacemaking role, as we have done within the european union, between states which have been at war for hundreds of years, such as france and england, france and germany, and we should also do the same with regard to russia, and not adopt a preconceived political attitude.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there must be a putin syndrome in this parliament because every time i come to this chamber, we hear about putin, but are you all mad at putin? you guys always talk about this guy who's been in trouble? but why don't we talk about the maroons? what happened that we were talking here at midnight and there were four cats! italian mares, don't you give a shit about italian mares? or, you don't know about the imam of london who came to say beware the imam of london, not of some lost country in africa! who says that whoever speaks evil of muhammad must die and i do so to the imam of london. or, we don't want to talk about this other one dear europeans who look like wet rabbits, you're screwing yourselves! this one here is the one who said that the paris massacre is their fault, al-qaeda zawahiri's, that was, and this one too! you have the courage of a wet rabbit, you must wake up dear europe and you, mogherini, wake up, do not say that you have been here for 8 hours, because an italian worker for 8 a day gets 1,000 euros, you must stay here to work and save the sailors and give an alarm and make sure that islamic terrorism is no more, which is a shame, and you europeans, wake up, this is a parliament of the living dead!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, i come to support the joint resolution negotiated by the main political groups with which the european parliament is once again expressing its concern about freedom of expression and association in russia. the trial and conviction of alexei navalny are too much in the shadows to leave us unresponsive, and europe, which must work, as the high commissioner for the restoration of relations with russia is doing, cannot fail to make its voice heard in this case in order to reaffirm respect for rights and freedoms. europe is also, with this resolution, committing itself to increasing its financial commitment to support independent ngos, so as not to allow the deadlock between brussels and moscow to harm - and this would be truly paradoxical! - even those organisations which are at the forefront of freedom of expression.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the navalny case demands the full attention of the european parliament and the commission, because it is considered an abuse of the rights to freedom of speech and because the corrupt russian judiciary is being used to keep him locked up and to silence political opposition. this is not right and the european parliament should do something to protect this injustice.
author of the book. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a very terrible situation, what happened in peshawar, because in my opinion such an attack cannot even be attributed to mankind. we are talking about teachers being burned alive in front of students, children being burned alive, we are talking about 150 innocent victims, children whose lives have been taken for no reason, in the name of a principle that we cannot understand. i think we are all unanimous, we all agree, that we have to fight a battle that is not a battle of pakistan, but a battle against a type of humanity that is deviant, against a type of human beings that can't possibly even be considered human beings. i welcome the proposal by mr bashir, who has asked for a symbolic commitment to ensure that the same number of victims - which should be 143 - are made available in hospital beds to give a symbolic signal to those who take the lives of these children.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a little over a year ago a young woman addressed this house with a passionate appeal, arguing that the strength of a country is not measured by its army but by the education of its people. these kids don't want an iphone, an xbox, a playstation or chocolates, they just want a book, a pencil and a pen. i apologize to all these children for not being able to protect them! what has changed, mr president, since the day the sakharov prize was awarded to malala, that we are still commemorating 134 young students and innocent victims who were guilty of exercising their fundamental right to education? how many children do we have to cry before the pakistani authorities develop a real strategy to prevent radicalization and combat the education crisis? every school destroyed and replaced by another of radical origin represents a defeat for civilization and the premise for further entrenchment of islamic extremism in the country.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the attack by the fundamentalist taliban on a school in peshawar, pakistan, which caused the death of over 140 innocent people, most of them children, has caused us all great horror and dismay. the world must react with great determination and religion cannot be the key to explaining so much violence, in many cases it has been the language of leaders who have promoted change in a progressive sense, i remember the dalai lama, martin luther king, the buddhist aung san su kyi, the lutheran poet dietrich bonhoeffer, unfortunately this is not the case in pakistan. in this country, after the massacre, the army regains a political role, it is argued that democracy does not work and that the only institution that can really govern the country is the army. i find it regrettable, for example, that hateful laws such as the blasphemy law are still in force, and also the recent decision by the pakistani government to lift the moratorium on the death penalty following the attacks on the school in peshawar. it is clear that europe has not done all it could have done, and now is the time to show that this institution has the strength to confront a terrible evil like terrorism and at the same time defend fundamental rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, more than 140 people have died, 134 of them were students, or even children, and the same number were injured. the scars on the body will heal, perhaps, those on the soul, perhaps never! the massacre in peshawar is not just the massacre of fanaticism, brutality and violence, it is the massacre of fear, because the taliban extremism knows very well that the only weapon they can never defeat is the weapon of culture. that is why the answer cannot be the summary justice evoked by many in pakistan. i understand the anger, i understand the feeling of revenge of the families, we send them our condolences and our closeness, but the state of pakistan cannot commandeer democracy nor eradicate the rule of law, it must not stoop to their level. the real message to be sent, ladies and gentlemen, to those who use violence as a tool of government, of propaganda, is to work with pakistan so that for every child who dies there is a new school in the country, so that it is clear that the spirit of malala lives and will live forever in our consciences.
in writing. the december 16, 2014 attack on the peshawar military academy, which killed over 140 people, most of them children, shocked the world with its cruelty and inhumanity, revealing once again the dire situation facing pakistan. we therefore wish to express our deep concern at a country in which terrorism and religious extremism are taking precedence over fundamental rights. it is therefore necessary that the european union, and in particular the commission, should not stand idly by and take concrete action to counter these phenomena, showing that it is a real force for peace, freedom and human dignity, and also to give concrete and real effect to the words spoken by pope francis in strasbourg.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, it seems quite absurd to me that in 2015, we are still having to debate laws that discriminate against sexual orientation or gender identity, and it is really bad to think that in 78 countries around the world it is a crime to be part of the lgbt community, and that in another 40 countries around the world this community suffers violations and discrimination. we are talking about a bill from the parliament of kyrgyzstan which is represented by many colleagues as a parliamentary democracy in progress and which has introduced such a law which is absolutely medieval. we should use our diplomatic power, including through the high representative who is here in the chamber, to make it clear to the kyrgyz parliament that it is absolutely unacceptable to push through such laws, which discriminate against a human right, because the right to love is simply a human right.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, the ban on the promotion of non-traditional sexual relations is a poor linguistic attempt to disguise absurd discrimination! i still find it hard to believe that in the third millennium it is still possible to go to prison for a year simply for wanting to be yourself. it is already intolerable that there is rampant discrimination in society, to imagine that a state would arrogate such a right, by the way, in violation of its own constitution in article 16, is simply aberrant. and to say that kyrgyzstan was one of the least backward states in central asia, having decriminalized male homosexuality in 1997 and female homosexuality in 2004. in many cases, they were fleeing turkmenistan and uzbekistan, and now they have no safe harbor. i believe that we must all stand against this bill, which is not only against human rights but against common sense, and put pressure on kyrgyzstan to get back on track, we must support its vibrant civil society and remind the kyrgyz government that to have a strong and healthy relationship with the union, we must also live up to our motto: unity in diversity
madam president, there has been a lot of talk about this. i will only say that i am very pleased that we are discussing this point here today and that the high representative, mrs mogherini, can hear our clear and unequivocal views on this point. i, like many others, see kyrgyzstan as the country that has made the most progress towards democracy in central asia. worse still, this medieval law is on the table of the kyrgyz parliament today. unfortunately, i see a very strong influence from russia, which has already passed a similar law, and the practice of this law clearly shows how it can be abused against minorities and how it significantly suppresses human rights. and please bear in mind that the kyrgyz draft law is even worse than the one currently in force in russia, because for spreading, promoting and expressing freedom of speech, someone can be sentenced to up to one year in prison. please condemn this law and if it is adopted, it is clear that we must continue to deal with it and the european union must take a clear position towards kyrgyzstan, even in the form of a possible cooling of relations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has devoted a great deal of resources to the development of kyrgyzstan, and yet today we are discussing an aberrant draft law proposed by that government on the dissemination of information on non-traditional sexual relations. it is a homophobic proposal, it is a proposal that goes against our principles, we do not joke about these issues, they are fundamental to our idea of freedom and rights. everyone should be able to express themselves without being threatened or limited except by not having to harm other human beings. the right to express one's sexual orientation is not a concession to the so-called different, but an enrichment of society, of its life as a whole, which chooses not to mutilate a part of its energies and potentials.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, some of you may ask why we feel the need to write this resolution. they might object that it is not interesting to deal with a lost country in the heart of asia. we are interested, ladies and gentlemen, because the task of the european union, of this institution which is the fruit of thousands of years of history, is also to protect the principle of equality and non-discrimination between people. that is why i express my strongest regret at the adoption by the kyrgyz parliament of the law on the prohibition of the direct and indirect promotion of non-traditional sexual relations in its first reading. we cannot turn a blind eye to a clearly homophobic campaign of discrimination. europe has too often subordinated respect for human rights to economic partnerships, and that is why we hope that the european institutions will formally demand the withdrawal of the law.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, very quickly, a new recital should be added to recital h, which reads as follows: "whereas on 14 january 2015 the supreme court granted sergeant latorre an extension of his stay in italy for medical reasons".
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we should simply add a vowel to paragraph 5 to avoid the two cases being alternatives, between the jurisdiction of the italian authorities and that of an international arbitration; it's about adding "and/or", so a simple vowel, but it doesn't make the two alternatives.
in writing. i did not intend to support the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2013 with my face because i consider it to be unbalanced and partly instrumentalised by the rapporteur.
in writing. — i voted yes because i agree with the content of the report on the activities of the european ombudsman.
in writing. negative vote as the text mentions that in 2013 the ombudsman submitted a special report on the absence of a mechanism in the frontex agency to deal with complaints about alleged violations of the rights of asylum seekers. the issue has been exploited by the far left (who also tabled an amendment specifically referring to the frontex special report). the lega nord is aware of the limitations of frontex, but it believes that they are not necessarily those of the absence of a mechanism to which immigrants should appeal.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report today because i approve the 2013 annual report presented by the european ombudsman. the role of the ombudsman is crucial because it brings citizens closer to the institutions of the european union, which is particularly important given the current situation of disconnection. i welcome a number of important inquiries that the ombudsman has launched, such as those on transparency in the negotiations for a transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip), whistleblowing by staff in the eu institutions and transparency in commission expert groups. i believe that social media are essential as a channel for communication and therefore encourage the ombudsman's offices to make greater use of these means to raise public awareness of his activities and to make his institution as accessible as possible. i note with concern that the share of complaints concerning the european commission has increased sharply compared to 2012. the reasons behind this increase should be examined by the ombudsman in order to strengthen the credibility of the commission itself.
in writing. the european ombudsman's work in 2013 was mainly focused on the work of the commission (accounting for 64.3% of open inquiries). this can only reassure us about the role of the mediator. the vote is in favour.
in writing. as i have already had the opportunity to say in my speech during the debate, i find that mrs o'reilly has done a very good job during her first term, and, as she notes today, particularly in 2013. the statistics on his work are encouraging and show excellent ability, but i would like to make his work more public so that this figure becomes increasingly an important reference for citizens who interact with european institutions which, to the physical distance, often add a sidereal distance in terms of languages and bureaucratic obstacles. thank you, mediator!
in writing. i voted in favour of the ombudsman's annual activity report for 2013 because it shows that the ombudsman has launched 350 inquiries into possible instances of maladministration by the main european institutions. these figures justify a positive assessment of the ombudsman's work, since, under article 228 tfeu, any citizen may turn to the ombudsman if he wishes to be protected in the event of maladministration by the european institutions or bodies. on the other hand, its role is fundamental in improving the union and in strengthening the relationship of trust between citizens and the european institutions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2013. however, i urge the ombudsman to continue his efforts to improve communication channels and to improve information for european citizens so that they are aware of the ombudsman's services and his area of competence. i also welcome a number of important inquiries that the ombudsman has launched, such as the inquiries into transparency in the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) negotiations. i hope that this work will be carried out in the spirit of transparency, as has been repeatedly requested and desired by me and the five star movement.
in writing. i cannot vote for the report this year because it has been exploited by including provisions on frontex which i consider inappropriate. that is why i shall vote against it.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of mr walesa's report because i think the contribution made by the european ombudsman in 2013 is adequate. it was designed to ensure that community citizens were properly included in the european decision-making process. in 2013, the european ombudsman contacted 23 245 citizens from different eu member states who received appropriate online assistance. topics covered in 2013 include transparency, ethical issues, eu-funded projects and programmes, fundamental rights and service culture, and citizen participation in eu decision-making.
in writing. i voted in favour of the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2013. we express our support for the activities of the european ombudsman, whose role is essential in helping the institutions of the european union to become more transparent, effective and, above all, closer to the citizen. it is essential to ensure that citizens' rights are fully respected. respect for rights is one of the essential principles for creating and maintaining trust in the european civil service.
in writing. i have decided to support, by voting in favour, the wałęsa report, which approves the terms of the ombudsman's work in 2013, as i consider the contribution made by the european ombudsman during the year to be adequate. it is worth noting that during the reporting period, the european ombudsman offered his advice to almost 24 000 community citizens who wished to assert their rights in areas such as transparency, ethical issues and fundamental rights.
in writing. we express our full support for the activities of the european ombudsman, as he plays a key role in helping the institutions of the european union to become more transparent, effective and closer to the citizens, thus strengthening citizens' trust in the union itself. we consider it a priority to ensure that citizens' rights are fully respected and that the right to good administration reflects the highest standards expected of the union's institutions, bodies or agencies. transparency, openness, access to information, respect for citizens' rights and high ethical standards are essential principles for creating and maintaining trust in the european public service. transparency is a cornerstone of an advanced democracy, insofar as it allows the activities of public authorities to be examined, their performance assessed and they to be held accountable for their actions. we also agree with the opening up of documents and public access to them, but we also reiterate our firm support for the right of citizens to privacy and the protection of their personal data. finally, we wish to reaffirm the importance of the european citizens' initiative, which was introduced by the treaty of lisbon, as a new instrument for the direct participation of citizens in the decision-making process when european legislation is being drawn up.
in writing. whereas the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2013 has been amended to reflect the desire to make the institution of the ombudsman as accessible and user-friendly as possible; whereas at the presentation of his annual report to the committee on petitions, the ombudsman outlined his new strategy 'towards 2019', which strategy is based on three main concepts of impact, relevance and visibility; whereas on the basis of these concepts, the ombudsman aims to conduct more strategic inquiries into systemic issues (impact), to strengthen the role of the ombudsman by actively contributing to key eu discussions (relevance), and to increase the institution's visibility by improving its openness towards stakeholders and highlighting and drawing public attention to important cases (visibility); whereas my vote is in favour of this.
in writing. the current european ombudsman, emily oreilly, was elected by the european parliament in july 2013 but was sworn in, as usual, on 30 september. the annual report on which we are voting therefore clearly relates to the work of his predecessor, mr nikiforos diamandouros. i think the report is clear, but it could be improved to make it more and more comprehensive. topics covered in 2013 are of key importance, such as transparency, ethical issues, citizen participation in eu decision-making, eu-funded projects and programmes and fundamental rights. i also welcome the new 'towards 2019' strategy, which has as its main and most important points: impact, where the ombudsman aims to make more strategic inquiries into systemic issues, relevance, strengthens the role of the ombudsman by actively contributing to key eu discussions and visibility, i.e. increasing the visibility of his institution where he draws public attention to important cases.
in writing. - i decided to vote against because the text mentions that in 2013 the ombudsman submitted a special report on the absence of a mechanism in the frontex agency to deal with complaints about alleged violations of the rights of asylum seekers. the lega nord is aware of the limitations of frontex, but it believes that they are not necessarily those of the absence of a mechanism to which immigrants should appeal.
in writing. - i support the new ombudsman's declaration that he is willing to help strengthen the european institutions in the area of transparency, which must be at the top of the list of priorities, as well as ethical issues, citizen participation in eu decision-making, projects funded by the union and the culture of service. i strongly believe in the importance of the citizens' initiative as a new tool for direct participation in the decision-making process during the development of european legislation and i support the various inquiries that the ombudsman has launched, such as the findings on transparency in the negotiations for a transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip), whistleblowing by employees of the european institutions, transparency in commission expert groups and fundamental rights in cohesion policy. in this regard, it is important to emphasise that social media is increasingly a key communication tool that should be strengthened in order to raise public awareness of the activities of the european ombudsman, while ensuring equal access to information for those who are excluded from such channels. for the reasons i have outlined, i therefore supported the report.
in writing. the intensification of violence that we witness daily in libya is hindering the joint efforts of the international community to achieve a peaceful solution to the war and its dramatic repercussions, first and foremost the massive and ongoing violation of human rights, the growing extremist threat and the political instability of the entire north african region. parliament reiterated that the efforts of the official tobruk government, international diplomacy and un mediation led by special representative bernardino léon support a transparent and inclusive political dialogue, the only instrument to try to initiate a credible democratic transition. there is no alternative to dialogue: the participation of all parties involved in libya is the first, fundamental step to initiate a constructive peace process in the country. we therefore reiterate the need for an immediate ceasefire and support a renewed commitment to coordinate eu action, aid and cooperation from neighbouring countries and the united nations. once an agreement has been reached, we hope that european security and defence policy will take real, united and effective action to support the libyan people in ensuring unity, governance and stability. that is why i wholeheartedly support the motion for a resolution on which we are voting today.
in writing. — i voted yes on the motion for resolution because i consider fundamental the eu’s actions to combat international terrorism and achieve a peaceful solution to the conflict in libya.
in writing. abstention from voting: the solution to the current conflict cannot be a military one; reiterates its condemnation of the 2011 military intervention in libya that led to the current situation of chaos and violence.
in writing. today i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in libya to call on the eu to step up its efforts to improve the conditions of a country which is becoming a non-state. the bloody chaos in tripoli, benghazi and other libyan cities in recent months has led to serious human rights violations, including indiscriminate attacks against civilians and the forced displacement of some 290,000 people within the country and has resulted in the flight of over 100,000 citizens to neighbouring countries. the second round of talks held in geneva between libyan factions did not produce tangible results, partly because key interlocutors such as the islamists of the libyan dawn (fajir) coalition and the misrata brigades did not participate in the discussions. the negotiations will only be able to bring about a government of national unity if they can count on broad support. i therefore ask the un special envoy for libya, bernardino leon, to expand participation in the talks to include all parties to the conflict.
in writing. the political response in the case of libya must involve mainly moderate islam: the european union is not a party to the conflict, but a party to the peace process.
in writing. the echo of the gunfire in libya is clearly and distinctly heard on our shores, through the boats of migrants, endangering our security and the lives of these same people. the southern shore of the mediterranean is a powder keg, and libya is reluctantly doing its part to make the situation hotter. i voted in favour of this resolution in the hope that we will soon see a solution in the interests of all. it is a pity that this resolution adds to the rivers of ink already spilled and that it will not be able to make a concrete contribution, but within the limits of the powers of the european parliament it is an absolutely necessary act.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because today libya is a country torn apart by heavy armed clashes between militias of opposing factions and government forces. meanwhile, suicide bombings and kidnappings of westerners have occurred. the presence of isis is also very strong and is proving to be a real threat to the european territory. i believe that europe's active presence is necessary to initiate and promote all possible forms of dialogue that can promote a democratic and peaceful solution to the conflict. we must not forget that there is no border control in libya, and so the flow of illegal immigrants to european, and especially italian, coasts seems to be endless. given the situation in libya, those who arrive on our shores may no longer be simply 'refugees' seeking to save their lives, but there could be infiltrations of terrorist cells, which should be prevented through a constant commitment by the european institutions.
in writing. the libyan crisis is becoming increasingly critical due to severe internal polarization and the ongoing spiral of violence. successive governments have failed to rein in the armed militias that filled the vacuum left by the ousting of gaddafi's government in 2011. serious violations of human rights and international humanitarian law are reported on a daily basis with disastrous consequences for civilians. the libyan outbreak is responsible for a large proportion of the migration flows. solving the problem must be a priority for this europe which acts alone and always in emergency situations. i am voting in favour of this resolution because the european union must do everything in its power to help end the violence in libya and hold the perpetrators of these atrocities to account, including by condemning the recent violence which undermines the prospects for a negotiated solution. the protection of civilians must be a priority. libya cannot continue to drown in blood.
in writing. less than four years after the nato intervention that led to the removal of leader muammar gaddafi, the situation in libya shows no signs of improvement. i have supported this motion for a resolution because i believe that a solution must be found to the conflict between the various parties vying for power in the libyan territory.
in writing. the nato intervention resulted in the death of innocent civilians, a humanitarian crisis and widespread destruction, which led to the complete destabilisation of the libyan state and an ongoing civil war. now libya is completely unstable and the increasing violence has plunged libya into a state of chaos and total war. europe must take its responsibilities.
in writing. i supported the motion for a resolution on the current situation in libya in the light of the escalation of violence between armed groups, the massive and systematic violations of human rights, the increase in the number of displaced persons, refugees and migrants seeking safe landing on our shores. the security of the whole region and of mediterranean europe cannot be separated from the stability of a country so close to us that it is in danger of becoming a failed state. in this context, the european parliament must support the legitimately elected libyan house of representatives and an inclusive national political dialogue process. we therefore declare our solidarity with the libyan people.
in writing. the broad support of this house for the resolution is a reaffirmation of our full solidarity with the libyan people. the same people who took to the streets in 2011 to demand civil and political rights and who got in return indiscriminate repression by the state. a people who are victims of terrorist groups linked to al-qaeda, of islamic state militias and of other extremist organizations and movements that are spreading terror and violence and are leading the country into a destructive chaos. the innocent victims of this war are joined by the thousands of migrants and refugees fleeing violence and persecution who have lost their lives in the mediterranean trying to reach europe. and the millions of migrants displaced in neighbouring countries, such as tunisia, and in the european territory, especially in italy. support international peacemaking efforts for an unconditional ceasefire and initiate a reconciliation process aimed at bringing rival groups together in an inclusive national political dialogue without delay. the credibility of europe and the entire international community is at stake.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the resolution tabled by mrs gabriel, as it calls on the european union to implement, in a short time, sanctions aimed at preventing further armed violence and human rights violations in libya. the reference to the need to support concrete actions, such as the freezing of assets to the detriment of the perpetrators of terrorist acts, aimed at weakening the influence of the latter within the country, is particularly acceptable. this strategy could also have a positive effect on migration, which would undoubtedly be affected by the improvement in the situation in libya.
in writing. the participation of all parties involved in libya is the first, fundamental step to initiate a constructive peace process in the country. serious violations of human rights and international humanitarian law are reported on a daily basis with disastrous consequences for civilians. solving the problem must be a priority for the eu; we cannot continue to tolerate this wave of violence in libya.
in writing. this resolution calls on the european union to implement, within a limited timeframe, sanctions aimed at preventing further armed violence and human rights violations in libya. the reference to the need to support concrete actions, such as the freezing of assets to the detriment of the perpetrators of terrorist acts, aimed at weakening their influence within the country, is particularly acceptable. for all these reasons i felt it was my duty to give my consent to this document.
in writing. libya is in a state of chaos today, with two different political authorities (only one of which is democratically legitimized by national elections) and at the mercy of terrorists and other criminal groups. we strongly urge the cessation of all hostilities and the parties involved to commit themselves to promoting a constructive political dialogue at national level. we consider the role played by the un special representative, mr bernadino léon, to be fundamental in promoting dialogue between the various warring factions in the search for a peaceful mediation of the conflict, and we deplore the unjustified postponement of the new round of peace negotiations which had been scheduled for the beginning of january. we cannot ignore the fact that armed violence and the absence of a single political authority, recognised by all parties, represent a serious danger not only to the stability of the whole region but also to the security of europe and all the neighbouring countries. we therefore stress the need for joint diplomatic action by all the member states, which have hitherto acted individually, under the aegis of our high representative for foreign affairs, federica mogherini, who can certainly play a key role in mediating the conflict.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, in view of the european parliament's previous decisions on the situation in libya and the 1949 geneva convention, which requires respect for international humanitarian law in all circumstances, in view of the demonstrations in february 2011 in which libyan citizens demanded respect for and guarantees of their rights and which triggered nine months of internal conflict, in view of the increasing attacks on civilians and human rights violations, which in some cases are defined as real war crimes, and in view of the call for an end to all armed conflict and for dialogue between the two sides, i am voting in favour for these reasons.
in writing. repression, violence, political divisions: in libya, we have been in the middle of a civil war for far too long. first the conflict that led to the fall of gaddafi, now the internal power struggles. i voted for this resolution because it is europe's duty to put an end to this situation, which is a violation of human rights and international humanitarian law. over 400,000 displaced people and 150,000 libyans leaving their country for neighbouring tunisia: the figures from international organizations paint a very worrying picture. libya is now the scene of violent political clashes in a territory where, in fact, two rival parliaments and numerous opposing factions of nationalist, islamic, tribal and regionalist forces operate. the european union, by ensuring support for the tobruk house of representatives as the only legitimate body emerging from the 2014 elections, must play a central role in condemning these actions and imposing targeted sanctions against those responsible for the violence.
in writing. the libyan crisis has become increasingly critical over time due to the severe internal polarization that has degenerated into a full-blown civil war, resulting in the destruction of any semblance of state system and the detonation of a serious humanitarian emergency. i hope very much that the third session of the dialogue, with the mediation of the un, will take place as soon as possible, without further delay and postponement, and that the warring parties will be able to find common ground on the agenda and the main elements of the agenda: the establishment of a government of national unity, a ceasefire and the gradual withdrawal of the militias, and the safeguarding of the constituent assembly's path to the adoption of a fundamental charter by referendum. i also hope that a new super partes prime minister will be appointed to head a government of national unity which can put an end to the chaos and violence of this period. the lack of a stable institutional partner with full control over the african country has led to serious immigration problems in italy and europe, while when an agreement was concluded with the libyan authorities, there was a decrease in migration flows to italian and european coasts.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution tabled by my group, the epp, on the situation in libya because i consider it a sincere statement and necessary at a delicate time like the one we are living through. we must create effective security forces to ensure the safety of all and to block the possibility of an escalation of attacks, as we are sadly witnessing these days.
in writing. — i supported the motion because i believe that the eu may find a solution to the critical situation in ukraine and open a dialogue with russia.
in writing. voted against: strongly condemns the coup d'état in ukraine and denounces its promotion and support by the european union, the united states and nato; the conditions under which the subsequent elections took place, with open violation of political and civil rights and widespread persecution and repression of the russian-speaking population, are denounced.
in writing. today i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in ukraine to call on the eu to renew its support for the sovereignty, territorial integrity, unity and independence of ukraine, and to condemn the continued flow of arms and troops from russia, which must be stopped immediately. at the same time, ukraine must demonstrate commitment to the reform plan: fiscal consolidation, continuation of banking and energy sector reforms, fight against corruption, transparency and judicial reform. the european strategy must be based on two guidelines: the eu-ukraine association process on the one hand; the council also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, which calls on the commission to take all necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is resolved. and i am convinced that the political instrument to be adopted is political dialogue with russia.
in writing. ukraine is a victim of the strategic choices of two opposing power blocs: on the one hand, the us-eu axis, on the other, vladimir putin's russia. the association agreement with the european union was signed in too much haste, putting all ukrainians in the crossfire of economic and territorial interests of the two sides and creating a rift between the european union and russia, although the former lacks a safe and credible energy strategy alternative to the import of hydrocarbons from the russian federation. a political solution is in the interest of all the member states of the union.
in writing. if ukraine is quiet, we all benefit: ukrainian citizens first, because they could focus on their work to improve their situation; we are not going to be able to do that, because we have a reliable trading partner as our neighbour, both for exports and for imports of raw materials and semi-finished products, and for investments and for allowing our entrepreneurs to diversify their interests. it is in this spirit that i voted in favour of this resolution: i think it is important to concentrate on the work that needs to be done to make things better, rather than on the possible external agents.
in writing. referring to the motion for a resolution, the situation between russia and ukraine remains tense and unstable with repercussions both at european and italian level. the sanctions, designed to reduce the differences between russia and ukraine, have blocked the import of many agricultural and food products from italy, causing serious economic damage. these have not only created negative consequences for the member states and the european single market, but also for russia itself on the verge of economic default. in addition, the decision by the kiev government to suspend the payment of social benefits and pensions in those areas not controlled by the government is of grave concern. we need a joint solution between two democratic countries, russia and ukraine, with the mediation and commitment of europe to resolve a situation of such a complex nature.
in writing. on 26 october 2014, ukraine held political elections which were conducted in an efficient, orderly and peaceful manner and with general respect for fundamental freedoms, despite the ongoing conflict in the eastern regions and russia's illegal annexation of crimea. whereas the new government, formed by pro-european forces, has the constitutional majority necessary to pursue reforms and has already adopted a coalition agreement laying the foundations for a rigorous reform process aimed at promoting greater european integration, modernising and developing the country, establishing genuine democracy and the rule of law, and working out the constitutional changes proposed by the poroshenko peace plan; however, i cannot vote for the resolution because it calls for new sanctions against russia. i think that the best vote is abstention, because russia too is guilty of grave crimes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in ukraine. this proposal aims to support the sovereignty, territorial integrity, unity and independence of ukraine. i strongly hope that the new ukrainian government and parliament will swiftly implement the political and socioeconomic reforms necessary to build a prosperous democratic state based on the rule of law.
in writing. the interference in the ukrainian issue and the short-sighted policy towards russia is a symbol of the failure of european foreign policy.
in writing. i am signing the motion on the situation in ukraine because russia's aggressive and expansionist policy violates both the independence and territorial integrity of ukraine. similarly, russia's support for separatists in eastern ukraine, through the deployment of weapons, mercenaries and regular troops, violates international law and harms the rights of the local civilian population. i therefore believe that the sanctions adopted are necessary to make clear to russia the conditions on which the eu is not prepared to give in. this does not mean that we have to give up a diplomatic solution. channels of dialogue must remain open and available for comparison
in writing. i have decided to abstain from voting on this motion for a resolution because i believe it is still premature for the european parliament to express its definitive view on the situation in ukraine. however, i agree with the reference by the high representative to the need to strengthen diplomatic dialogue with russia.
in writing. i supported the european parliament's resolution on the situation in ukraine. the european union has a duty to continue to support all efforts by the ukrainian government to consolidate the process of achieving an effective peace. the immediate intervention of international institutions and all parties to the conflict is a priority to support a rapid process of resolving its internal conflict.
in writing. the european union has a duty to continue to support all efforts by the ukrainian government to reassert its sovereignty and independence, through deep reforms of its judicial system and through the adoption of new measures aimed at guaranteeing the rule of law, combating corruption, protecting press freedom and the rights of its minorities. the resolution also stresses the serious humanitarian situation which has developed in the eastern part of the country in recent months and which requires immediate action by the international institutions (united nations, red cross). we call on all parties to the conflict to promote the full implementation of the provisions of the minsk protocol and on the member states to proceed as quickly as possible with the ratification of the eu-ukraine association agreement, as a first step towards a rapid process of ukraine's convergence towards democratic values and principles and in support of a rapid process of resolving its internal conflict.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the situation in ukraine because i believe that russia's illegal annexation of crimea represents the most serious violation of the principle of territorial sovereignty in europe since the second world war. russia has repeatedly used its policy to put pressure on former satellites to regain lost influence. the eu must adopt a firm, coherent and comprehensive response in favour of independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity and the inviolability of borders, which should therefore be translated into a new strategy towards russia. the difficult humanitarian situation in ukraine and crimea, which is linked to the plight of the internally displaced, requires a concrete commitment from the commission and the commissioner for humanitarian aid. i therefore consider it essential to insist on the political line of non-recognition of the annexation of crimea and the elections held in donetsk and luhansk on 2 november 2014. only through a strong and united voice of the 28 member states of the european union can the efforts undertaken so far be brought to fruition.
in writing. in view of the previous european council conclusions and european parliament resolutions on ukraine, in view of the socio-political problems that ukraine continues to face and which undermine its stability and prosperity, in view of the need for greater control of borders and arms trafficking by moscow in order to consolidate the process of achieving an effective peace, in view of the need for effective assistance to the local population, especially for displaced persons and refugees, in view of the need for increased financial assistance to ukraine to promote its accession to the union, i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. i voted for this resolution because the serious situation which has developed in ukraine over the past year is a threat not only to those territories but to europe as a whole. the undeclared hybrid war that russia is waging with the complicity of ukrainian separatists is no longer tolerable. the acts of terrorism, the intimidation, the flow of arms, the blackmailing of energy must stop. the european union must therefore act on two fronts: on the one hand, to continue the sanctions regime established for russia until moscow complies with the minsk protocol; on the other hand, support the pro-european government of president poroshenko, which emerged from regular elections in october 2014, in completing the reform process for the construction of a democratic state, in protecting the rights and needs of citizens.
in writing. while i believe it is of the utmost importance that the eu, together with the ukrainian authorities, act decisively, but in full respect of international law and the principles of neutrality, impartiality and independence, to alleviate the suffering of the people of ukraine, who are paying a heavy price in terms of humanitarian and health emergency as a result of the conflict, i have decided to abstain on the resolution pending the resumption of dialogue between the parties involved. this is in order to understand more deeply what is really needed to bring about a genuinely shared and stable political solution through the resumption of negotiations, in order to avoid the balkanisation of the conflict in eastern ukraine and crimea.
in writing. i believe that democracy and the reconciliation of peoples who have been at war for centuries must be the founding values of the eu, which does not need a pro-russian or anti-russian policy, but a peace policy to thwart the threat of the outbreak of world war iii on its borders. the text of this resolution condemns exclusively the pro-russian separatists and russia and forgets the massacres and the displacement of russian-speaking civilians in ukraine today. he also forgets that the ukrainian government: • has armed units such as the neo-nazi azov battalion, whose emblem was already in use by ss units; • includes three foreign ministers, including a former us state department employee, selected by an international recruiting agency sponsored by financier soros, who has admittedly played a role in the events in ukraine over the past year. i therefore voted against this resolution because: • it is in fact a repudiation of the blood with which europe freed itself in the past from nazism and ethnic cleansing;• it does not coincide in my view with the interests, values and will of the majority of european citizens.
in writing. i did not support the resolution analysing the situation in egypt with my flight because i do not share the positions it advocates.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the motion because i consider egypt a strategic partner of the eu. also, i consider a priority the establishment of democracy and ending the violation of human rights in that country.
in writing. voted against: insists that the future of egypt should remain firmly in the hands of the egyptian people, free from any outside interference; reiterates that economic, political, social, cultural or any other relations between the eu and the countries of the european neighbourhood policy must be based on equal treatment, non-interference, solidarity, dialogue and respect for the asymmetries and specific characteristics of each country.
in writing. today i voted in favour of the resolution on the events in egypt, expressing my closeness to the aspirations of the egyptian people. these aspirations, which are embedded in the deepest essence of every people, namely the free expression and protection of human rights, freedom of expression, association and assembly, political pluralism and the rule of law, which were pursued after the removal of president hosni mubarak in february 2011, were unfortunately relentlessly stifled by the egyptian authorities in the period following the military coup of 2013. the progressive loss of independence and impartiality of the criminal justice system in egypt, an instrument of repression in the hands of the local government, requires a revision of the law on the judiciary, in order to ensure an effective separation of powers that determines, in a stable and definitive way, the independence of the administration and the impartiality of justice. i can only condemn the acts of violence, harassment, intimidation or censorship perpetrated against any political opponent, protester, journalist, blogger or civil society actor by the state authorities, forces and security services in egypt. it is essential that impartial and independent investigations into human rights abuses be initiated.
in writing. while acknowledging egypt's key role in the conclusion of the truce between israel and palestine and in the fight against terrorism, we cannot fail to highlight the human rights violations against journalists and bloggers detained in the country.
in writing. i find that, in the current bad situation on the southern shore of the mediterranean, egypt is a reason for optimism. of course you are . the european union is not only a political and economic power, but also a political and economic power, and it is a political power, and it is a political power. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution and i hope that the next european parliament document on this subject will say 'welcome the results achieved'.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution 2014/3017 because, in the last year, several cases of violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms have emerged in egypt, such as, for example, the violation of freedom of expression, freedom of religion and the right to a fair trial. i support the european union's recommendations to the egyptian government to adopt a concrete security policy to ensure and promote national and international arrangements aimed at strengthening and defending human rights and promoting security and social justice. the egyptian authorities are called upon to ensure the protection and promotion of the fundamental rights set out in the international covenant on civil and political rights, which egypt ratified in 1982.
in writing. the new egyptian constitution states that "freedom, human dignity and social justice are rights recognized to every citizen" and that "dignity is a right recognized to every human being and cannot be violated". since its entry into force, however, very serious events have occurred which are contrary to these principles. the issuance of mass death sentences comes to mind, first in march 2014 of 1 212 people and then in december 2014 of 188 people. we are also alarmed by the fact that three months ago, in october 2014, president al-isi ordered that all "necessary and public services" be placed under military jurisdiction. this means that minors can also be tried by military courts. these judges are answerable to the ministry of defence and not to the ministry of justice. this can only raise concern about the large number of protesters, journalists, activists, trade unionists who are currently being detained without due process. furthermore, a clear separation of powers is desirable in order to ensure a peaceful conduct of the march 2015 elections. for all these reasons i am voting in favour of this resolution.
in writing. egypt is a key country for the european union because of its important regional role. however, it is extremely important that the country respects human rights and fundamental freedoms because protests cannot be crushed by violence and military courts cannot replace an independent judicial system. i supported this motion for a resolution calling on the egyptian authorities to release immediately and unconditionally all those detained solely for exercising their right to freedom of expression and peaceful assembly.
in writing. europe and this parliament - not all of them but a large majority - cheered the much-vaunted arab spring. the facts are sadly in our favour here too, and this resolution reminds me of the shallowness of which europe is guilty.
in writing. i have supported the motion on the situation in egypt because the violations of democratic principles and the rule of law in that country are becoming more worrying day by day. the neighbourhood policy should provide eu technical and financial assistance to egypt on the basis of conditions related to respect for human rights, minorities and democratic pluralism. it is discouraging that this policy is not producing the results hoped for. it is therefore essential to make the level of assistance conditional on the achievement of specific objectives, concerning respect for civil and political freedoms, reform of the judiciary, repeal of unconstitutional laws, release of arbitrarily detained political opponents, journalists and peaceful protesters.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution by mr preda, because i believe that the european union must mobilize to create the conditions for the final establishment of a pluralistic and fully democratic society in egypt. i believe that all the freedoms that are expressed through freedom of expression, freedom of association, as well as freedom of the press, represent the basis of any democratic society. the european union should therefore support concrete actions to promote the adequate protection of these rights within egyptian territory, also in the light of the strategic role that egypt could play in the conflict resolution process in the strategic mediterranean region.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the situation in egypt. i express my full solidarity with the egyptian people in their fight against terrorism and my deep concern for the 32 journalists recently imprisoned in turkey. freedom of expression and freedom of peaceful assembly, which are essential elements for a healthy democracy, must be considered a priority for the turkish government, because they are an essential component for any democratic country.
in writing. freedom of expression, freedom of association and freedom of the press are the foundations of any democratic and civil society. on the basis of this assumption, i believe that the european union should support concrete actions to promote the adequate protection of these inalienable rights within egyptian territory. we must not lose sight of the fact that egypt could play a key role in the process of resolving the conflicts in the mediterranean region. it is therefore more necessary than ever that the absolute principles laid down in the constitution apply within the country. i have given my consent to the resolution because i believe that it effectively conveys the message that the european union must act quickly to create the conditions for the final establishment of a pluralistic and fully democratic society in egypt.
in writing. egypt continues to play a key role in the regional context, with its mediation role in the israeli-palestinian conflict following the clashes this summer. unfortunately, the internal situation continues to be characterized by abuses against political opponents, by protests and demonstrations suppressed in bloodshed, by the use of military courts against civilians. we therefore call on the egyptian authorities to release all those who have been imprisoned solely for exercising their right to freedom of expression and demonstration: political opponents, bloggers, journalists, human rights activists, trade unionists, members of civil society and minorities. we demand that the security of all citizens be guaranteed, regardless of their political affiliation or religious beliefs. we also call for further action to promote political pluralism, the impartiality of the judiciary and the cessation of all violations of human rights.
in writing. dear colleagues, in view of the previous european parliament decisions on the situation in egypt, the resolutions of the foreign affairs council (august 2013, february 2014) and the universal declaration of human rights, in view of the freedoms of expression and association as two indispensable pillars of a pluralistic and democratic society, in view of the 41 000 arrests since july 2013 in connection with peaceful demonstrations, the increasing violence against women, the suppression of human rights and freedom of opinion and expression, in view of the call on the egyptian government to protect ethnic and religious minorities and to condemn all attacks on freedom, i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. egypt is a strategically important partner country for cooperation with the eu in the southern mediterranean region. it is of paramount importance that the eu supports him in building his democratic institutions and that the egyptian government commits itself to respecting the international agreements it has made with the eu. i am in favour of the resolution and the financial support that the eu will give to egypt, provided that the political and democratic conditions set out in the text are met. the country needs, in order for its economy to develop and the conditions of the people to improve, that the democratic transition leads to a stable government based on the foundations of democracy and that it is the guarantor of all citizens. only the creation of a pluralistic society, which is respectful of minorities and diversity of opinions and lifestyles, can guarantee the stability of the country in the long term.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution analysing the case of the two italian moro detainees held in india since 2012. it is necessary and proper for the european parliament to express itself on this matter, asking india to leave the case to the italian authorities. as long as european citizens continue to pay dearly for the maintenance of the union's diplomatic representation in third countries, their security will also have to be guaranteed by these structures, which should take concrete action to defend the human rights of community prisoners around the world.
in writing. i voted with conviction for the european parliament's resolution on the case of the two italian sailors massimiliano latorre and salvatore girone, who, while carrying out anti-piracy activities off the coast of kerala, are accused of killing two indian fishermen. i share the concern expressed in the resolution about the restriction of the freedom of movement of the two gunmen and their detention without charge, both of which are signs of a serious violation of human rights by the indian authorities. i therefore consider it essential to make every effort to ensure that the two men are given a fair trial, while fully respecting the fundamental rights of citizens of the european union detained in a third country. in the light of the facts of the incident, which took place in international waters, i hope that jurisdiction will be given to the italian authorities and/or to an international arbitration. parliament also called on the commission to take all possible steps to ensure that the case was resolved peacefully and quickly, in the interests of the italian and indian families concerned.
in writing. — i voted ‘yes’ because i consider it fundamental for the principle of italian sovereignty to bring back the two ‘marò’ to italy.
in writing. voted in favour: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further complicated by the fact that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not yet as bad as it was in the former yugoslavia.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the moro to express my deep concern at their current conditions of detention, which are being implemented in ways and for reasons that raise many questions about the protection of their rights, which are certainly being weakened by delays and restrictions on the fundamental freedoms of due process and defence. the court of justice has consistently held that the principle of the protection of the interests of the community is not a fundamental principle of the common fisheries policy. in addition, there are clear limits to the exercise of a competence, other than that of flag, to exercise judicial or investigative powers which come from another national authority. i therefore ask the indian authorities to release the maros in accordance with the above principles of national jurisdiction and international law.
in writing. the adoption of a resolution on the case of italian sailors massimiliano latorre and salvatore girone was a necessary act for the european parliament, since the two marines are not only italian soldiers but also european citizens, whose freedom of movement has been restricted for more than three years, although no charges have been brought against them. we therefore urge the high representative to do everything possible to resolve the diplomatic crisis in a positive manner as soon as possible, including the economic and trade relations between india and the eu in the event of further unfounded referrals by the indian authorities.
in writing. almost three years after their arrest, the two italian naval officers are still in custody in india without knowing what the charges against them are. this delay, which is a clear violation of their fundamental rights, is no longer acceptable. under the international principle of functional immunity, military personnel of a state serving abroad under a provision of national law are subject, for acts committed in the exercise of their functions, exclusively to the jurisdiction of the country of deployment. for this legal reason too, i am convinced that the solution to the matter must necessarily be through a trial before the italian courts or, at the very least, through international arbitration under protocol vii to the montego bay convention. the resolution is a step in this direction, offering new ideas for continuing the difficult negotiations. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. this resolution represents an important piece in the mosaic of initiatives that are being carried out to bring these two men home. that is why i voted in favour: i'd really like to see latorre and girona, the pride of the nation, in italy! i do have a problem though. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. it is the italian government, in whose name and on whose behalf the two sailors were on that ship, that must bring them home safe and sound, at all costs. they've waited too long, and we've wasted too much time.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion concerning the case of the two italian navy gunners massimilano latorre and salvatore girone. this motion, which i was the initiator of, was voted for by a plurality of members from different member states and of different political persuasions. the broad consensus is that the indian authorities are perpetrating a clear and continuous violation of human rights, both because after 3 years the italian moro are still awaiting a charge, and because they are subject to a regime restricting personal freedom without any valid reason. furthermore, the inertia shown by the new delhi judicial authority violates the principle of legal certainty which is compatible with the existence of discretionary judicial powers provided that the exercise of these is based on elements that are at least partly cognitive and therefore objectively verifiable.
in writing. the moro case must be dealt with at european level, because europeans are the two citizens at the centre of the story. the case must therefore involve the whole of diplomacy in the old continent and not just italian diplomacy, since italian diplomacy has proved to be a complete failure. it is not for politics to judge whether the moro are guilty or not, since it is a question of applying basic international conventions such as the one on civil and political rights. i am sure that if these two citizens had been british, french or german they would not have been left to their fate in india for three years. italy needs to feel europe is close and united on this case. i therefore have no choice but to vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i strongly supported the adoption of the joint resolution on the case of the two italian mares, a text which i am also a co-signer of. i find it very significant that, with the debate in the chamber last night and the overwhelming approval of the resolution in plenary today, the sad tale of the two mares has finally taken on a truly european dimension. the european union, including through the contribution that the high representative federica mogherini will certainly be able to make to the case, must and can help italy to reach a final, fair and mutually acceptable solution to an international dispute that has been going on for too long. this solution will not be possible without the liberation of the two seas and the identification of a suitable legal framework. the unlawful detention of two european citizens for three years without any clearly formulated charge does not do india any honour: the european union must once again demonstrate that it is at the forefront of the fight for human rights in the world.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the case of the two italian seamen, which seeks to take all necessary action to protect the two gunmen in order to achieve a speedy and satisfactory solution to the matter. i express my deepest condolences to the families for the tragic end of the two indian fishermen, but i believe that the dispute should be handled in strict compliance with the principles of the rule of law, fully respecting the human and legal rights of the persons allegedly involved. i therefore hope that jurisdiction over the whole matter will be given to italy or at least to an international arbitration.
in writing. i am voting in favour of this resolution because, while it is true that politics is not the judge, it is certainly true that the task of politics and above all of the european parliament is to defend the right of these two european citizens to a fair trial within a reasonable time as enshrined in article 9 of the international covenant on civil and political rights, to which india itself is a signatory. i also think it is necessary to guarantee the two italians that a third court will decide on the determination of jurisdiction in order to guarantee the greatest possible impartiality. i also support the motion because i want human rights to always prevail over any economic interest.
in writing. the case of the two italian mares is a subject on which careful thought should be given. this resolution is a step in the right direction and commits the european parliament to supporting the efforts, so far futile, of the last italian governments.
in writing. i am sorry to note the deafening silence of the whole government on this issue during the italian presidency. the adoption of today's resolution is a turning point in the history of the moro people and a great success for the forza italia delegation. for the first time, on a proposal from our delegation, which was supported by all the political groups, the european parliament has taken a clear and unambiguous position on the matter, firmly affirming the violation of the human rights of the two marrons and giving a strong mandate to the high representative mogherini and to all the other european bodies to ensure that latorre and girona can finally and definitively return home.
in writing. - i declare my vote in favour of the resolution on the case of the two italian mares: the european union must be resolute in its negotiations with india. our fellow citizens, latorre and girone, who were found guilty of the deaths of two fishermen in the indian seas, should be released as soon as possible from the detention regime they have been forced to live under since 15 february 2012, to be tried by international courts or by the italian authorities, safeguarding justice in the interest and respect for the good of both countries and the common pain that this incident has caused. europe reaffirms its role as guarantor of respect for peoples and for one another, with a view to a policy of defence and protection of the rights of its citizens. we have received news that the supreme court has granted latorre a three-month extension of his leave in italy to undergo the medical treatment he needs. we hope, as italian foreign minister gentiloni has said, that this is the first sign of a dialogue that will finally lead to a real resolution of the negotiations with india, which, as high representative for foreign and security policy federica mogherini has said, would otherwise risk affecting eu-india relations and the global fight against piracy, in which the eu is strongly engaged.
in writing. i have given my full support to the motion for a resolution on the case of the two martyrs, latorre and girone, because the right to a fair trial is the foundation of any democratic system. i reiterate my regret at the death of the indian fishermen, but i would like to stress that the jurisdiction to prosecute the two gunmen is that of the flag state of the enrica lexie, italy. the confusion over the affair has only led to unjustified delays in the initiation of legal proceedings and the repatriation of the two defendants. i would like to stress here that this is a matter of concern to the whole eu, as it is the responsibility of eu diplomatic representations to ensure that the rights and safety of european citizens detained in third countries are safeguarded.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution with conviction, convinced of the gravity of the situation involving two italian riflemen who have been detained in india since february 2012 without any charges having been laid. the fact that there has been no significant progress so far is frustrating and is shaking italian public opinion. the resolution is going in the right direction: the continuation of this situation is unacceptable, fundamental human rights are being called into question and violated. the gunmen, who are european citizens, must be repatriated, and jurisdiction over the events in which they were involved must be given to the italian authorities or to an international arbitration. i am confident, in the spirit of the resolution, that the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy will step up diplomatic action to achieve the objectives of the resolution, that is to say, taking all necessary action and leaving nothing to chance in order to achieve a speedy and satisfactory solution to the case. i 'm sure it 'll be like this: the renewed commitment of the new high representative of the union is a reassuring premise, as are the words of the spokesman for the un secretary-general, ban ki-moon. bringing the maroons home
in writing. - today, thanks to an initiative by the italian delegation of the epp, supported by a very large majority of our colleagues, the moro phenomenon has become a european issue and no longer just a national one. unfortunately, after three years, no diplomatic or political solution has yet been found to bring about a positive outcome to this matter, which i believe must now be resolved by a common european solution. i therefore strongly support the call to the european commission and the council to take this matter into account when negotiating new agreements with india.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the case of the marines, the two marines, massimiliano latorre and salvatore girone, who have been held in india for three years awaiting trial on charges of killing two fishermen during an anti-piracy operation off the coast of somalia in the indian ocean. it is vital that we take whatever action is necessary to protect the two italian riflemen. we call for the return of the two moro, because their detention without charge is a serious violation of human rights. the eu must proceed with determination in its negotiations with india and honour its commitment to the full and effective protection of the fundamental rights of its citizens, of every european citizen in detention anywhere in the world.
in writing. for three years now, we in italy have been living with anguish the story of the two riflemen latorre and girone. no diplomatic or political solution has been able to guarantee a positive outcome to this matter. i believe that the ineptitude of the indian judiciary has resulted in a serious and perpetrated violation of human rights. on the basis of the foregoing considerations, i have decided to support this motion for a resolution by voting in favour. it effectively conveys the idea that the case of italian seamen should acquire a european dimension. i strongly support the call to the european commission and the council to take this matter into account when negotiating new agreements with india.
in writing. it is almost three years since massimiliano latorre and salvatore girone, two italian navy gunners, were detained in india without being brought to trial after the enrica lexie incident, in which two indian fishermen were mistaken for pirates in order to protect the ship from potential attacks and were tragically killed in the encounter. despite numerous diplomatic efforts, the legal uncertainty of this matter has not made it possible to clarify in which waters these tragic events occurred and, consequently, no agreement for a consensual and final solution, in accordance with international law, has yet been reached. i only remember that on 15 february 2012, the two italian sailors, european citizens, were carrying out their task in the framework of the activities to combat international piracy, against which the european union is strongly committed. massimiliano latorre and salvatore girone must be returned to their countries of origin as a matter of urgency and must be subjected to a fair and speedy trial in italy or, at the very least, to international arbitration, which will definitively determine the circumstances of the incident and any responsibility. we can 't put it off any longer . it is an ethical rather than a legal request, which the european parliament is now finally joining in.
in writing. with this resolution we wish to draw attention to the serious situation of legal uncertainty, the slow pace of the process and the resulting bureaucratic delays which have led to the long and unjustified detention of our two officers in recent years, with the consequent restriction of their freedom of movement. this is a serious violation of their human rights and of the major international conventions on the subject. we deplore the way in which the investigations have been conducted so far and intend to support all possible efforts to reach a solution acceptable to both countries. we call for europe, and specifically the eu high representative for foreign affairs, to intervene, in order to resolve the question of the applicable jurisdiction and the possible use of the international arbitration instrument. we must remember that these are two european citizens who are therefore entitled to eu diplomatic protection. the continuing delay by india is likely to have a serious impact not only on relations between the european union and india but also on the overall fight against piracy, in which the european union is strongly engaged.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, in view of the universal declaration of human rights and the un convention on the law of the sea, in view of the european parliament's resolution of 10 may 2012 on maritime piracy, in view of the length of the trial and the complete absence of any charges against the two soldiers, in view of the fact that the two naval gunners are citizens of the european union and that on 15 february 2012 they were carrying out their anti-piracy duties, i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution calling for the return of the two italian seamen and for the case to be dealt with by the italian authorities or by international arbitration. the resolution is moving in the right direction, but we italian delegates are nevertheless astonished at the excessive caution, bordering on suspicion, which parliament has shown. the proof is that in a game of this calibre, faced with such blatant human rights violations, italian diplomacy has been left alone. i hope that the many dark and negative aspects of this affair will at least give the european parliament the opportunity to make a serious reflection in order to guide our actions towards the achievement of a real unity, which is not only economic but also cultural, social and political.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of this resolution as it calls for jurisdiction to be attributed to the italian authorities and/or to an international arbitration and further encourages the eu's high representative for foreign affairs federica mogherini to take all necessary action to protect the two italian gunmen in order to reach a speedy and satisfactory solution to the case.
in writing. let's bring our mares home! that is our strong appeal in the resolution adopted today by an overwhelming majority. i hope that europe will work to find a fair and speedy solution to the case of massimiliano latorre and salvatore girone. since 2012, italian riflemen have been detained in india without any specific charges. this serious situation of legal uncertainty is a clear violation of human rights, and that is why we are calling for the case to be referred to the italian authorities or to an international arbitration. we therefore call on the high representative federica mogherini to take all necessary measures to repatriate our boys as soon as possible.
in writing. - the adoption of the resolution on the two italian mares is a gesture towards two european citizens, massimiliano latorre and salvatore girone, whose situation has been awaiting a response for more than three years. in this resolution, parliament considered the restriction of their freedom and the long delays in the investigation by the indian authorities to be a serious violation of human rights. these rights are enshrined in international treaties such as the international covenant on civil and political rights, which has also been ratified by the indian authorities. the european parliament resolution called for jurisdiction to be given to the italian authorities and/or to an international arbitration as soon as possible and called on the commission and its high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini, to take concrete political initiatives for a speedy and satisfactory solution to the case, including by sacrificing current and/or future trade agreements if necessary.
in writing. finally, the diplomatic dispute between italy and india over the two italian sailors accused of killing two indian fishermen has been brought to the plenary. the two italian gunmen, who are also european citizens, were on board an italian merchant ship on 15 february 2012 and were carrying out their duties as part of international anti-piracy activities, which also involve the european union itself. i hope that jurisdiction over the events connected with the incident will be given to the italian authorities or to an international arbitration and that the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy will do everything possible to take all necessary action to protect the two italian gunmen in order to reach a speedy and satisfactory solution to the case. unfortunately, italian diplomacy has been totally absent in this matter and the italian government has been unable to work towards a final solution.
in writing. - i wholeheartedly support the resolution which parliament has adopted calling for a solution to be found as soon as possible to the situation of the two italian seamen, girone and latorre, who have been unjustly detained in india for many months, in open violation of their internationally recognized rights. for too long they have been the object and victim of a diplomatic iron fist that seems to have little interest in a true investigation. i fully share parliament's call for the rule of law to be respected by giving jurisdiction to the italian authorities or, alternatively, to an international arbitration. the detention of the gunmen without clear charges is a serious and alarming fact. the arbitrary restriction of their freedom must be ended and they must be allowed to return to face trial in accordance with internationally recognized standards. i particularly join in urging the high representative of the union for foreign affairs, mrs mogherini, to take all necessary action to protect the two gunmen, in the light of the view that the rights and security of citizens should be safeguarded by the union's diplomatic representation.
in writing. the resolution is balanced and well thought out, it shares my critical views on austerity and the way ttip has been managed so far, and for these reasons i voted in favour of it.
in writing. — i voted ‘no’ because i believe this motion does not help the implementation and execution of the work programme.
in writing. today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the commission's work programme for 2015 tabled by the socialists and democrats, my group. it has had the merit of highlighting a number of points which i consider particularly important. he first drew attention to the social dimension of the european union, pointing out that 25 million europeans, including 5 million young people, were unemployed and that poverty and social exclusion had increased sharply in recent years. on the environment, the resolution underlined the need to develop major legislative proposals for the implementation of the 2030 climate and energy package and also stressed that proposals on the circular economy must continue to be a priority on the commission's agenda. finally, the call for the fight against tax havens and the need for fair taxation that encourages the real economy helped to define a resolution outlining a commission action programme particularly suited to the needs of the european union.
in writing. europe is going through a very difficult period in which member states are struggling to adapt to the rigid budgetary rules of the institutions, we hope that the commission is aware of the urgent need for more flexible rules for public accounts.
in writing. the epp resolution, for which i voted in favour, confirms the confidence that was already placed in president juncker in october. this work programme shows great differences from barroso's and i would like to stress once again that i prefer to judge by facts rather than by statements. if juncker has decided to reduce activities to concentrate on a few acts to do them well, i will judge this by the quality of the legislative proposals he will present, and this is a positive fact for me: it gives parliament more room to manoeuvre in areas it does not deal with in 2015. we'll talk about it in a year.
in writing. the new european commission work programme also shows promise, as president juncker has said, pledging to 'lead an eu that is bigger and more ambitious on big things and smaller and more modest on small things', but i personally still have strong doubts about it. unfortunately, too much bureaucracy still exists at all levels (regional, national and european), and taxpayers' money is sometimes wasted on obsolete and inadequate legislative measures and proposals that do not meet the needs of citizens and that fail to address the major socioeconomic challenges such as the fight against unemployment, especially among young people, and the improvement of the competitiveness of our enterprises. we must aim at a substantial reduction in bureaucratic burdens, an assessment of the impact of the new proposals on smes, but above all an investment plan capable of boosting the economy and greater social equity with measures to combat tax evasion and fraud.
in writing. i find it very serious that parliament has not been able to give a strong, united response to the work programme presented by the new juncker commission for 2015. the absence of a joint motion for a resolution is all the more serious in view of the commission's inexplicable decision to withdraw a number of legislative dossiers which have recently been tabled or on which a compromise between parliament and the council has not yet been reached. i believe that where there has already been a legislative pronouncement, the commission should feel politically bound to carry out an interinstitutional consultation before withdrawing the legislative proposal in the exercise of its exclusive rights. despite the shortcomings related to the lack of an adequate social dimension, the 2015 programme includes strategically important initiatives to strengthen the cohesion of the european single market such as the digital single market package and the internal market strategy for goods and services which focuses particularly on the needs of smes. finally, i hope that the commission will give concrete follow-up in its various legislative initiatives to the political change under the italian presidency, in the sense of greater attention to flexibility in economic policy and to the needs of growth and the recovery of the real economy.
in writing. as i have said many times, this commission has already started on the wrong foot. juncker and his commissioners are not giving the positive impulse that europe in crisis needs, and the much-vaunted juncker plan will be proof of this failure.
in writing. i voted in favour of the commission's work programme for 2015. the eu is expected to take decisive action to tackle major socioeconomic challenges such as fighting unemployment and improving competitiveness. citizens also want the union to be more transparent about its initiatives and how it implements them. the work programme adopted for 2015, which comprises 23 initiatives, is a good starting point in this direction because it sets out the actions that the european commission intends to implement in the next 12 months, in full transparency, to really change things in terms of jobs, growth and investment and bring tangible benefits to citizens.
in writing. i think that this motion for a resolution, the text of which is deliberately essential, contains references which are entirely acceptable. i particularly appreciated the reference in the document to the need for the european commission to reduce the number of proposals submitted, with the aim of making the legislative work as rational as possible, as well as the reference to the need to promote the rapid and full implementation of existing legislation in key areas such as the single market, environmental law, the financial and banking sectors, the common agricultural policy, the common fisheries policy and cohesion policy. the commission's priorities for 2015 - jobs, growth and investment - were also welcomed. in the light of what has been said, i have decided to give my consent to this document.
in writing. we note the ambitious work programme focusing on growth and employment, but we call for a broader reflection on the future of europe, with a view to achieving a genuine political union capable of restoring the necessary democratic legitimacy. we naturally welcome the planned investment programme and hope that it will also be able to encourage new private investment in those european regions most severely affected by the economic crisis. we recall in this connection the importance of ensuring budgetary rules which are favourable to investment, so as to encourage the participation of the member states in the future european fund for strategic investments, for example by neutralizing, in the context of the stability and growth pact, the capital paid in and public co-financing of investment projects. we note the lack of an adequate and appropriate educational and cultural dimension: in this case, we ask the commission to adopt new measures that take account of the growing interrelationship between the development of the digital market, investment in vocational and cultural training and the education of eu citizens. we also call on the commission to work towards a balanced trade agreement with the usa, capable of promoting growth and employment, while safeguarding eu standards in the health, social and environmental fields.
in writing. whereas the commission's proposal entitled 'commission work programme 2015 a new start' also draws on the conclusions of the european council of 26-27 june 2014 and 18 december 2014, whereas eu policy and action, conducted in concert with member states in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, can and must have an effective impact in helping citizens anticipate and respond to rapid changes in society, whereas europe must commit itself to a model of social market economy that ensures sustainable growth in order to secure future generations of jobs instead of debt, for these reasons i vote in favour.
in writing. i support the commission's work programme and share its focus on jobs, growth and investment. it is important that we focus on a number of well-defined key priorities, and that we also set aside non-essential initiatives. in a time of scarce resources, it is right that they should not be wasted on actions that are not of primary importance to eu citizens, that bureaucratic burdens should be reduced and that tax fraud and evasion should be combated, and that taxpayers' money should be used more effectively. it is also essential that existing legislation is fully implemented in areas such as the single market, environmental law, the financial and banking sectors, as well as the common agricultural policy, the common fisheries policy and cohesion policy.
in writing. - i have decided to vote against the resolution b8-0007/2015 tabled by the green group on the commission's work programme for 2015 as it calls for greater legislative activity by europe on issues of fundamental importance by removing competence from the member states. i have decided to vote against the s&d group resolution b8-0035/2015 on the commission work programme for 2015 as it tends to increasingly take away the competence of the member states on key issues such as taxation. i have decided to vote in favour of resolution b8-0038/2015 tabled by the efdd group on the commission's work programme for 2015 as it is close to my party's positions on many issues, such as criticism of austerity, the euro and ttip.
in writing. i voted in favour of the efdd and greens-ale resolutions as they defend the legislative packages on the circular economy and air quality as strategic objectives of the european union. i believe that the circular economy must remain an integral part of european policies as the only viable way to make human development and prosperity coexist in the long term with a planet that presents: (a) non-renewable resources with physical limits (metals, minerals, rare earths, arable land); b) ecosystems whose equilibrium is threatened (biodiversity, climate); (c) renewable resources with very long cycles and regeneration times (water, forests, soil fertility, fish stocks) or entire geological ages (oil, gas). the withdrawal of the circular economy package and the questioning of the air quality package in the new commission's programme proposal are a bad sign of the reversal of european policies in the field of environmental and climate protection, human health and ecosystems. instead of pushing for social, technological and productive innovation for a responsible and scientific management of planetary resources, it wants to privilege a failed, anachronistic and irrecoverable economic model based on the priority of the market, profit and growth.
in writing. i do not believe that the european commission under juncker is capable of rescuing this europe which is in a state of decline. the commission's work programme will continue on the lines laid down by the previous two barroso-led commissions, and the changes that are so much touted are only on the surface. there is no greater flexibility in economic and fiscal rules, and this week's very flawed communication is proof of that: the european union is not prepared to accept that unless there is a radical change, the union itself is at risk. the juncker team is the result of an agreement between the major european parties, namely the people's party, the socialists and the liberals, whose support has been drastically reduced in the last european elections almost everywhere, to the detriment of forces which, in one way or another, want to change this europe. this commission, which is the voice of the governing parties in all the eu countries, cannot be a turning point, and this is clearly seen in its leadership, a politician who for over twenty years has participated in and shared all the choices that have brought us to the brink of the abyss we are now in.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is essential to continue the fight for a coherent european enlargement policy. i cannot accept that a country like turkey should join the eu, and we certainly cannot continue to fund countries that continue to violate human rights with open arms and impunity: the pre-accession countries must commit themselves to respecting our rules if they want our money.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this resolution tabled by mrs sommer because i think it is right that the european union should strongly condemn all actions which restrict the rights of citizens and the very idea of democracy. in turkey, many journalists are in prison, or awaiting trial, for expressing critical views of their country's government. this shows that turkey continues to crack down on those who, on the basis of the inalienable right to freedom of expression, express their dissent.
in writing. i supported the resolution on freedom of expression in turkey. i am deeply concerned about the 32 journalists recently imprisoned in turkey. freedom of expression, a longstanding problem in turkey, must be considered a priority for the turkish government because it is an essential component of any healthy democracy.
in writing. in turkey, a large number of journalists are in prison, or awaiting trial, simply for expressing critical views of the country's government. although turkey has formally declared its readiness to guarantee respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights, the government of the country continues to promote reactionary and repressive actions against those who, on the basis of the inalienable right to freedom of expression, disagree with its positions. i voted in favour of this resolution because i think it is right that the european union should strongly condemn all actions which undermine the rights of citizens and democracy.
in writing. we express our deep concern at the high number of journalists recently imprisoned in turkey and call on the turkish judicial authorities to review their detention measures as soon as possible. we believe that freedom of expression should be considered a priority for the turkish government, which should be able to provide a legal framework of guarantees for all media operators in line with international standards. freedom and pluralism of the press are an essential component of any democracy and are at the heart of our european values. we therefore consider these to be basic principles of any process of enlargement of the european union and to be fundamental to the successful continuation of the negotiations for turkey's accession to the european union.
in writing. whereas 32 journalists have been arrested in raids across turkey, highlighting issues that are highlighted in the country such as the under-representation of minorities, the authoritarian nature of the government and the absence of a rule of law and good governance, as well as the absence of fair and equitable trials; whereas media freedom is a long-standing problem in turkey and this, together with due process and the independence of the judiciary, are key elements for any healthy democracy and are enshrined in the turkish constitution; whereas in 2013 turkey received a financial allocation of eur 902,9 million through the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) to support economic policies and reforms, paving the way for the rights and obligations associated with eu membership; for these reasons, i vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the worrying state of the media - national and international - in turkey. freedom of expression is a fundamental value of the european union and as such is not negotiable. a free and pluralistic information is a fundamental prerequisite for any democracy: turkey has a large number of journalists in prison or awaiting trial, and recent news events show how much pressure has been put on the media in recent years. these include actions against publishers, executives and restrictions on the web and social media. in the context of an enlargement process of the union, the negotiations of which are already difficult, freedom of the press and the right to oppose, protest and criticise are fundamental values to be respected: i strongly believe that the turkish government should address this issue and propose a regulatory framework that ensures media pluralism in line with european standards.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution because i consider it fundamental and an uncompromising principle that in every democratic state there should be a free and impartial press. i have the impression that there is a deadlock in democratic reforms in turkey right now and little tolerance from the government towards critical media and public protests. it is important that turkish citizens can express their consent or dissent in free and peaceful public demonstrations, and that the media are also free to express their views directly and exercise their right of criticism. i also find the measures restricting the use of online media, social media and online forums unjustified. i hope that the turkish government will take the necessary steps to ensure that we have a system which guarantees freedom of thought and expression, freedom of the media, the rule of law and respect for the human rights of all citizens.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of this resolution as it condemns the erdogan government after the arrest of several journalists. freedom of thought and speech is one of the fundamental pillars of any democracy.
in writing. voted in favour: we are absolutely against pre-accession funds, especially for turkey, but since they have already been allocated, we at least support the idea that the beneficiaries' human rights are respected.
in writing. i voted today in favour of the motion for a resolution on freedom of expression in turkey following the recent arrest of journalists and media executives. i believe that freedom of the press is a cornerstone of any democracy and i believe that the measures of preventive detention to which a large number of turkish journalists are subjected cannot but be a cause for concern. i am in favour of continuing the accession negotiations between the european union and turkey and i believe that freedom of the press has a fundamental role to play in the process of enlargement of the eu. i hope therefore that, following the resolution adopted by this parliament, the turkish authorities will reconsider their position towards the journalists and the media who have been subject to restrictive measures.
in writing. the high representative must take a firm and clear stance towards erdogan's turkey, where any whispered opposition to the government is brutally suppressed. we cannot continue to have a weak dialogue with a key strategic partner which also aspires to become a member of the union.
in writing. turkey has been lagging behind in the annual ranking of press and freedom of expression by reporters without borders for over a decade: the attacks on social media such as facebook and twitter, the lifeblood of movements that have for years opposed any tendency to restrict freedom of expression, are emblematic in this regard. the violence and subsequent arrests last december have again affected freedom of assembly, expression, the press and political and media pluralism, targeting journalists, media professionals and members of the opposition. these are unacceptable violations of the fundamental rights on which the european union is founded, as has often been said: the european union has a duty to protect and promote these rights. to do this, this parliament and the other european institutions must not only recognize the progress of a country which has long aspired to join the union, but above all highlight its critical points and most serious problems, and exert all their influence so that these problems are quickly and fully resolved. the resolution is moving in that direction and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. turkey is a country with which we have a relationship based on a very delicate balance: i do not agree with the latest moves on freedom of the press, especially in the light of what has happened in paris, and that is why i voted in favour of the resolution. however, i would like to stress that we have no authority to criticize the behaviour of other sovereign states, especially if we have not succeeded in transmitting our values in decades of diplomatic rapprochement. of course you are . the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on freedom of expression in turkey because of the recent raids by the turkish police and the detention of some journalists including ekrem dumanli and hidayet karaca. human rights defenders, journalists and media representatives who continue to be harassed and pressured by the turkish authorities and who are forced to serve long unjust sentences. since this is incompatible with freedom of the press and of expression, which are fundamental principles of democracy, i am deeply concerned about the lack of control and respect for the fundamental rights which the turkish judicial authorities should respect and protect in order to guarantee a state of democracy, equality and the rule of law.
in writing. in december 2014, 32 journalists were arrested in raids across turkey, including prominent journalists, media executives and screenwriters, accused of forming, leading, or belonging to an armed terrorist organization. media freedom is a long-standing issue in turkey, which has already led to waves of arrests of journalists in 2011, the banning of twitter and the arrest of social media users. freedom of the media, due process and the independence of the judiciary are key elements for any healthy democracy and are enshrined in the turkish constitution, in particular article 26 which guarantees freedom of expression and articles 27 and 28 which protect 'freedom of expression' and 'free dissemination of thought'. i am voting in favour of this resolution to call for the immediate release of all journalists, social media activists and media workers currently detained. i am in favour of the principle of the presumption of innocence. by voting in favour, i intend to contribute to the conduct of independent and transparent investigations and to insist that all prisoners should be able to have free recourse to the lawyers of their choice.
in writing. i have approved this motion for a resolution condemning the raids by the turkish police on the media and the arrests of journalists in turkey on 14 december. a free and pluralistic press is an essential component of any democracy and principle of any rule of law. we call on the turkish authorities to provide comprehensive and transparent information on the charges against the arrested defendants and to ensure that they have full access to the evidence against them and to the right of defence.
in writing. i wish to support this motion in order to state forcefully that the violation of the fundamental rights of freedom of expression is in clear contradiction with the very idea of a modern society, as well as with the founding principles of the european union. i would also like to point out that turkey has received more than eur 900 million from the instrument for pre-accession assistance to encourage the creation of reforms that will lead it to be a civilised country guaranteeing political pluralism, freedom of the press and respect for the separation of powers and it is therefore impossible not to note that acts such as those in question are very serious obstacles to the process of democratization.
in writing. i support the joint resolution condemning the erdogan government after the arrest of several journalists. we must remember, however, that the entry of this same turkey which arrests journalists is supported by a large number of members present here.
in writing. i signed the motion for a resolution on freedom of expression in turkey following the recent arrests of journalists and media executives on charges of terrorist activities. these arrests raise serious doubts about the independence and impartiality of the turkish judiciary and push media owners to self-censorship. a state party to the council of europe and in the process of negotiating accession to the eu, such as turkey, cannot make arrests that are incompatible with the values that are fundamental to any democracy: freedom of thought and expression
in writing. on 14 december, following police raids, several turkish journalists were arrested on charges of "trying to seize state power through pressure, intimidation and threats", but in reality this is targeting some opponents of president erdogan. it is not the first time that turkey has shown growing intolerance towards the political opposition, public protests and media expressing critical views, but actions such as those in december further call into question the respect for the rule of law and media freedom, which is a fundamental principle of democracy. at a time like this, i consider the issue of media freedom to be a priority and i hope that the turkish government will soon provide an appropriate legal framework to guarantee pluralism in line with international standards. the eu has strongly called for an end to pressure and intimidation against the media and journalists expressing critical views.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our thoughts today too must go to paris, to this city, to this people, who have been so deeply affected by that indelible crime. paris was also the great mass demonstration for us. the paris of the past reminds us of the murderous madness, but also of lassana bathily, the muslim boy of malian origin who protected the hostages in the store and who became a frenchman a week ago and therefore our european citizen. we do not want to forget that shriek of dignity and we believe that we must start from there, with a united spirit, mr hohlmeier. we will not fail to support concrete measures, but we will refuse to support measures which undermine freedom, which is an indispensable achievement of the european union. we call ourselves the european union because we are founded on freedom. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat terrorism. europe has already some instruments at its disposal: let's make it work! we need to strengthen schengen, in its components concerning the exchange of information and the strengthening of security and external borders, without touching the basic principle of mobility. we have no objection to the pnr provided that the conditions concerning the duration of data retention and other conditions are clarified. no prejudicial, but careful to mislead the public: the problem is not solved by the pnr alone. pnr can be one of the elements of a multi-factor strategy that we must put in place, starting with the strengthening of judicial cooperation. the joint action and work of the intelligence services, the strengthening of foreign policy, a common policy towards the countries of the southern shore of the mediterranean and, finally, a policy of inclusion and integration. many terrorists, especially young people, come from pockets of poverty, misery, neglect, marginalization and exclusion: these are the things we have to fight: more education, more education, more funding for schools, more dialogue to fight bigotry and terrorism, and no instrumentalisation. we must be serious, because we are talking about and facing a serious question: we cannot say, as we sometimes do, that immigration brings terrorism. in my country, not a single immigrant has been suspected or denounced as a terrorist. so, let's stand together: we are seriously going to form a united front to fight and defeat the evil plant of terrorism.
mr arnott, the president has the right to accept or not accept the 'blue cards' as provided for in the rules of procedure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my concern about the anti-terrorism measures which the commission and the council are discussing and about the risks of emergency legislation which, in the name of values, pits the rule of law against security. i am talking about risks, commissioner, about measures already announced by member states, about monitoring of internet sites, about obstacles to travel in the schengen area, about the disproportionately long collection of passenger name records (pnr) which this parliament and the european court of justice have already rejected. many of these measures existed before the terrible attacks in france. they didn't stop them. i'm talking about the link that's been established in so many schools, in so many public places between terrorists and muslim communities. i am talking about the general tendency, which was already seen in the attack on the twin towers, to talk about the "war on terror". this isn't a war.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the terrorist threat, which has been made more apparent with the events in paris, must not lead us to make the same mistakes as those which occurred in the aftermath of 11 september, when the patriot act was used to impose severe restrictions on freedom and fundamental rights. the protection of public security must not become the rationale for psychological terrorism campaigns, which can ensure ever more effective social control. we must build on our values, principles and rights, protect them and make them our strength. and that is why, in the long run, policies to prevent terrorism must be based on strengthening intercultural dialogue, education and social integration. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to take action against the terrorist networks, and that the european union is able to take action against the terrorist networks. police cooperation and the exchange of information between member states must be improved, and the fight against all forms of financing of terrorist networks must be continued, with a view to their final dismantling.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must tell you the truth: i have heard a little bit from our commissioner. i would also have liked to have heard some self-criticism, because i believe that if what is happening is happening, it is partly the fault of the european institutions. i would like to hear, for example, something about what europe has done in the past years with regard to libya, iraq, or even what it has done recently with regard to syria or what it has not done, for example, with regard to countries like saudi arabia, which is certainly not one of the most tolerant countries in the world. it is a failure of europe, a failure of integration policies: we cannot think that integration is about letting someone come here to europe and say or do whatever they want. when there are people in europe who say they want to apply sharia law, these people should simply be expelled. and it's also a failure of immigration policy: it was in the news yesterday that isis, from libya, says they want to infiltrate terrorists who will then arrive, perhaps by boats, through the illegal immigration, in europe. so we need tougher border controls and, above all, the return of those illegals who have been there.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that in the light of what the commissioner has also said, namely the risk that making so many statements which are not followed by facts will increase the mistrust of the citizens, it is almost difficult to speak on this subject. the eyes will be on the riga meeting, as well as the informal meeting of heads of state and government. i think we need something concrete. i do not want to repeat the measures to which my colleagues have already referred. i very much appreciated what mrs hohlmeier said. i think what we need, all of us here, is to leave our ideologies at home, to stop being either "good" or "bad". we must stand by our citizens, who are currently receiving a flood of information, including dissonant and contradictory information, which is raising alarm bells. because, for example, in my country, a foreign minister first says that there is a possibility of infiltration through immigration, then denies it; but then comes - as marine le pen has also mentioned - the alarm from libya. we know that libya, the territory from which this tide of desperate people leaves, is increasingly in the hands of isis and we cannot tolerate that our citizens - and i speak in particular on behalf of my fellow citizens who are italians - feel trapped, feel on the front line and see that we continue to lose ourselves in chatter, continue to filter reality through more or less ideological visions while they absolutely need us to accelerate the concrete measures that exist and above all that we overcome the lack of trust that exists between states and, sometimes, between different bodies of law enforcement, that we overcome also those jealousies and envy that are blocking a system that is already in place, we must give it breath and strength because i believe that security is one of the main rights of a citizen and certainly one of the main duties. i think that's the reason for the existence of a state, one of the main reasons why states exist. i therefore rely on you, commissioner, to put your words into practice.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i would ask you to state which rule of procedure you are referring to.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i refer to rule 186 of the rules of procedure: the motion for a resolution. in the absence of mrs mogherini, i would like to stress this very important point, because we are at war against islamic terrorism. i'm dressed as a soldier to remind you, because you sleep standing up. we must deal with this in strasbourg, by holding a special session for a whole day. so i ask for a motion of procedure with mrs mogherini present. i ask you this, mr president, because you have been here for days on much more stupid subjects and on such important subjects you do not let anyone speak. ...this is the europe of the "sleeping on our feet".
i understand perfectly well, mr president, the point of order: it is a subject which must be raised by the groups at the meetings of the presidency.
mr president, i'm sorry, you always talk about the air fryer, but that's the serious stuff. mr president, it is useless to be president and then be ... (the president withdraws the floor)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i hope the commissioner has a very clear idea. because at the beginning i was optimistic, when i felt the intention to find a union between us, between the political forces, a union of this europe, since terrorism draws its spark, draws its vital humus and nourishment, right through our divisions. on the one hand, we hear talk of the possibility of closing the borders, of abandoning schengen, and thus returning to a feudal state. on the other hand, there is talk of driving islamists out of europe: but i'm already in europe. it took three people. they're called "lone wolves", to create what happened: three people. let us agree, with the necessary differences, on the measures. again, the european pnr. but some want the pnr, some do not, and some say no to the pnr between european countries. but neither does the data protection commissioner. so it's important to have one voice, one voice to fight a tough battle. i've heard of tolerance - that's very good - but not of reciprocity. the islamists also want to build mosques but they destroy our churches. so, reciprocity and respect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner avramopoulos, on the one hand we have this security request; on the other hand we have the security request. on the other hand, we have civil rights and freedoms. when these two things are put on the scale, there is a risk that civil conquests, which have taken so many years to achieve, will be called into question in the name of the danger of terrorism. so let's try to analyze historically what happened every time a danger like this came along. we are careful not to question important civil liberties. mr albrecht is right when he says that the instruments already exist and should be used better. for example, there is little cooperation between the intelligence services of the individual member states on security issues. let's try to exchange information and act better from that perspective, instead of summoning a monster and risking backsliding. i cannot understand what mrs le pen is saying when she says that we must restore the frontiers and re-establish what i do not know, the colonial policy of a hundred years ago. let us try to understand that the world has changed and that certain achievements cannot be taken back, just as schengen cannot be called into question.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. we can 't hide it . the threat of terrorism in europe is serious and the community institutions must respond firmly. however, i believe that, after the events in paris, the term that must accompany eu action should be: "balance" is the word. balance between the need for immediate action and the obligation to think about long-term solutions; we need to balance data collection, the use of intelligence tools and the right to privacy, but above all, we need to balance security and freedom, the two pillars on which our democracy is built. the debate on the directive on the exchange of pnr data should therefore be speeded up, but the protection of personal data should also be guaranteed to european citizens. the control of the movements of foreign fighters should be stepped up, but without limiting european freedoms, starting with the closure of the schengen borders. we cannot accept that the threat of terrorism undermines the european model of society and the values associated with it. finally, it is crucial that the union should have a common security policy, which provides for the full sharing of information between the 28 member states, a key feature if we are to start talking about a true european intelligence.
in writing. the tragic events in paris have shown not only how fragile our democracies are, but also how europe and the member states must equip themselves with more effective intelligence tools in the face of the real threat of islamist terrorism. the solution to combating terrorism is not to close the borders, to suspend schengen, as some populist figures have been saying in recent weeks. on the contrary, the schengen information system, cooperation between police forces and the strengthening of europol and eurojust must be strengthened. it is necessary to establish measures under the control of the judicial authorities to monitor european 'combatants' returning from death training camps; we must be able to block the 'catchy' jihadist sites that are recruiting with alarming ease many, too many young people, not just those from pockets of social discomfort and marginalization. the cultural, educational and social aspects of the programme are therefore essential. the adoption of the passenger name record (pnr) directive for the registration of passengers on flights within the schengen area may also be a necessary measure, but it is imperative to strike the right balance between security and adequate respect for privacy. only a united eu response can be truly effective in fighting terrorism.
in writing. needless to say, our citizens expect their governments and the european union to guarantee their security. we expect concrete and effective responses to fundamentalist terrorism, which defeat imminent actions but at the same time go to the root of the problem. the murderers who terrorized paris, as well as the suspects arrested in belgium and germany, are all people born and raised in europe, who attended our schools. we cannot therefore ignore the need to take measures to deal with poverty, ghettoization, ignorance and lack of rights. on the other hand, the exchange of information between our intelligence services and our judiciaries is essential to prevent further attacks, as well as to a stronger common foreign policy. we can of course discuss the reform of the pnr, but we must certainly do so without calling into question fundamental principles such as personal freedom and privacy. it is also natural to strengthen controls at the external borders of the schengen area, which, contrary to what populists and xenophobes say, is not the problem but the solution, if used in a spirit of cooperation between the member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this investment plan is destined to be another failure of the european union, which continues to prove incapable of dealing with the economic crisis. i ask you how anyone can think of basing the plan almost exclusively on private investment when it is obvious that the lack of confidence and the further deterioration of the growth prospects will never convince them to put money in. the only way out of this crisis is through massive public intervention, which must create the basis for private investors to invest in a significant way. to think otherwise is pure utopia and mystification. the european countries must be allowed to invest freely without budgetary constraints. the united states emerged from recession with an expansionary fiscal policy, running a deficit of 3% of gdp for years. they are fortunate not to have maastricht or the fiscal compact, absurd rules that kill growth and development. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the matter. perhaps this is the right starting point for boosting european growth.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i share the concern expressed by mr gräßle, who has left the chamber, because the funds in question were taken from research funds and are then perhaps allocated to infrastructure projects, where perhaps organized crime is moving, where the interests of the large multinationals are moving, which the grand coalition of the european parliament has a great interest in protecting, also in view of the recent events in luxembourg. the juncker plan may also be about this: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this plan may give them an alibi, because during the election campaign many voters were deceived by the policies promised by certain socialist parties, precisely to fight against austerity. so i think this is a very risky plan and we risk going over the heads of what the european people really want.
in writing. the commission is working on the participation of the member states in the investment plan, as well as the national investment banks. we expect positive signs on both fronts. synergy of efforts at a time when public resources are scarce can be decisive. the sector which can certainly make a difference with the resources at its disposal is that of private funds. we must be able to correct the anomaly whereby today, with the increased availability of wealth, there is still no corresponding increase in investment in the so-called 'real economy'. in order to reverse this trend and to stimulate private participation in the plan that will determine its success, the issue of project selection is crucial. i would like to draw attention to two aspects which i consider to be central. there is a need to select projects on the basis of their strategic nature, which is the only way to reassure private investors and involve them in the effort. another essential point will be to consider the added value of the employment impact that the selected projects will be able to provide, given the current unemployment numbers in europe. we must do our utmost to ensure that the debate is prolific and rapid. i am sure that parliament will not fail to make its contribution.
in writing. the european investment fund proposed by the juncker commission risks being yet another failed, haphazard project that is totally inadequate to stimulate the growth and jobs that europe needs. the proposed mechanism is based on the multiplier effect that the initial financing of some eur 16 billion would produce through private investment, with a view to reaching eur 315 billion. i would point out two points which show the inconsistency of the efsi mechanism. the first concerns the great difficulty faced by private individuals who, in conditions of low confidence and difficult markets, will have little incentive to invest. the second concerns the type of projects to be carried out, which, if not carefully examined and selected on the basis of strategic objectives, positive employment and environmental effects and maximum transparency, will turn out to be the next major infrastructure projects that feed organized crime and the interests of large groups and multinationals. finally, it is with grave concern that part of the planned funding is being reallocated from existing resources to the horizon 2020 research programme.
in writing. in recent weeks, europe has shown its willingness to make a breakthrough from the rigid austerity policies that have characterised the last legislatures. we acknowledge, mr president juncker, that you have responded to the calls for fairness, development and greater flexibility made by the s&d group and some countries, most notably the government of matteo renzi in italy. we now have a concrete legislative proposal, the proposal for a new european investment fund, which, together with the announced programme of the ecb's purchase of government bonds, can provide the basis for a new growth season for the real economy. these new instruments will now require the european institutions and the member states to show extraordinary political commitment to stimulating growth and increasing employment. we need an ambitious agenda on many priorities that have been left behind for too long: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment. the debate on the new european investment fund regulation will demonstrate parliament's commitment to launching the new regulatory framework as soon as possible; we hope that the commission will also show some dynamism.
in writing. the new investment plan launched at the end of 2014 by the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, foresees the mobilisation of eur 315 billion in new investments between 2015 and 2017. we should welcome the commission's announced willingness to support above all strategic areas such as energy networks, broadband and climate policy. however, once again europe risks being left behind in the most immediate needs of the majority of its citizens. the juncker plan gives very little space to expansion and incentives for the labour market. little or nothing to do with social policies concerning welfare and immigration; the small and mediumsized enterprises sector is even less important. the attention of the european summits seems to be focused rather on future trade agreements with the united states and on investments whose only strategic objective is to strengthen already consolidated political agreements. the same ones that are starving europe. the same people who have sacrificed the interests of the citizens for the benefit of a few for too long.
in writing. the new european fund for strategic investments is certainly an important instrument both for giving new impetus to the construction of european infrastructure and for helping small and medium-sized enterprises in the union. however, it will be crucial that the governance structure of the eif ensures maximum transparency in the evaluation of projects, especially those requiring more substantial funding. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, it is disappointing that eight of the 16 billion will be from existing resources to be reallocated, and in particular almost three of them will be taken from the horizon 2020 research programme. it is regrettable that when decisions are taken on possible cuts, education and research are always the sectors which are sacrificed first, whereas they should be the first of our priorities.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the paris agreement could be the most comprehensive agreement ever reached in terms of the issues covered and the number of countries committing to reduce emissions. we really hope that this time there will be a decisive turning point for a global climate agreement. the text adopted in lima shows the willingness of the states to reach a final compromise, including through the proposal for a permanent mechanism to raise the emission reduction targets. but we cannot but be critical of the lack of binding terms which could limit its effectiveness. we must note that, despite the attempts at negotiation, the text is still weak in defining the legal nature of the next agreement and there remains a serious risk to its effectiveness. the european union must ensure and insist that the member states prepare their national contributions well in advance and that they are effective and consistent. we must get and demand a binding treaty that commits all countries to reduce emissions in line with the objective of keeping the global temperature rise to within 2 degrees.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the council, mr commissioner, we set ourselves important objectives in view of lima. we wanted to convince all the parties involved of the need to invest in an ambitious climate policy, in order to protect the environment and at the same time create jobs by encouraging the development of new technologies. the result achieved is a step forward but remains only a beginning. certainly more could have been done. and paris can be the right opportunity if everyone shows the same commitment and tenacity. the general objective we are setting ourselves today is to strengthen and engage the entire international community in sustainable development, because i strongly believe that there can be no real growth unless it is sustainable. however, we must start working now, involving all parties before paris: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, to the council, to the european parliament, to the foreign and diplomatic service, to parliament, to the commission and to all those who deal with the subject in the individual countries, with a great sense of mutual cooperation between the institutions. only then can we achieve our goal. i would also like to stress the importance of financing in this area: to recall the commitment of the eu and its member states to progressively increase the mobilisation of climate finance, which is essential for investing in research and sustainable development. i would like to conclude by thanking you, commissioner, for the role you have given to the parliament's delegation at this conference in lima, and we hope that we can continue our cooperation together.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is an illusion to think that if we are less ambitious, if we lower our environmental standards, we will be the most competitive in the world. if the game is played on the downside, europe has already lost. we must not have any doubts about e.t.s. the market stability reserve is necessary and urgent. we must anticipate its entry into force, put back-loading in reserve and overcome the current distortions of the european internal market in support of energy-intensive industries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i note the optimism expressed by the commission on the possible agreement in paris, but reading the minutes of the lima meeting, i believe that the unresolved points which could constitute an obstacle to an ambitious agreement are still diverse and important. first, with the measures in place, it will be very difficult for the reduction of emissions by 2020 to ensure that the temperature increase below 2°c is contained by 2100. unlike the kyoto protocol, however, it is up to individual countries to indicate their contribution to the overall reduction of emissions, while the scrutiny of measures has been reduced to a simple summary of national measures prepared by the secretariat, and there is still no agreed date by which the contracting parties commit themselves to achieving the reduction targets. the distribution of reduction efforts and technical and financial assistance are still to be defined, obstacles which, if not removed before the next paris agreement, risk on their own to bring the negotiations to a standstill, as was already the case in copenhagen in 2009. however, in conclusion, in the final document, one of the options is ... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the latest scientific research has shown that if we really want to achieve the objective of limiting global warming to 2°c, a third of the oil reserves, half of the current gas reserves and over 80% of the coal reserves should remain underground until 2050. yet, as we discuss these objectives, we in the acp delegation approve a resolution which makes agreements for the exploitation of gas, oil and coal in africa. at the same time, therefore, we decide to reduce extraction here in europe and then, instead, implement it in africa. we just need to be less hypocritical.
in writing. the lima conference last december was intended to lay the groundwork for a new international climate agreement to be implemented by 2020. unfortunately, many of the knots to be untied are actually preventing the negotiations from proceeding in a more concrete sense and undermining the chances that the new treaty will contain truly binding commitments for those more industrialized nations. we therefore hope that, in order to give substance to international agreements, each member state will make a strong commitment and we will ensure that the commission respects its priorities in its programme, especially in the part where it says that it wants to make the union 'the world's number one in the field of renewable energy and the fight against global warming'.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to speak about how we insist on considering the mafia phenomenon as something which is not a priority in the european union. the mafia phenomenon, which we deal with from time to time in the committee or on certain issues, is in fact an absolute priority, because it generates corruption, fuels terrorism through illegal proceeds, and generates emergencies and situations of misery, which it then exploits to gain popular consent. we should learn to fight a really serious and coordinated fight between states, through an anti-mafia prosecutor, through monitoring by a permanent commission against organised crime. we should use a wonderful tool, which could be the citizenship income which is a tool that, in addition to guaranteeing dignity, guaranteeing equity, could defeat at the root what is the main source of food for organized crime, which is misery and poverty.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the creation of the strategic investment fund is linked to a strengthening of the process of european integration, as president juncker has often mentioned in his presentation of the fund. this requires direct involvement of citizens and therefore the finding of ways to maximise this potential. so why not allow citizens to feel more part of the project? new forms of fund financing could be found which involve them directly, through a kind of 'micro-donation' or crowdfunding to finance the european project par excellence, the one which has more than others concretely affected the lives of millions of european citizens: the erasmus programme is a good example. i circulated this proposal and received a lot of enthusiastic responses, especially from young people. this means that there is a great desire for europe but that it does not find the appropriate answers, especially the channels through which to realize this desire. it's our responsibility to have the courage and the audacity to try new ways and to give these answers.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, adequate and intelligent protection of intellectual property rights, which encourages investment, innovation and creativity, is a fundamental tool to help europe emerge from the crisis. in this context, infringements of intellectual property rights on a commercial scale are extremely damaging and pose a great danger from many points of view. it is particularly alarming that these crimes are being committed mainly by criminal organizations and mafias throughout europe, which derive enormous profits from counterfeiting. the damage is first and foremost to the businesses, which lose revenue and market share, to the state in terms of tax revenue, and last but not least to the citizens, who put their health and safety at risk. it would therefore be important to understand whether the group of experts set up by the commission has more effective tools than the ohim observatory for combating systematic infringements of intellectual property rights and, moreover, what concrete actions it can promote or stimulate in the fight against illegal counterfeiters set up by mafia or paramafia organisations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, the application of the rules on the protection of intellectual property is a fundamental aspect of the completion of the digital single market. in this connection, apart from the specific tasks which will be assigned to the group of experts, i would like to make a general comment. i believe that the work and tasks of this group should be guided and inspired by respect for and protection of the freedoms and rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and of course in the national constitutions. i say this in view of what has happened, and unfortunately continues to happen, in italy with agcom, the so-called independent administrative authority, which, in defiance of basic fundamental rights such as freedom of expression and the right to report and to defend, applies the regulation on copyright protection on electronic communications networks which it has itself issued in a pedisque manner. fundamental rights and freedoms are the prerequisite for the protection of intellectual property and the achievement of the digital single market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have no further comment to make on the importance of the protection of intellectual property for the competitiveness of our system. i also support and share this oral question, partly because it stresses the need to make the implementation of our strategies as consistent as possible. i would add that this consistency must also be ensured between the internal and external action of the european union, with the due consideration already given during this debate. the commission published in july 2014 the new strategy on the protection of intellectual property in its relations with third-party trading partners, on which the european parliament is preparing its own-initiative report, which includes the protection of trademarks, patents and geographical indications. we therefore ask the commission, in answering this question, to specify what instruments it intends to put in place to ensure that intellectual property is protected not only in the internal market but also in relations with third parties.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, supporting the fight against infringements of intellectual property rights is an unavoidable priority, especially in an interconnected society such as we live in today. it is easy to see a gradual reduction in privacy in communications, as well as in the exchange of digital information between consumers and database holders, data that is collected and used even without the knowledge of the legitimate owners. i am therefore in favour of creating ever greater synergy with the activities carried out by this authority, provided that the criterion of efficiency and economy is maintained and respected. i am also in favour of the possible participation of parliament in the activities, with experts invited to the meetings as observers to facilitate the exchange of best practice, and i am convinced of the need for all necessary regulatory, technical and operational measures to be prepared by the authorities receiving the data to ensure the protection of the confidential information in question.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president of the commission, the internet is an inexhaustible source of knowledge, a guarantee of widespread information, a source of new economic growth, a strategic instrument with geopolitical implications, a new virtual agora that is flanking the historic squares of our cities. the growing importance of the internet has not, however, been matched by adequate governance, ensuring its transparency, democracy, security and neutrality. the union must take a leading role in the world, making up for lost time, in order to make the web more inclusive and secure, without compromising the freedoms and rights that can find new means of expression on the web. citizens must be able to trust the digital environment to take full advantage of new opportunities, such as e-commerce and the many services that the network can offer. the agreement on the directive on the security of information networks would be a first but significant step in this direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, through internet governance we have the opportunity to maintain this place, which is an open place, a strong place, a place where society has largely rediscovered itself, and to leave the space within the internet to create value, to exploit the trust that the internet fosters, so that the internet is also a place of development and not just, as has often happened lately, a place of danger, but also a place of insecurity. we have a duty to foster true governance. i disagree with those who say that it has also emerged in today's discussion that the concept of governance is incompatible with the concept of the internet. i don't think that's the case. governance is not a protective, closed-off surveillance, it's a framework through which we try to make that space a space of opportunity for everyone. i'm convinced of that. i am certainly convinced that there is a need to make progress. it is true that the iacc is still subject to california law, and so in a space as vast as the web, we cannot but imagine an evolution in this respect as well, and you have correctly anticipated this, and i thank you for that. i hope that this parliament will maintain a position within the internet governance forum and that this place, this web governance environment will maintain its role over time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the renewal of the mandate of the internet governance forum must be strongly supported by this parliament. since its inception in 2005, the forum has had a great merit in fostering a transparent and multilateral debate on internet governance, also increasing the degree of cooperation between institutional stakeholders and civil society. the internet is playing an increasingly important role in our lives. but alongside its development, there are a number of issues which must be given the highest priority by the european union. i am thinking, for example, of the protection of minors on the web, the protection and promotion of freedom of expression, the problems of privacy and data security and the problem of the attribution of certain domains on the web, such as .wine. i therefore believe that, given the global interconnectedness of all these issues, it is the european union's responsibility to support the forum. the european parliament delegations should therefore continue to promote european values through interaction with civil society organisations and representatives of national parliaments present at the forum, with the aim of ensuring that european citizens have an open, independent and secure network based on freedom of expression.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i would like to cordially thank you for this fruitful debate. many issues raised today are the focus of the commission’s work on the dsm. the commission is a strong supporter of the multi-stakeholder model for internet governance. it is also thanks to the involvement of the multi-stakeholder community that the internet, with its transnational and multidimensional nature, has been able to flourish and bring about innovation with all the benefits of the digital revolution. the igf has successfully brought together different stakeholders for open and frank discussions. even if much more can – and should – be done to improve this forum further, it has proved very helpful and valuable. as you know, the commission has been one of the most stable and committed financial contributors to the igf. this is vital for the stability that an organisation needs to function properly. to conclude, the commission very much appreciates your work in this area. genuine progress is necessary on internet governance so that there are structures that are inclusive, transparent, accountable and technically sound. otherwise the risk is that more intergovernmental approaches will gain momentum. the multi-stakeholder governance of the internet needs to be strengthened. it needs to be credible and inclusive. this is where the european union, with its strong values of respect for human rights, diversity and the rule of law, can show its international leadership. we can and should be up to the task.
chairman of the envi committee. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in accordance with regulation (eu) no 1169/2011 on the food information measure for consumers, the european commission published its report on the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for meat used as an ingredient in december 2013, together with a working document on consumer attitudes towards the origin labelling of meat used as an ingredient, the feasibility of possible scenarios for such labelling and the impact thereof. the resolution adopted by the envi committee proposes that parliament should provide input on the indication of the origin of meat in processed foods, which could be useful in view of future legislative proposals by the european commission. the european commission reports to which i referred earlier, as well as some surveys carried out in recent months, acknowledge that more than 90% of the consumers interviewed consider it important that the labelling of processed foodstuffs should indicate the origin of the meat, thus demonstrating the strong interest of consumers in this information, which is one of the factors that can influence their behaviour. this is all the more so when it is considered that at member state level it is estimated that between 30 and 50% of the total volume of slaughtered meat is processed into meat for use as an ingredient in food products, mainly minced meat, meat preparations and meat products. commissioner, today we must win back the confidence of european consumers who, also in the wake of the recent food scandals, including the fraudulent substitution of beef for horse meat, want stricter rules on traceability and information. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the proposal, including a proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of fraudulent use of foodstuffs. the resolution does not forget the role of small and mediumsized enterprises, which are central to our economy in terms of creating growth, employment and development, and the commitment to quality and safe food. i therefore believe that a balanced approach between the different positions and interests involved is the way forward in preparing the new legislation on this subject, which will have to take account of the transparency and readability of information for consumers, while at the same time allowing european companies to operate in a cost-effective and competitive manner, at conditions acceptable to the purchasing power of consumers. on one specific point we would like to ask the commission for more information, namely on the assessment of the possible effects of this measure on prices. the results of a survey carried out by a french consumer association differ considerably from the figures in the european commission's report on the costs of introducing the indication of the country of origin on the label. i therefore ask the commissioner to look at this matter in more detail in order to get a more general picture. however, this assessment should not prolong the time for the submission of the legislative proposal. when the commission publishes its proposal, we will of course react on the substance, together with the council, on the basis of our prerogatives as co-legislators, but we are ready to make our contribution now by working on this motion for a resolution containing our suggestions and our list of priorities. clear, consistent and harmonised rules are needed. we have a lot to do in the coming years and this is a sensitive area for our citizens. we therefore offer a concrete and specific contribution to the european commission today and with the vote on wednesday, asking it to submit legislative proposals to make the indication of the origin of meat in processed foods compulsory. we believe that the information on origin, which is currently provided on a voluntary basis, could mislead consumers and that mandatory information could ensure greater transparency along the food chain and better inform european consumers. finally, we ask that impact assessments be taken into account at the same time, avoiding excessive costs and administrative burdens for businesses. as i said at the outset, our aim must be to regain the confidence of european consumers by reassuring them of the quality and safety of food produced in our territory and by offering them the information they need to make an informed purchase.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our movement has always defended consumers and their right to know where the meat they eat comes from. mrs willmott has explained this very well before, for environmental reasons for example. at present, there is no european obligation to indicate the origin of meat in processed products. this obligation exists only for meat when sold individually. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this is absurd. this is why many producers indicate the country of origin of only one of the ingredients in the final product - of course the country which is more commercially convenient for them - or they freely choose to indicate only the country of final processing of the food, and still benefit from the marketing advantage that this gives. this kind of labelling is of course of no use, it only serves to create unfair competition between companies. in this way a product can be sold as if it were italian, spanish, greek or english, etc., even though the meat in it comes from a completely different country. commissioner, you spoke earlier of voluntary labelling as a possibility. for this reason, in the resolution we asked the commission to set clear rules for producers who decide to use voluntary labelling, but above all we asked for clear rules for those who decide not to use labelling. in our view, the traceability of a product is an added value to the product and if a company decides not to label at that point, it will not have to refer in any way to the origin of any of the ingredients of its product because otherwise consumers will be misled. this is the only position which allows the freedom of choice of firms to be safeguarded and at the same time to protect consumers from fraud. that is why, pending the mandatory labelling we want, we have asked for our position to be adopted by means of an implementing act so that we can adopt these measures much more quickly than directives or regulations. (the president agreed to answer two 'blue card' questions (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to two "blue card" questions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i naturally agree with the honourable member who put the first blue card question because when i spoke of the current situation i was referring to the need to implement a complete labelling system, similar to the one already in place for fresh meat. as regards the second question, the blue card question, i am aware of what you are saying and i agree with you. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. but of course voluntary labelling, especially when it refers to those who do not want to label, can be a way of defending against this kind of position.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, transparency and the indication of the origin of products are two essential elements of european policies. the best conditions for transparency promote the consumption of safe, high-quality products, linked to the territory and the typical excellence of the different european regions, and meet the needs of consumers who, as we have seen, want to know what they are eating and want to know what they are buying. the requirement of a compulsory indication of the origin of meat used as an ingredient in processed products is therefore exactly in this direction. so while it is right to promote the basic principle of compulsory indication of origin, i believe that at the same time we cannot ignore the fact that the mechanisms for ensuring this greater transparency could also, as someone else has already suggested, come at a cost to businesses and therefore to consumers. i listened very carefully to what commissioner katainen said about the cost-benefit ratio that labelling measures can have. we expect a serious and detailed assessment of these aspects, namely of the possible additional costs and the related operational problems, in the documentation which the commission should have already submitted. i also think that where excessive administrative burdens are found to be imposed on food business operators and law enforcement authorities, it would be appropriate not to say that nothing is being done, but rather to provide for a whole series of solutions and simplifications on a case-by-case basis in order to combine transparency and prices, which are undoubtedly high at the moment. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
i'm asking for a blue card. you have mentioned the burden on businesses many times. does this mean that it gives priority and priority to the expenditure of industries which have already caused scandals, for example on horse meat where so many people have been contaminated and poisoned and so many products have been falsely sold, all in order to protect the companies? do you want to prioritize the businesses and the small costs that might be there against the safety for all citizens?
answer to a blue-card question. no, look, i didn't say that at all. i have said, however, that in assessing the need - because i consider it a need - for mandatory labelling of meat, we cannot ignore the fact that this can - it is not necessary that it should - lead to increased costs not only for the large undertakings to which you referred, but also for small and mediumsized undertakings, which are often important precisely in the process of transformation. i therefore believe that where there are these problems and these cost overruns, it is one thing to say that we are abandoning mandatory labelling, but quite another to say that we are envisaging simplification solutions which are in line with the sustainability of the system.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a highly globalised food market - and also on the verge of negotiations on the ttip free trade agreement, which in our view could bring dangers and pitfalls for european citizens and consumers - live animals and their meat travel thousands of kilometres and are often processed and transformed for the sole purpose of maximising profits. the consumer, however, has the right to be able to choose freely what he buys. so concepts such as transparency, access to information and food safety are key, even in the light of the study showing that 90% of consumers want to know the origin of processed meat products. it is therefore strange to note that the commission's impact study on mandatory labelling predicts an increase in costs, and therefore in prices, for operators in the sector, when these data are the result of consultations with the industry alone in the sector without the proper involvement of the other stakeholders and especially consumer associations. it would therefore be important that any increase in costs be based on official or objective scientific data. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we are talking about something that is obvious to everyone. we are talking about something that the european citizens want, that 90% of them want. we need to regain the credibility and trust of our fellow citizens. it seems very simple to me: we have to continue to work on the origin of the meat label. a very serious mistake was made in the last legislature with the regulation which removed the obligation to indicate the manufacturing plant in the products of the big brands. we have had a revolt of our consumers and now, for example in my country, it is happening that not only is the government thinking of running for cover but even the big supermarket chains are buying the newspaper pages to advertise and say that they will continue to put that sign of the plant. today, it seems to me that we are in a parliament which by a large majority wants to continue to work along these lines. as far as costs are concerned, we already have regulation (ec) no 178/2002 which requires companies to have and to keep this information to be given to the competent authorities when they request it. we must not be overwhelmed by those who, in the last parliament, led us to make the wrong decision.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, during the last parliament we drew up the regulation on food labelling and we succeeded as parliament in making the origin of all meat compulsory on the label, just as it was previously the case for beef. it was a great achievement in terms of transparency, for which we fought long as a parliament and which was welcomed by consumers. we now welcome the fact that the committee on the environment has moved to push the commission towards more transparent labelling systems. the committee on agriculture adopted the opinion on the regulation on consumer information during the last parliamentary term, including the obligation of origin also for processed products, single ingredients. consumers must know the origin of food so that they can make informed choices and not be influenced in their choices by labelling systems such as traffic lights which even label extra virgin olive oil as a food hazardous to health. it should be made clear, however, that the indication of origin on the label is not a system to combat the phenomenon of food fraud, which requires a strengthening of controls and sanctions. the sadly known case of horse meat in lasagna was a case of food fraud which would not have been avoided even with mandatory origin labelling.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the decision to make the labelling of processed meat compulsory in the various foods we consume every day is an important milestone in ensuring better traceability, avoiding food fraud with serious consequences for citizens and helping food businesses to choose the best suppliers and products. the only regret is that we have not included a call for the traceability of meat derived from cloned animals which enters our territory from third countries. we have no certainty about the effects produced, let alone their origin. we hope that the commission will take this into account and clarify the whole food chain. european citizens must have the right to know and the freedom to choose. europe has not only a responsibility but above all a duty to inform its citizens about the origin of what is on their plate.
in writing. the motion for a resolution under discussion, by reinforcing the principle of compulsory indication of the origin of meat, could help to regain the confidence of european consumers and at the same time reaffirm the strong sensitivity of this parliament to consumer health and the proper functioning of the food chain. i believe that this resolution has the great merit of giving a concrete answer to the 90% of european citizens who, according to a recent report by the european commission, consider it important that the origin of meat be indicated on the labelling of processed products and who call for greater transparency throughout the food chain in order to be able to make more informed choices. the resolution also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's food safety legislation is fully implemented.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my own region is one of the most depressed in europe. in the south of italy, particularly in the province of caserta, which was once known as the 'land of work', we have been witnessing for years an unprecedented industrial desertification, with the disappearance of labour-intensive enterprises such as firema, jabil, indesit, ixfin, the former olivetti and now also the ericsson case. the swedish company has in fact started a transaction to sell the business of the marcianise site to a subcontractor, the multinational usa jabil, putting about 1,000 workers at risk. the european union must relaunch its industrial policy with forms of intervention which, taking account of the globalisation of markets, guarantee a system of rules and aid capable of affecting and avoiding distortions in locations. the aim must be to revive a strong european production system that is competitive on the world stage. it is necessary to take urgent measures to protect the business and labour fabric, discouraging relocations and redundancies, such as the one ericsson is about to carry out in the province of caserta, which can only cause further damage to the social and economic fabric which is already seriously compromised.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is unacceptable that in 2015, after countless petitions for complaints, questions, meetings, working groups and fact-finding visits, it has still not been possible to define precisely what each member state and each jurisdiction must mean by the expression 'the best interests of the child' or 'the best interests of the child'. it is unacceptable that some member states, and especially germany, should interpret this interest as the relationship of the child to the only german parent, as the use of the only german language and as the systematic short, medium or long-term cancellation of contacts with the parent and the entire non-german family. this interpretation of the best interests of the child leads the courts of that country to issue judgments of german law but in violation of fundamental rights and those recognized in the european charter. every attempt to clarify this point has been blocked in the name of the subsidiarity of family law, thus trampling on the most basic human rights in a european union which stands as a champion of the rule of law.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today, 10 february, is the day of remembrance in italy of the victims of the phoenician tragedy and the julian-dalmatia exodus, the italian-speaking indigenous population of istria, kvarner and dalmatia, conquered by the former yugoslavia after the end of the second world war. we are talking about thousands of people brutally murdered simply because they spoke italian and about 350,000 exiles who fled their homeland, with 90% of the territory being emptied. the italian-speaking minority is calling on the council of the european union to renegotiate the formally expired rome agreement between italy, slovenia and croatia and to introduce italian-language toponyms.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have always considered this to be an institution where citizens' rights are the priority, where citizens' demands and voices are the first objective to work on. but unfortunately, especially in recent years, the rights of citizens have been buried by much larger interests, by financial interests, by big speculation, and all this very often generates protest, generates a sense of dissatisfaction. let us not forget that there are so many citizens and workers in europe, those who are still left, who live below the poverty line, people who have lost their jobs, people who have lost their homes, people who live on the streets, people who have nothing to feed their children, children who have stopped going to school. the protest is the consequence. of course, the aim is to provide a remedy and a buffer for people who protest. so we saw what happened last year in greece, when teachers protested and the then prime minister denied the right to strike, citing the obvious possibility of social unrest as a reason, and with this excuse he took away the right to strike. i saw it with my own eyes a few months ago in rome, when the workers of the ast went to protest against the crisis in the steelworks and were charged by the police, they were beaten. i saw guys i knew well get beat up. that's what can happen. the right to strike is a sacred right that no one can take away from anyone, that workers must be protected. i would expect that in 2015 those who are rights that were won by others, that were left to us as an inheritance, would not even be an occasion for argument or comparison. the rights, the inalienable rights, the rights that we have won, the rights that others before us and for us have won, should not be taken away from people in the slightest. if there's a protest, you don't act on the protest, you go to solve the causes of the protest. i expect this from europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the right to strike is one of the fundamental rights of working people. there are three conditions that are closely linked and must never be separated: the possibility for the worker to organise and represent himself collectively, the possibility to negotiate his living conditions and the possibility to use the strike. without organization there would be no collective bargaining and collective bargaining would be a pure mystification if there were no possibility for the workers to initiate counter-actions by their interlocutors, in this case the enterprises. it's a chain that must never be broken. and it's so natural that this happens in all parts of the world. all the developed countries, but also the growing and developing countries, have this certainty for the people who work, and it is so natural that the european charter of rights, in article 28, has not by chance combined the right to bargain with the right to strike. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i believe that any national or supranational body which cares about the value of work, the social value of work and the dignity of working people should always guarantee the three fundamental rights i have mentioned: the right to organise, the right to bargain and the right to use the strike as a tool. if there are conditions or reasons for protecting, especially in the field of services, users who may be adversely affected by the free exercise of a right, then it is up to the organizations to determine the forms and methods of defence.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am the first to thank you because i joined this parliament at the age of 26 and therefore i call myself part of the erasmus generation but also of the precarious generation. what you are doing and the initiative of the commission and president junker, who has always paid particular attention to youth unemployment, is fully supported by the european people's party. i believe that more funds and more funding is a great tool. the problem we see, especially with regard to the member states, is how this money is used, how all the extremely positive initiatives that europe is taking with regard to the member states are implemented. the youth guarantee fund, which i consider to be an excellent experiment, has not been implemented and adopted in the best possible way by all the member states. some have copied and pasted the ads into the interim agencies. this is extremely wrong. we do not need a copy-and-paste system, we young people need confidence, to be able to believe in this europe too, and what you are giving is a very great message of hope. what i am asking you very strongly, also because italy, my country, is particularly known for not spending the money that the european union gives well, is to be very careful about controlling these funds that we give directly to young people and indirectly to the states, because if they are not well spent they should no longer be given. we must give them to those who are efficient and effective in this spending. i therefore congratulate you. we are fully supportive and ready to help, because i believe that the future of europe depends mainly on the young and when people speak badly of europe, perhaps we should know more about it in this sense.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, while unemployment has increased in europe, youth unemployment has exploded. in five years, the unemployment rate among young europeans has risen from 15% to 25%. in italy youth unemployment is close to 50%. yet, in the face of this social disaster, you are here to talk as usual and the young people who are listening to us from home, from home because they have no work, will hear an hour of words, an hour of tired or bad rhetoric. do you want to understand that for the unemployed the european treaties, europe 2020, the youth initiative are empty and useless words? do you understand that the funds are too few if in italy alone there are 729,000 young people between 15 and 24 without work? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in a position to do so. the problem of the unemployed in europe is europe itself, this europe: the single market, the euro, uncontrolled immigration. there is only one recipe for giving young people hope: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
i'm asking for a blue card. i would like to ask mrs bizzotto whether, in the face of the criticism she has levelled at the european union's action, she agrees that, even as a consequence of her reflections, the correct conclusion should be to proceed with a strengthening of economic integration, a full fiscal union and, therefore, i am thinking of a strengthening of the instruments of governance of the single currency within the eurozone, on which i think there are contradictory positions on the part of her political group, at least the italian one, the northern league.
answer to a blue-card question. let 's be very clear: we want a different europe, a europe which does not impose absurd rules and absurd directives, a europe which does not kill our economy with european treaties which go nowhere. we want this europe to be centred on the people, not on the financial lobbies, the banks and the interests of a few. if this europe changes, it is our europe. otherwise there is no point in continuing to remain in this europe which is killing the hopes of our young people and our citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the communication on flexibility, this proposal to increase the amount of prefinancing by eur 1 billion to speed up the youth employment initiative is certainly good news for european citizens, an opportunity for europe to disarm those who want to make the european project fail. we need parliament to reach a common position on the commission proposal quickly and, above all, we need a firm commitment from the member states. on this point at least, under the circumstances, europe is doing its part and it is time for the member states to do their part more than has been done so far. some countries, for example, have not made adequate use of the youth guarantee to bring inactive young people back into the labour market. i should like to point out, however, that the commission proposal does not contain any changes to the multiannual financial framework. i think we need to start discussing this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need a new and decisive economic policy for investment and greater social justice, otherwise there will be no new jobs despite the commission's efforts.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there is no doubt that the decision under discussion is the result of a new awareness of the difficulty in many member states of taking the necessary and indispensable planned measures to promote new and more effective active labour policies. we shall therefore, certainly in a more rapid manner, pursue the objective of making it possible for young people to acquire new skills in training courses which are increasingly geared to the needs of the business system, the business system which has accepted the challenge of innovation and which today contributes to a climate of cautious optimism linked to the first signs of recovery, at least in my country. but the challenge ahead is certainly much more ambitious and calls for us to make the most of the human capital of young people. we ask them to join us in promoting a new culture of enterprise and work which will foster growth in a new framework of social responsibility. i am therefore working, but i am working with quality, and the quality of work, today as yesterday and certainly as tomorrow, is declining above all in the field of workers' rights and dignity.
in writing. this week in strasbourg, the european commission proposed to mobilise €1 billion over 2015 for the youth guarantee initiative. we believe that this new aid, should it come to fruition, can really help our young people. the italian government will, however, have to monitor programmes from the various regions in a better and more transparent way over the next few years. we know the total number of young people who have joined the youth guarantee scheme (more than 400,000 according to the latest official figures), but we do not know how many have found a fixed or permanent job. we will continue to monitor the evolution of the initiative in general and the possible mobilization of large resources for 2015 in the committee on culture and education and through the youth intergroup.
in writing. in europe we have very high levels of youth unemployment (23.5%) with huge disparities between member states (in july 2014 germany at 7.8% and spain at 53.8%). one in five young europeans is unemployed, yet there are some 2 million jobs available, largely due to a mismatch between skills acquired and skills needed, the so-called 'skill mismatch'. one of the main weaknesses in the functioning of the youth guarantee is related to the difficulty of member states in prefinancing the start of the activities planned at european level. this is particularly true for countries with more severe budgetary constraints. to speed up and strengthen the implementation of projects to support youth employment by the member states, the commission is proposing to advance by 2015 eur 1 billion in pre-financing, a measure which i hope will be supported swiftly by parliament and the council. to meet this challenge, we need to invest, and invest well: the commission has also made a number of proposals in the past, including the introduction of a new system of own resources for the structural funds. in this context, the proposal presented today by commissioner thyssen reinforces what we would like to see as the new course of european policies.
in writing. i would like to congratulate my friend, the employment commissioner, marianne thyssen, on her initiative for youth employment. with an extra €1 billion, member states will have the funding they need to launch immediately measures to create jobs, traineeships and education and training programmes for young people in need. as commissioner thyssen has rightly pointed out, youth unemployment is one of the most serious problems facing society today and is likely to have serious socioeconomic consequences, including for future societies. the workforce is one of our most valuable resources, and we must promote it. we must work together, on the one hand, with the european commission and the funds it makes available, and on the other hand, with the governments of the member states, with the appropriate projects and reforms to make the best use of them. one in five young people in europe today is unemployed; according to the data we have, in italy, the number of young people without work and without any training is as high as 729,000. we can no longer accept this situation. as members of the european parliament we must be united in supporting this new initiative of the commission and we ask the council to do the same. thank you, sir.
in writing. the 30% increase in the pre-financing rate for the youth employment initiative is good news. i think it is very appropriate that, alongside the juncker plan, which we all hope will actually lead to an increase in employment, a substantial investment should be made in a specific initiative for young people. i am afraid that even if there is an increase in the number of jobs available, young people will still have enormous difficulties in accessing the labour market for several reasons: the main reasons for this are: inefficient supply-demand linkages and insufficient vocational training in the later stages of their education. this initiative could be a very important help in both areas, access to employment and vocational training, and i hope it could be the beginning of an overall (and permanent) improvement in the system of linking education and work. the member states now have the resources to make a real difference in a dramatic situation, and it is their responsibility to make the best use of them.
in writing. mobilizing €1 billion in funding for the youth employment initiative could help up to 650,000 young europeans enter the labour market or re-enter the education system. i hope that this accelerated prefinancing will help to give a real boost to youth employment, which remains one of the key priorities on our european political agenda. it will be up to the member states to ensure that these funds are made available to the beneficiaries immediately after the operational programmes are approved. we must not forget, however, that this plan alone will not achieve the objectives we have set ourselves in the fight against unemployment. i am convinced that it must be accompanied not only by complementary measures to tackle the root causes of unemployment but also by a more in-depth discussion of european policies in this field. it is not only young people who must be given the opportunity to regain their right to work, but all unemployed people.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, worker participation in company profits and ownership sharing can certainly, as we have seen and as all of you have said, bring financial and non-financial benefits to both workers and companies. giving workers the opportunity to participate in the business and its management means making people more aware, more responsible and more involved in the whole work process and allows entrepreneurs to be more efficient and more productive. i am not saying this because i have heard it or because i have theories, but because i have been consulting in small and medium-sized businesses for years, and this was exactly the approach that we have always used, a win-win approach where both entrepreneurs and workers have to win, and they have to be part of the same team and fight to achieve the same goals. i can say with pride that all the companies that have followed this approach, the small and mediumsized italian companies, in the past years, have been companies that have seen their profits and turnover increase and have seen the living conditions of their workers improve. so this is the really correct approach and the approach we have to take. we have worked a great deal on investment in training and these firms have always developed much more than other investment in training. so it is really time to ask the commission for a really executive approach and for concrete action in this direction. we must find rules which are precise, which are certainly capable of protecting the employee's share of the workforce, as it should be, but which finally give both companies and workers the opportunity to develop a new model of business management, really giving the entrepreneurs the opportunity to play their part in a much more active way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, employee financial participation schemes can be a very important instrument for improving the level of social protection for european workers. these are intelligent schemes that seek to achieve positive situations, objectives and outcomes for workers and businesses, maximising social utility. but this can only happen under certain conditions. firstly, it is essential that the commission improve access to information on these plans, which will have a beneficial impact on the european economy in proportion to their dissemination. in this sense, the transnational aspect cannot be underestimated in order to activate a truly european system that overcomes potential situations of double taxation or forms of restriction on the exercise of economic freedoms guaranteed by the treaties. the resolution adopted by the european parliament in january 2014 underlines how such instruments can act as a sort of buffer that distributes investment risk among the main shareholders of companies, while also ensuring that employees have a stock portfolio of savings. it remains crucial to ensure that, on the one hand, these instruments do not replace traditional welfare measures, which are essential to maintaining european standards of social protection, already heavily hampered by the shortsighted application of these doctrines that we have seen in recent years concerning the consolidation of national budgets. on the other hand, these instruments must be directed towards a truly sustainable model of managing the economy, investing in the highest level of consultation and participation of workers and trade unions at all stages. the objective of reducing social inequalities must therefore be a priority at the heart of these instruments.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this is a subject which fascinates me very much. i come from a country that has built its fortune through this kind of grassroots action. of course, there is a great deal of concern and the six questions asked by the rapporteur are important, especially when a worker is there with his job and his savings. that is the great concern. i think, however, that we need very broad and very clear rules, which we can call a framework, where communities have the capacity to turn the same enterprise into a community. it is very important that workers with the social partners and the enterprise with the intermediate bodies build guarantees. we can do this together, and it is very important for unemployment that small businesses, which today more than ever need resources that they cannot find in order to grow, in order to increase their employment, can do so without those strings and ties, as we say, which compromise the higher costs without some institution being there more to disturb than to facilitate. we have to regulate, regulate well, but the business community has the capacity: workers and entrepreneurs. i believe that more should also be done on the participation of workers in the profits of good performers. entrepreneurs must do more, because a community-enterprise has development and prospects, whereas a community that cannot do business has neither development nor prospects.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the financial participation of employees is a wrong and hopeless hypothesis. it is not sensible to put a single person at risk of losing a salary because his company is closing down and at the same time of seeing his savings destroyed. it is no accident that all those who spoke asked themselves how this contradiction should be resolved. no one has a proposal. the reason is simple: the role of the shareholder is inconceivable and incompatible with that of the worker. only a cooperative solution can therefore guarantee the unity of these two functions. any other solution is impracticable. then, commissioner, you must agree among yourselves: on the one hand you want to encourage stable shareholding, on the other hand you want to encourage labour mobility. in the case of employees becoming shareholders this contradiction explodes. so we're looking for a composition between capital labour in the traditional form, which is to assign roles and functions to the collective representation of one and the other.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, the proposal in question takes over directive 2011/82/eu, which was annulled by the court of justice of the european union because it was adopted on the basis of an incorrect legal basis. today's proposal is a further step forward towards european integration, because it facilitates the cross-border exchange of information on road safety offences, such as speeding or drunk driving, and puts an end to the anonymity of non-resident drivers. it also ensures that road traffic offences do not go unpunished and demonstrates that all drivers in the european union have the same rights and duties. road safety can only be achieved if the rules are certain and are respected by all. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. we must also remember that each member state is a destination for tourists from other member states of the european union and that the possibility of exchanging information with other member states therefore improves not only safety but also consumer rights. the era of impunity is over, but i think that a further step forward could be to allow not only the exchange of information but also the possibility of directly applying sanctions. so a revision of the directive would be desirable in this respect too. in conclusion, i think that there is a change in the legal basis today, so a formal aspect, but i also think that it is a substantial aspect to make citizens aware of driving safety and therefore the protection of the human person.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament is faced today with the important responsibility of having to adopt the new directive on the cross-border exchange of information on road safety offences before 6 may 2015, in order to avoid creating a legal limbo that could undermine road safety in europe. the directive has already shown its potential. since its entry into force in november 2013, the number of offences committed by foreign drivers, now aware that any offence committed abroad can be notified to them thanks to this new mechanism, has in fact decreased. however, legal certainty is needed and is therefore crucial, especially when we consider that, although the european union is on track to achieve the target of reducing road deaths by 50% by 2020, the economic crisis has led to an increase in the number of road accident victims due to the ageing of the car fleet and radical cuts in infrastructure maintenance costs. the introduction of binding and non-discriminatory measures against impunity on european roads must therefore be a priority for this parliament, including by urging the european commission and the member states to cooperate by strengthening the exchange of information and drawing up joint reports on road safety.
the president of the republic of congo, mr giscard d'estaing, has just been elected president of the republic of congo. no postponement of the election calendar. no more resorting to false devices that risk alienating millions of citizens from democracy. good governance and the rotation of power is a constant that has been lacking for too long and in too many countries. we are outraged at the dozens of people who were brutally murdered just for legitimately protesting against the amendment of the constitution and the electoral law. we condemn the arrest of vano kiboko and other leading local opposition figures and protesters and call for their immediate release. we condemn the repeated violence against women and call for those responsible for such atrocities to be brought to justice. madam president, recognizing the legitimacy of the opponent in democratic competition is the only way to avoid violence and conflict. this is the great responsibility which is expected of the current congolese leadership, and this is what the european union must demand, bearing in mind that no violation of human rights will ever be tolerated by the international community or the international criminal court in the hague. in this context, we express our support for the monusco mission in its efforts to consolidate peace throughout the congolese territory. finally, madam president, i express my shame as a european citizen at yet another tragedy which has claimed the lives of 29 migrants off the coast of lampedusa, a tragedy which has gone unnoticed. more human lives are added to the list of thousands of women, men and children who are guilty of seeking a better life on european soil.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to quote a writer from my own country, flaiano, i would say that the situation in the democratic republic of the congo is still very serious, but far from serious. just think of the despicable cover-up by which the current president wanted to try to postpone the elections. unfortunately, in many countries which were formerly colonies of our member states, the example of ten years of colonization has led the ruling class to believe that democracy is the dictatorship of the majority, whether real or perceived, and not the maximum protection of the rights of the opposition, and so president kabila is trying to make the country his personal property, as the king of belgium did in the past. it is time for us to be consistent and say enough and to demand that our companies give up for ever the raw materials that are soiled with blood. this year we have been asked to do so by a great man, our sakharov prize winner, dr mukwege, and we must put his words into action. otherwise, the prize we have rightly awarded him will simply become the prize of our hypocrisy.
mr president, i see that the debate on the congo is very passionate in this house, i see that there is a great deal of excitement. i feel like i'm in the mariuccia pension in italy, where there are practically pensioners playing cards and making small talk while waiting for him to arrive in the evening to make dinner. then i see the high representative for foreign affairs and security, mogherini, here. i'd like to say a poetic phrase, mr. representative: i have seen the results, not in congo, where i would like you to go and never come back, but in ukraine, where merkel went to talk to putin about this problem together with hollande, you count an emeritus, excuse the fucking term. you are nothing, i mean nothing in this europe! and to wake this house up, you sleep on your feet, europe doesn't matter! it doesn't matter! wake up a little bit! wake up, people! wake up, people! wake up, people! wake up, people! you are asleep! we need a europe... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 96,000 homes of palestinian refugee families have been damaged or destroyed, 90% of the inhabitants of the strip are unemployed and without income, many people are still sleeping in the rubble and children have died of hypothermia, ladies and gentlemen. i would like to think about this for the donors who have not kept their commitments to unrwa for gaza, who have betrayed their word, those promises made very hastily to get a few flashes and some beautiful souvenir photos in cairo. the union must not only set a good example by being the most prompt to pay, but also demand that the other partners pay without further delay and without apology the contributions that are indispensable to the agency's work. i would remind those who raise the risk of misuse of funds that this requires finding the best way of avoiding it, not cutting it. you don't cut off a hand to keep it from picking up a gun, you explain to it why it shouldn't pick up a gun. otherwise we are more barbaric than those who would like to take it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 2014 has been a particularly difficult year for palestinian refugees who continue to suffer under the occupation and continue to be robbed of their homes, their daily lives and, in many cases, their very lives. the last year of conflict has also destroyed gaza's economy, which was already weakened by years of blockade. in such a desperate situation, unrwa has been forced to suspend its cash assistance programme and the consequences of this interruption could be dramatic. the unrwa is the only element of stability in a highly precarious political and security environment. i believe that the european union must call upon the international community to assume its responsibilities in ensuring that the immediate humanitarian needs of this impoverished community are met. i am referring in particular to the allocation of 100 million in the first quarter of this year to enable families who have suffered minor damage to repair their homes and provide rent subsidies. this would prevent many families from returning to the collective centres, which are still hosting as many as 12,000 palestinian refugees.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about unrwa, we are talking about the fact that the funds are insufficient and it seems clear to me that we all agree that sufficient funds should be provided and that those who have made commitments in cairo must keep them. but the paradox of this debate, which of course ends up in the classic debate between palestine and israel, is that, as mr nart said, we first finance the destroyer and then we finance the reconstruction. it is a somewhat ambiguous attitude that we have as the european union. so i would say that we should look for a solution, besides securing funding for the agency at the moment, which is political, and therefore guaranteeing the two states, guaranteeing the palestinians a peaceful future and going to prevent those who receive funding from us from destroying or we will always be in the same situation.
i'm asking for a blue card. i wanted to ask a question to the person who spoke a moment ago. my question is this: if we have our high representative for foreign affairs and security here, that is, if he represents all of europe, why did merkel and hollande have to go and represent all of europe? our representative asked us a moment ago that we should give ukraine a lot of money because it needs it and it represents all of europe. but then, is europe represented by merkel and hollande or by mogherini? because if mogherini doesn't represent you, there's no point in her being a representative. i'm asking you what you think of what i'm saying.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the winds of war blowing over europe should encourage us to remain united and not divided, and should curb the somewhat pavlovian reactions of our colleagues in eastern europe who, as soon as they hear about russia, think that it is still the cold war. the cold war is over. today, as the representative of the duma rightly said yesterday, europe should be concerned about isis, that is a threat! but the international monetary fund and the european union are preparing to give billions of dollars to ukraine. but not a single euro for poor greece, which is on its knees, which your austerity policy has brought to its knees. so let's see what's causing this crisis. there is a stone guest behind, which may be nato, and russia had notified all the western chancelleries that nato's proximity to its borders would provoke reactions. he didn't take it into account. a strong geopolitical force should be the driving force behind europe's choices, and it is incredible that the high representative should leave this role to two nations that do not represent all of us. the conclusions reached in minsk will not solve the problem because, even if there is self-determination in donbass, this will not be the solution to the problem. the problem is geopolitical and must be tackled with clarity and not with the usual hypocrisy and weakness represented by the phantom role of the european high representative. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a blue-card question. i thank you very much for pointing out the validity of my remark and allow me to say that it is simply incredible that this european union does not have a european foreign policy. this situation proves the impotence and the inexistence of european foreign policy. if we were not already eurosceptic, we would be today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the headlines today of yet another debate between guelphs and ghibellines in this house. then i'll take the opportunity to use them for a thank you with a little bit of bitter irony. i thank the governments of the two founding countries, france and germany, for the unusual and unilateral initiative, although perhaps motivated by good intentions, of the last few days. i would like to recall in particular the words of president hollande in this house on 5 february 2013: we must have the necessary clarity to develop a strategy for a genuine common foreign policy, for a european defence. france is ready. it is time, once again, to put an end to the dispersion of initiatives and to rally our forces and our resources. europe must speak with one voice and act to resolve the conflicts that are hurting human consciences. what a fine speech, one of many heard here in these halls. it is a pity that it has now become a new version of an empty chair, and the chair was the most important one, that of the person who should and must, in my view, represent the european union in these premises. i therefore express my support for his position and his work and regret that france and germany have behaved in this way and with a touch of irony i say that i would like to nominate them for the eurosceptic award 2015. with a little bit of irony, bitterness and hope that diplomacy and common sense will prevail in minsk... (the president cut off the speaker)
the agenda includes the discussion of the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the review conference of the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons (npt) in 2015 (2015/2555 ((rsp)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the npt and the ctbt are acronyms which are unfortunately completely unknown to too many millions of european citizens and which are causing a bitter smile to those who deal with international relations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am particularly referring to the five veto-wielding members of the un security council, not to mention india, pakistan, north korea and israel. none of these states has ever removed the use of these weapons from its military doctrine and so it is normal to see postponements, tactical positions, unjustified and unjustifiable absences. you know who was present in oslo in march 2013, in nayarit in february 2014 and most recently in vienna. our commitment to multilateral nuclear disarmament, as you said earlier, madam high representative, must be common and total to our member states and to all other states that have similar arsenals, especially at a time like this when we know very well what kind of geopolitical confrontation is taking place on ukrainian soil. we must have a legally binding instrument and, from this point of view, i welcome the possibility of a resolution by parliament. a final thought on nuclear testing and the ctbt. if they ask the marshall islanders who have been the guinea pigs for nuclear hell what it means and how important it is that we have a total ban on these kinds of experiments, we will support their demand for compensation from the united states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, in view of the ninth five-year review of the npt, it is a pity that parliament has decided not to table a resolution this time, thus breaking with a practice which has been established for years. there were indeed resolutions in both 2005 and 2010. we are thus failing to express our voice fully. at a time of uncertainty such as the one we are going through, i am thinking of the negotiations with russia on ukraine, but also at a crucial moment for a possible conclusion of the nuclear talks with iran, the work of our high representative would undoubtedly have benefited from formal political support from parliament. this time, in fact, it is not just a matter of thinking in the long term, it is not a matter of the background. nuclear non-proliferation has an impact on some of the most sensitive scenarios for the union's external action. that is why i think we have lost an opportunity, but that does not prevent us from continuing our work and, why not, from imagining new ways out of the present impasse. i am thinking in particular of the humanitarian initiative for nuclear disarmament, which at the vienna conference last december gained real momentum with the accession of 44 states, and which we should seriously consider as a possible option for reviving the original ambition of the npt.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the review of the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, which will take place in new york in may 2015. it is sad to talk about nuclear weapons after 70 years. because the truth is this: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i still hear talk of ensuring our security through nuclear weapons, but whose security? i think we have now reached the point where nuclear weapons should be completely eliminated from the face of the earth, because they are only a threat to mankind, they are of no use at all. unfortunately, we as a union have no power in diplomacy, so those who have it and those who want to use it will continue to use it.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, i will start with a remark made by one of the last speakers, which was very clear and said it all: we have to protect the non-proliferation treaty (npt), we have to strengthen it, we have to make sure that it achieves universal membership and application, and we have to respect it formally and substantively. this is the core of the european union message to the npt review conference. someone else said, with a generational reference – and i very much share their view, and i guess some of the members here will also share it – that it seems obvious to a large part of the european population that we should not even need to discuss these issues. however, i believe that we have a long way to go in the world. obviously, we have a long way to go on the non-proliferation pillar, and the negotiations on the iranian nuclear programme will, as i said, impact on the conference itself. i hope that we will see substantial developments by then, and i can assure you that i am playing my personal role, with all the dedication possible, to make those talks positive. this could be a historic opportunity because, while we are talking about disarmament, the non-proliferation pillar is just as important as disarmament. one reinforces the other in a sort of credibility cycle, which is why we have to work on the three pillars of the treaty together. just let me mention two things from the debate that i would like to underline. the issue of a resolution is obviously in your hands and not in mine. still, i take this debate as an encouragement, and i would very much appreciate keeping this channel open, as you mentioned, through the committees here, with a view to the preparation for the conference – firstly because the european parliament has a voice to raise, and also because it is important that we keep the channel open for communication on these issues with civil society organisations, public opinion movements and national parliaments. i believe that this is one of the things that affect our security and the security of our citizens very much. sometimes there is an illusion that the npt is about goodwill, good feelings or the good sentiments of some naive persons around the world: in fact, it is very much linked to our security and it is a security debate that we are having. the last thing i would say is that it is precisely because of the security threat and the tensions around us that we need to work on this: on implementation, on all sorts of disarmament measures and on the steps that have been started in the last decade and the last few years. someone mentioned the obama doctrine, with the prague speech, and the fact that it provided an impetus which was very relevant. we should not allow the tensions that we are facing in the world – not only in europe but also elsewhere – to detract from the real purpose of our work on the npt and the connected treaties, which is to increase our security, and not to relinquish it. i want you to be assured of my personal dedication to that, and i will obviously try to do my best to make sure that the european union’s voices are not only united but also strong at the conference in new york.
thank you, high representative mogherini. i also thank you for the long marathon you took this afternoon. there were very civil debates, but there were some unpleasant words, and on behalf of the bureau i express our solidarity with you, which will be assessed by the bureau. the debate is closed.
the agenda includes the report by charles goerens, on behalf of the committee on development, on the activities of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly (2014/2154 ((ini)) (a8-0012/2015).
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are starting from the premise of mr charles goerens' report, which is certainly a well-done piece of work, worthy of being shared and which has already been voted on in the deve committee. we support the report except for one amendment which we would like to table again in the house and which concerns possible military interventions in the acp countries. we will ask for the electronic vote to emphasize the need for diplomatic and peaceful intervention in those countries because the conflicts, which are often instigated by western countries, generate a whole series of problems which we discussed at length at the last acp meeting. i shall now turn to the second point, which is the importance of the acp joint assembly. ladies and gentlemen, we have already discussed this. but in fact, when we last met here in strasbourg, at the beginning of december, there were 15 of us and i do not think there was that much interest from the institutions. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we have important objectives and the acp joint assembly is certainly the place where we can discuss and find common programmes. but we should also agree among ourselves whether we think it is important or not. if it's only important for a trip to the caribbean, then we're being a little hypocritical. so let us try to give the right importance to the acp assembly which has been in existence for a long time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the post-cotonou negotiations are a historic moment, an opportunity to re-establish our relations with the countries of the african, caribbean and pacific area. the next few years will see the redefinition of acp-eu relations and cooperation, and therefore opportunities for a strong and active commitment by the member states. in this context, the contribution that the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly can make to the debate is crucial. the structure of this body offers the unique opportunity of introducing the democratic paradigm into trade relations between countries, a model by its nature based on the centrality of the human person, first of all, and on collective well-being, overcoming a model based on power relations with respect for human rights. the assembly also assists countries in strengthening democracy. with this vote, mr president, the european parliament is giving a strong signal of its support for this model of relations, in full sharing of the union's founding values.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i asked to take part in this debate also to express my pride in being part of the acp parliamentary assembly, an extraordinary forum for debate and discussion, for dialogue but also for the intervention of this parliament, which has helped in recent months to shine a light on issues of the highest priority and of extraordinary gravity. i think of ebola, the violence in congo, the massacres in nigeria, the attacks by boko haram, the islamic fundamentalist offensive that is also spreading in africa. to speak of neo-colonialism is instrumental. here we discuss, but we also act, we send observers and we break down prejudices. of course, relationships are not easy. the heterogeneity of the acp countries and regions requires careful reflection and a great deal of diplomacy. we develop strategies, set goals, and verify results. our priorities must be to combat violence, to protect the human rights of women and minorities and to intensify development cooperation, as well as to increase good trade relations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, since there are a greater number of women, and i am also pleased that this subject is being discussed. let us talk a little bit about the numbers of this barbarism, because it is a barbarism. amnesty international tells us that about 3 million women a year are subjected to female genital mutilation - that's about 8,000 a day and we're talking about 500,000 in the european union. many mutilations take place directly on the territory of the union. circumcision, splitting, cauterization, and infibulation are all performed by the same person. we're talking about physical side effects, but more importantly, psychophysical, moral effects, women being robbed of their sexuality, being robbed, in a sense, of their soul. this is barbarism we're talking about. so i agree with commissioner jourová when she says that we have to act in a preventive way and perhaps the action plan can be a good thing, but we certainly have to work on the right of asylum of those who are fleeing or who want to be repatriated to those countries.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i think we should put our discussion in the right context. the issue is not whether europe is christian or not, the issue is not whether we should deal with a tragedy like this with a racist accent, as i have heard this evening. the issue is whether we place women's freedom, women's self-determination, the inviolability of their bodies at the heart of our idea of europe, whether we feel the inescapable need to stop male violence against women, which takes as many forms as patriarchal domination. we know that we cannot wait any longer, we cannot wait any longer to ask the european union to accede to the istanbul convention and to make a concrete commitment to the member states to ratify it. there are no statistics. eurostat, which provides statistics on everything, does not have a precise idea of the extent of the problem in europe. i think that on a day like today, when we are mourning more victims in the mediterranean, we should really raise the issue of the right... (the president interrupts the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it was in 2006 that this parliament for the first time raised the urgency of addressing the issue of fgm from a european perspective, a perspective based on the awareness that, although this phenomenon is rooted in cultures other than our own, many of the women forced to live with the devastating consequences of these practices or even about to be subjected to these practices live within the community's borders. commissioner, in november 2013 the institution you represent here today listed a series of actions aimed at countering this barbaric phenomenon. however, the lack of precise deadlines for their implementation makes it difficult to assess their real effectiveness and therefore the time has come to make a major effort. the support of the member states in the enforcement of national legislation prohibiting this practice must be combined with support for the real victims. we must also work to support the communities and professionals involved in this area. if we are to make this commemoration of the international day against fgm a real event and if we are to contribute to the eradication of this phenomenon, it is time for the time of reflection to give way to the time of action.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, just a few days ago, on the un world health day, the world health organization published terrible figures of a barbaric and cruel practice. an estimated 135 million girls worldwide have been subjected to female genital mutilation. in some countries in the horn of africa, such as somalia and eritrea, but also in egypt and guinea, the phenomenon affects about 90% of the female population. but there are also victims in our europe, in my italy, where up-to-date estimates tell us that at least 40,000 women are still subjected to the violent practice of fgm, which deprives them of sexual pleasure, makes them objects and not individuals, and even threatens their lives. we must fight for strict legislation to prohibit these practices, to provide for sanctions and adequate assistance for the victims. we must promote a targeted information campaign, directed at those who justify a tribal practice for cultural and religious reasons. we are supporting the call of amnesty international and we are also encouraging the women who are saving their babies.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the figures on the intolerable practice of female genital mutilation are still alarming in third countries as well as in the union. in addition, data are incomplete, making it even more difficult to develop prevention strategies and targeted interventions to protect current and potential victims. the sanctioning reaction is almost non-existent, all too often because of the lack of complaints by the victims. for minors, there is also a risk of secondary victimisation in the event of separation from parents as a result of conviction. the list of actions presented here today by the commissioner to eradicate this phenomenon is certainly significant, but it must be transformed into concrete actions, into appropriate legislation, into awareness campaigns and into an acceleration of cultural progress within and outside europe, aimed at countering, but above all at preventing, this and all other forms of violence against women and girls.
on behalf of the efdd group. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament's right to vote is respected, and that the european parliament's right to vote is respected. the available statistics, although outdated, indicate a worrying increase in the phenomenon. the fact that the national courts are involved does not, unfortunately, provide adequate guarantees of resolving the crisis except in the context of judicial cooperation between different states. outside of relations between member states of the union, where the brussels iia regulation applies, only the multilateral mechanisms provided for by the hague convention provide the legal instruments for the return of the child. today we are seeing the opportunity to extend to eight more states the guarantees provided for by the hague convention, an instrument which, while not ignoring the complexities, including economic ones, of international judicial procedures, has been a significant success. i believe that we must take the opportunity afforded by this debate to bring the spotlight back to a phenomenon which is both dramatic and widespread, which can have very serious consequences for the health and safety of the child, but also of the parents involved, and which must be resolved by safeguarding the best interests of the child at all times. i therefore believe that it is necessary not only to update the statistics but also to take all the necessary political and legislative initiatives to combat this phenomenon both within the union, by promoting the revision of the brussels iia regulation, and outside, by promoting the accession of other third countries to the hague convention.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the rights of minors must always be our top priority, in this case as in many others. as all the surveys and statistics, even the most backward ones, certainly show, the phenomenon we are discussing is bound to increase. the increasing mobility of people leads to many mixed marriages and separation almost always results in a variety of stresses and strains on children. it is very important that the proposal that has been put forward be approved tomorrow, otherwise we shall have to wait. but we must recognize that the instruments we have are no longer sufficient. i think that the hague convention is very good and has produced important results and i think that the brussels ii regulation should be activated in full effect, but i also think that we must start thinking about how to regulate processes of this kind because if we really want children's rights to prevail, we must also update our instruments.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the hague convention is a fundamental instrument for ensuring the return of children who have been illegally removed or retained abroad by a parent and for ensuring that custody and visitation rights are respected in all states. my country, italy, was the only one to support, even before the court intervened, the exclusive competence of the union in this area, in the awareness of the need for full regulatory and operational coordination between states to avoid approaches aimed at protecting the citizen parent at the expense of the child's best interests. the accession of the eight new member states is certainly to be welcomed. but good cooperation requires first and foremost central authorities which can really serve as a reference for administrative cooperation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the report by mrs heidi hautala, which is a very well-done report and we will certainly vote in favour of it. it is clear, as many of my colleagues have already pointed out, that when we talk about a subject of such fundamental importance as child abduction, we are talking about a priority subject for what the policies of the european union should be. the psychophysical well-being of children must be at the heart of our concerns, and this is clear, especially if we relate it to a change in the world with regard to this very case. because it is clear that globalization and the ease with which we move around bring new problems and the phenomenon of subtraction is a growing phenomenon. these are the facts we have, and it is also certain that the trafficking of children has increased, so we welcome the extension of the hague convention and we are working for a revision of the brussels ii regulation as a matter of urgency.
i would like to say to mr weber that it is not advisable to be the last to enter this war. spain and greece are the countries with the highest unemployment rates in the euro area: 25% unemployment, more than 50% youth unemployment. it is difficult to tell the people of greece and spain that they are doing well and to draw up a list of good countries against bad countries does nothing but divide europe. if there is one thing we must avoid, 70 years after the end of the second world war and 20 years after the end of the yugoslav conflict, it is the return of war to europe. history has taught us that conflict is the poison of our continent and everything must be done to prevent this evil. as long as there is a window of opportunity for negotiation and negotiation, we must move forward. today is an important day in minsk and we hope that a ceasefire will be imposed and that an agreement will be sought which is based on the principle of ukrainian territorial integrity but which also recognises the role of russia. recognising that russia is a global player does not mean accepting that every rule of international law can be broken. we cannot tolerate the peace being sabotaged. if russia does not cooperate, it will have to take responsibility. we do not agree to the spread of weapons on our borders. we must take the path of increasing sanctions and aim to strike at the heart of russian interests. in these hours when the risk of conflict is looming, europe must remain united. i therefore hope, as vice-president timmermans has said, that the informal council will send a message of solidarity and unity to the greek people. we are aware of the enormous suffering paid by the greeks. the lesson from greece is: never again austerity, never again the troika, which has completely misrepresented the recipe. new, more democratic and transparent forms of support for greece must be introduced. we ask the council on thursday to create the conditions for a bridge loan to give athens oxygen in the short term. we don't care about names. we care about substance. to ensure the government can function in the coming months and free up resources to repair the damage of austerity. this loan must be accompanied by reasonable conditions. we must demand from athens a sensible fiscal effort and structural reforms that will defeat corruption and finally combat tax evasion. in the medium term, our group supports a programme of reform and reconstruction between the european institutions, including parliament, and the greek authorities, which includes an ambitious plan of positive reforms, capable of reviving growth and investment. in return, we must be willing to discuss a rescheduling of interest rates and debt maturities. but we must be clear about one principle: debts incurred are to be repaid; we can discuss how, but there is no solidarity without seriousness. we want to help greece, but the greek government must also help itself. this is no time for force and punchlines. and watch out for the road team: no one is allowed to give the new executive a blood test, but frankly, allying with the nationalist right was a bad sign. i conclude on terrorism. there was a risk that our societies would be overwhelmed by fear, but instead our citizens reacted wisely. europe does not want to be held hostage to a climate of tension, it does not give in to the blackmail of those who trade freedom for a little apparent security. the fight against terrorism requires us not to let our guard down, to give convincing answers such as those given by vice-president timmermans and the council representative. we are in favour of greater european cooperation between intelligence services. we confirm in the pnr that we are prepared to do our part, as long as fundamental freedoms are not affected. the priority given by the council representative to de-radicalisation, the fight against social exclusion and education is of the utmost importance. then there's the outer dimension. i would not like the very rightful attention paid to ukraine to obscure the urgency of european action in the world. we can't outsource foreign policy to fighter and drone strikes. we must be very tough on isis, but we must also act on the political causes that have led to its entrenchment in iraq and syria, as mrs mogherini is trying to do. then there is libya, a land of extremist culture 300 km from our shores, a country in complete disarray. the other day, and i conclude, over 200 people died in lampedusa. you can't have people dying in the rescue. all this is happening before our eyes because triton is a european mission, but we must strengthen this mission with men, means and instruments. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a blue-card question. we have been saying for months that the troika is an inadequate and undemocratic instrument and we are pleased that this same consideration was made by president juncker in his declaration of the birth of the european commission. the troika is not the right therapy. interlocutory work must take place between the national authorities and the european democratic institutions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow's summit has three different and distant topics on its agenda, but they are all very important for the european union's ability to react and to propose. the ukrainian question, the fight against terrorism and the crisis of economic and monetary union challenge us and involve us far beyond the respective technical plans. they question our determination to give substance to the founding values of the european union and our ability to put forward credible solutions. as far as monetary union is concerned, how can we deny that the greek question is increasingly a true measure of the meaning of this union? i believe that not only greece but also the many difficulties faced by other states as a result of the austerity policies imposed in the name of genuine economic and monetary union are showing that europe is unable to solve the problem of economic governance in the terms in which it is set. the solution will not come from technical reasoning or financial engineering. the solution can only be found by giving economic value to our common desire to achieve the process of european unification in the face of real difficulties. in other words, by establishing, justifying and spreading a vision of europe which will make it possible to have a clear view of what is valuable and what is not, what makes sense and what does not, and which will be able to put the dignity of the person back at the centre of every decision. the fight against terrorism is a challenge we cannot escape, one that must be met in a comprehensive way, not just in the field of internal security. we must respond with a broad, deep and not hasty strategy. today our fundamental values are subordinated to the economic dimension, in the belief that their role is secondary or even exhausted. the failure to counter inhuman and irrational ideologies has crept into this vacuum, which cannot be fought by perfect financial budgets, but only by proposals for shared values which are applied in practice, first and foremost by the european institutions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that we are facing many challenges today, as has been mentioned by many of our colleagues, but this is a time when we must not simply respond to the needs of the political moment, however delicate it may be. this is a collective challenge that we must take up and win. as my colleague alain lamassoure has said very well, do we want a european pmr or do we want 28 national pmrs? and so is everything. these challenges call on us to be europe, europe proudly europe, with our values, as the council has also said. we must put forward a positive narrative, i agree with what the council has said. then we're gonna be careful because we're looking at a very dangerous escalation. we have moved on from the cold war - and i am referring to the ukraine - which we thought we had forgotten, and in a few weeks we are fearful of the danger of armed conflict. i believe that europe, between nobel prize winner barack obama and putin, must not only seek but must find a way to peace. this is what our fellow citizens ask of us, this is our destiny if we want to be europe. and then there's the terrorism. we have to get out of the box. even with regard to immigration, the dead were mentioned first - and i am sorry that mr pittella is no longer here - but this is false goodwill, because when there was the expensive mission to pick up immigrants, we had 3,538 dead, we were always wrong. we have to get out of our preconceptions. we have to face things head on, listen to each other, recognize the real problem we're facing. and finally, greece. you said it right, the greek people deserve attention. i would say more than that, i would say that greece is the cradle of our civilization, there is no europe without greece and i am convinced that by finding a solution you will also be able to bring the solidarity of the whole parliament to the whole greek people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, an agreement on greece is necessary and possible, and it would be good if everyone, instead of blowing on fire and playing at ideology, showed pragmatism and responsibility. on the one hand, it is clear that debts must be paid and aid cannot be unconditional, but to ask for a primary surplus of 4.5% in a country with 26% unemployment is economically unreasonable and puts the sustainability of the debt at risk and should therefore be a matter of concern to creditors first and foremost. it is possible to agree on an extension of the maturities, more rational conditionalities and a more democratic mechanism for their verification, although this will take time. in the meantime, the gap between a bridge loan and a technical extension of the programme with some revised conditions does not appear to be insurmountable and we ask the commission to help governments fill it by freeing them from their internal political conditioning. in fact, another lesson from this is that a more advanced balance between national democracy and european democracy is needed and this will also have to be one of the main lines of the new revival of the process of deepening economic and monetary union.
i'm asking for a blue card. the vow must always be respected, this is a fundamental condition. i hope that, in the face of so much austerity being imposed on greece, the commission will be aware of the poverty of the member states because, as it has been a problem for greece, it can also be a problem for other emerging countries, such as italy. so i hope that the commission and the commissioners are very well aware of the conditions of the greek people.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. at the heart of the informal summit of heads of state is the sense that the union is increasingly incapable of exercising credible joint action against internal and external threats to its political, social and economic stability. the fight against terrorism, the conflict in ukraine and the obvious crisis of economic governance are problems to which a eurocracy dominated by the economic dimension and enslaved to financial interests obviously cannot give an adequate response. these major challenges require real european political leadership and a far-sighted vision that puts the needs and dignity of european citizens, social cohesion and solidarity between member states at the centre. the real test will be greece, which has called for a clear change in the sign of solidarity, putting the eu in front of the dilemma of whether to continue to preserve the interests of the big creditors at all costs, or whether to finally start listening to the needs of a population strangled by austerity policies that has expressed a clear rejection of the agreements imposed by the troika. the future of the union is at stake here, because to ignore greece's request would not only be to trample on the principle of democracy but also to betray all the values on which the integration project is based.
in writing. we should be sitting here today in the european parliament as guarantors of democracy in europe, as the expression and representatives of the citizens who elected us and put their trust and hope in us. that is why we cannot and must not pretend that what is happening in greece is not very serious and does not concern us all. with last week's decision, the ecb wanted to put greece back on its feet, giving a slap in the face to the greek people who had given a strong signal of change in the recent elections. it is a clear demonstration that in this europe citizens and elections do not count, but we are all slaves to decisions taken in berlin or frankfurt. this action by the ecb risks undermining the very concept of democracy. we cannot stand by and watch this happen, we cannot accept that this is the norm. we are with the greek people and their choices, we must not bow to the dictates of merkel or draghi. europe cannot and must not be all that.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc.
that concludes the voting.
in writing. the duda report analyses the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland. although this is a technical text, i do not agree with the european commission's current policies on trade agreements. that is why i abstained.
in writing. — i voted in favour because i regard the agreement with iceland as very productive and working correctly.
in writing. the proposal is a mere codification of the existing texts, without any substantial changes. despite the purely technical nature of the amendments, i voted against the commercial aspects which i do not share.
in writing. i voted today in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland. the european parliament adopted its position at first reading, adopting the proposal of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, on the grounds that the vote in question was limited to a mere codification of the existing texts, without any substantial amendment.
in writing. the present proposal for a regulation merely codifies the safeguard measures contained in regulation (eec) no 2843/72, without any change to the legal text, as established by the consultative group consisting of the legal services of parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. the 1994 interinstitutional agreement provided for an acceleration of the official codification of legislative texts. during its examination of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (eec) no 2843/72 of 19 december 1972 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland, the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission reached the unanimous conclusion that the proposal is limited to a mere codification of existing texts without any substantial amendments. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. i attach great importance to simplifying and clarifying the wording of eu legislation, so that it becomes more understandable and accessible to citizens, offering them new possibilities to enforce the rights enshrined in the legislation. i voted in favour of the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement with iceland because, by this accelerated method of working for the official codification of legislative texts, they replace regulation (eec) no 2843/72 with a new regulation which preserves the correct substance of the acts being codified and makes only the formal changes necessary for the legislative work.
in writing. i have expressed my support for the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland. the codification of legislative texts is an indispensable step in simplifying and facilitating the understanding of european citizens, thus ensuring the core principles of the european union, such as clarity and transparency, and contributing to the effective implementation of legislative provisions.
in writing. this report concerns a proposal for the codification of eu law. this is a technical procedure provided for in article 103 of the regulation, which is intended to verify that the proposal for codification is in fact merely a codification without any substantial changes. each proposal for codification is examined in advance by the legal services of the commission, the council and parliament. the conclusions of this evaluation are then sent to the legal affairs committee for validation and finally voted on in plenary for final approval by parliament. i voted in favour.
in writing. i will not endorse the text as the trade aspects of the agreement are in opposition to the policies proposed by the european commission.
in writing. - i give my favourable opinion on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland. the 1994 interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the council and the commission, which calls for the codification of council regulation (eec) no 2843/72 to be accelerated, allows for a new regulation to be adopted to replace the various regulations it incorporates, without changing the substance of the regulation but only making formal changes in order to make the regulation clearer and more transparent. the proposal for a regulation on the agreement in question will therefore, we hope, make it possible to provide certainty of the applicable law and greater protection of the bilateral safeguard rules of the agreement.
in writing. i am voting in favour of mr duda's report because i share the aim of this proposal, which is to codify regulation (eec) no 2843/72 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and iceland. i share the importance and the need for simplification in order to achieve ever clearer wording of community legislation, so that it becomes more understandable and accessible to citizens. this objective cannot be achieved as long as the innumerable provisions, which have been amended several times and often substantially, remain scattered, forcing those wishing to consult them to look for them both in the original act and in the amending acts.
in writing. favourable to the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland. the proposal in question is merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. the european union attaches great importance to the simplification and clarity of the wording of community legislation. however, this desire for clarity cannot be fully realised if the provisions which are subject to amendment remain divided into the original act and the amending acts. in view of the foregoing considerations, i voted in favour of the duda report, as i believe that it is essential to codify provisions which have been frequently amended over time, in the name of the desire to ensure the clarity and transparency of european legislation.
in writing. we welcome this proposal for a regulation on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland, given that during its examination the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has concluded that the proposal in question is limited to a mere codification of existing texts, without making any substantial changes to its content.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal, since it merely codifies existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland because, according to the opinion delivered on 17 september 2014 by the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the commission and the council, the proposal for a regulation is merely a codification of the existing texts, without any substantive changes.
in writing. - i have chosen to abstain because, beyond a technical assessment of the text, i fundamentally disagree with the european commission's trade policies within the framework of which the measure in question falls.
in writing. as i do not share the european commission's approach to the positions taken by the world trade organisation, i abstained on the report under vote.
in writing. — i voted in favour because i consider serious measures to avoid dumping and subsidy as fundamental to our european economy and to our single market.
in writing. the measure is technical in nature but i shall abstain. i do not share the european commission's approach to the wto.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the action which the union may take following a report adopted by the wto conciliation body on anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures. the european parliament adopted its position at first reading, adopting the proposal of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, on the grounds that the vote in question was limited to a mere codification of the existing texts, without any substantial amendment.
in writing. the purpose of the proposal for a regulation is to codify the provisions of regulation no 1515/2001 without making any formal or substantive changes to the existing texts.
in writing. the aim of the measure adopted is to simplify and codify the legislation which has been amended, making it clear and transparent. in 1987 the commission gave instructions to codify all acts which had not received more than ten amendments and in 1992 the importance and value of codifying acts was affirmed. in view of the importance of codification in full respect of the timetable for adoption of union acts and the need for citizens of the union to have easy access to european legislative acts, i voted in favour.
in writing. i consider it very important to codify regulation (ec) no 1515/2001, which aims to tackle unfair competition from dumped imports. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution because the new regulation replaces the regulation of 2001, which has already been substantially amended, and makes only the formal amendments necessary for the purpose of codification, with the aim of adapting the body of eu legislation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the action which the union may take following a report adopted by the wto dispute settlement body (dsb) on anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures. these measures are designed to protect the single market against damage to the production system resulting from imports of goods offered at prices lower than those of the same goods sold on the market of origin and against damage to the production system caused by imports of goods produced by third-country firms which have received state aid. since the proposal for a regulation was approved by the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, in so far as it is merely a codification of existing texts without any substantial changes, i thought i should agree with the position of the consultative working party.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which concerns a proposal for the codification of eu law. it is a technical procedure provided for in article 103 of the regulation to verify that the proposal for codification is in fact merely a codification without any substantial changes. all proposals for codification are examined in advance by the legal services of the commission, the council and parliament. the conclusions of these evaluations are then sent to the legal affairs committee for validation and finally voted on in plenary for final approval by parliament.
in writing. the rules concern action following reports by the world trade organisation's conciliation body on anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures. i will not vote in favour of the agreement, because i do not share the european commission's approach to the wto.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of mr duda's report, as the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 1515/2001 of 23 july 2001. it concerns the measures that the eu can take following a report by the wto's dispute settlement body (dsb) on anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures, with a view to increasingly clear and transparent eu legislation.
in writing. the aim of the measure adopted is to simplify and codify the legislation which has been amended, making it clearer and more transparent. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report on anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 1515/2001 of 23 july 2001 on the action which the european union may take in the field of anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures. as the proposal for a regulation drawn up by the rapporteur, mr duda, is, as confirmed by the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, a mere codification of existing texts without any substantial changes to them, i thought it right to support it by voting in favour.
in writing. we welcome this proposal for a regulation on the measures that the union may take following a report adopted by the wto's dispute settlement body (dsb) on anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures, given that the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has concluded during its examination that the proposal in question is merely a codification of existing texts, without any substantial changes to its content.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, since the proposal in question is merely a codification of existing texts without any substantial changes, i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the measures that the union may take following a report adopted by the wto dispute settlement body (dsb) on anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures, as this proposal is a simple codification of existing texts and is also based on the opinion of the legal services consultative group of 17 september 2014.
in writing. - i abstained because i do not share the european commission's approach to the world trade organization.
in writing. the duda report analyses the measures that the union can take in relation to the combined effect of anti-dumping/countervailing duties and safeguard measures. although this is a proposal which merely codifies existing texts and i do not share the approach of the eu commission in these areas, i abstained.
in writing. — i voted yes because the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures should be combined with safeguard measures to be more effective.
in writing. the measure concerns the mere codification of existing texts without any substantial changes. it is a purely technical measure, but i voted against it. i do not agree with the commission's policy of applying duties and safeguard measures which is the basis of this act.
in writing. the purpose of the proposal for a regulation is to codify the provisions of regulation no 452/2003 without making any formal or substantive changes to the existing texts.
in writing. the 1994 interinstitutional agreement provided for an acceleration of the official codification of legislative texts. the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, which also met in 2014 to examine the proposal in question, concluded that the measure is limited to a mere codification of existing texts without substantial changes, having also analysed the regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 452/2003 of 6 march 2003 on the measures that the community may take concerning the combined effect of anti-dumping/countervailing duties and safeguard measures. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. in the case of the imposition of anti-dumping duties, it is necessary to avoid that their effect, combined with that of any safeguard measures, may result in an excessive burden for certain exporters, with the consequent result of cutting them out of the single market. to this end, the council adopted in 2003 regulation (ec) no 452/2003 which allows for measures to be adopted to amend, suspend or repeal anti-dumping or countervailing duties. i voted in favour of this resolution because i was already in favour of the previous agreement of 2003, and the resolution is merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the measures that the union may take with regard to the combined effect of anti-dumping/countervailing duties and safeguard measures. the proposal for a regulation, if it is established that there is dumping, provides for the application of import duties, i.e. duties designed to level the final price of imported goods up to the threshold of the prices prevailing on the market of origin of the goods, unless it is not possible to conclude an agreement with the producers of the imported goods on a minimum price which guarantees the same result. the proposal for a regulation is merely a codification of existing texts without any substantial changes, and given the real benefits it will bring to the internal market in terms of fair competition, i have decided to accept the position of the advisory group.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the measures that the union may take with regard to the combined effect of anti-dumping/countervailing duties and safeguard measures. this is a purely technical procedure provided for in article 103 of the regulation, which is intended to verify that the proposal for codification is in fact merely a codification without any substantial changes.
in writing. the measure concerned is regulation (ec) no 452/2003 on measures to be taken following the combined effect of duties and safeguard measures. i will not support the regulation as i do not agree with the current approach proposed by the european commission in applying duties and safeguard measures.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of mr duda's report because the purpose of this proposal is to start the codification of council regulation (ec) no 452/2003 of 6 march 2003 on the measures which the eu may take with regard to the combined effect of anti-dumping/countervailing duties and safeguard measures. the regulation provides for specific provisions to enable the commission to act in order to avoid that the combination of anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures imposes an excessive burden on the exporting producers to the eu.
in writing. favourable to the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the measures that the union may take with regard to the combined effect of anti-dumping/countervailing duties and safeguard measures. given the importance of codification in full respect of the timetable for adoption of union acts and the need for community citizens to have easy access to european legislative acts, i thought i should express my vote in favour.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal is to initiate the codification of council regulation (ec) no 452/2003 of 6 march 2003 on the measures that the eu may take in respect of the combined effect of anti-dumping/countervailing duties and safeguard measures. the regulation provides for specific provisions to allow the commission to act, at its discretion, in order to avoid that the combination of anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures, with safeguard tariff measures in respect of the same product, imposes an excessive burden on certain exporting producers wishing to export to the eu. since the rapporteur's proposal is merely a codification of the existing texts, without making any substantial changes to them, i have decided to support the document with a favourable vote.
in writing. we welcome this proposal for a regulation on the measures that the union may take with regard to the combined effect of anti-dumping/countervailing duties and safeguard measures, given that in the course of its examination the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has concluded that the proposal in question is limited to a mere codification of existing texts, without making any substantial changes to its content.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal, since it merely codifies existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. again, i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the measures that the union may take concerning the combined effect of anti-dumping/countervailing duties and safeguard measures because, in accordance with the opinion of the legal services advisory group of 17 september 2014, it is a mere codification of existing texts, without any substantive changes.
in writing. - i abstained because i do not share the european commission's approach to the application of duties and safeguard measures.
in writing. despite the technical nature of the amendments voted on, i do not agree with the current eu commission policies on trade aspects, and therefore abstained.
in writing. — i voted in favour since i strongly consider that a real union should have common rules for imports.
in writing. i voted against. the proposal is merely a codification of existing texts without any substantial changes. i do not, however, share the political substance of the measure on the common import regime.
in writing. this proposal for a regulation codifies a number of principles already contained in the regulations on goods imported into the member states of the union.
in writing. the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts should be taken into account. as regards the regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 260/2009 of 26 february 2009 on common rules for imports, the advisory group agreed that in article 7 (4) of the proposed codified text the reference to 'article 235 et seq. of council regulation (eec) no 2913/92' should be reintroduced, as it currently appears in article 8 (4) of regulation (ec) no 260/2009, in place of the reference to 'article 79 et seq. of regulation (ec) no 450/2008 of the european parliament and of the council' in this proposal for codification. since the consultative group also unanimously concluded that the proposal is merely a codification of existing texts without any substantial changes, i voted in favour.
in writing. with reference to regulation (ec) no 260/2009, i particularly appreciate the principle of freedom of import of products originating in third countries, without prejudice to any safeguard measures or any products subject to a specific import regime. as the resolution merely codifies the 2009 regulation without making any substantial changes, i voted in favour of the new text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the common system of import duties. this scheme was created to protect the single market from damage to the production system resulting from significant disruptions in trade flows, such as, for example, sudden and substantial import flows which do not allow european producers to reorganise production to counteract their impact. in the light of the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an 'accelerated working method' for the purpose of official codification of legislative texts, the consultative group consisting of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission met on 10 july 2014 to examine the proposal for a regulation submitted by the commission and approved it, having verified that the proposal is limited to a mere codification of existing texts without any substantial changes. for these reasons i have decided to abide by the position of the advisory group.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for imports. any proposal for such codification is examined in advance by the legal services of the commission, the council and parliament. the conclusions of this evaluation are then sent to the legal affairs committee for validation and finally voted on in plenary for final approval by parliament.
in writing. regulation (ec) no 260/2009 deals with the common import arrangements. i will not support the regulation because the commercial aspects proposed and adopted are in opposition to the policies of the european commission.
in writing. - i support this report as the objective of this proposal is to start the codification of council regulation (ec) no 260/2009 of 19 october 2009 establishing a common system of import rules. the regulation introduces the principle of freedom to import products originating in third countries, without prejudice to any safeguard measures. it applies to imports of products originating in third countries, with the exception of textile products and products originating in certain third countries listed in council regulation (ec) no 625/2009.
in writing. in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation on common rules for imports. on the basis of its examination of the proposal, the advisory group has therefore unanimously concluded that the proposal is limited to a mere codification of the existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. the objective of this proposal is to initiate the codification of council regulation (ec) no 260/2009 of 19 october 2009 on the establishment of common rules for imports. the regulation introduces the principle of freedom of importation of originating products from third countries. as the rapporteur, mr duda, has just confirmed in the consultative group of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal for a regulation is merely a codification of existing texts without any substantial changes to them, i have decided to welcome it. the codification of provisions which have been frequently amended over time is necessary if european legislation is to be seen as fully adhering to the principles of clarity and transparency.
in writing. we welcome this proposal for a regulation on the common rules for imports, given that the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has concluded that the proposal in question is merely a codification of existing texts without any substantial changes to its content.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal, since it merely codifies existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. following the opinion of the legal services consultative group of 17 september 2014, i considered that i would give my vote in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for imports, as it is a simple codification of the existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. - i have chosen to abstain because my views on trade with third countries are in opposition to the current policies of the european commission.
in writing. despite the technical nature of the amendments voted on to the common import regime, i do not find the current policies of the eu commission to be acceptable, and therefore i abstained.
in writing. — i voted yes because of the importance of common rules on imports if we want to complete the common market.
in writing. reference is made to regulation (ec) no 1061/2009 on the common system of export refunds. in this case, the measure provides for a mere codification of existing texts, but the political substance of the measure is not acceptable. i abstained.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal for a regulation is to codify the provisions of regulation (ec) no 1061/2009 without any formal or substantive changes to the existing texts.
in writing. having regard to the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts and having examined the regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 1061/2009 of 19 october 2009 establishing common rules for exports, the consultative group has unanimously concluded that the proposal is limited to a mere codification of existing texts without any substantive changes. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i strongly support the principle of freedom of export, whereby exports from the european union to third countries are not subject to quantitative restrictions. the common regime applicable to them was regulated by regulation (ec) no 1061/2009 and is a matter of enormous importance for the promotion of our production, in particular with regard to 'made in italy'. i therefore voted in favour of the common export regime, as the resolution merely codifies the 2009 regulation without making any substantial changes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for exports. indeed, the interests of the eu may require the adoption of appropriate measures to prevent, remedy or fulfil international commitments entered into by the eu or its member states, especially as regards trade in commodities, in the event of a crisis situation due to a shortage of essential products. since the proposed regulation does not prevent eu countries from adopting or applying quantitative restrictions on exports, provided that they are justified on specific grounds, and since the proposal for the regulation itself was approved by the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, in that it merely codifies existing texts without any substantial changes, i considered that i would agree with the position of the consultative working party.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for exports. these reports concern proposals for the codification of eu law. it is a technical procedure provided for in article 103 of the regulation, which is intended to verify that the proposal for codification is in fact merely a codification without any substantial changes.
in writing. regulation (ec) no 1061/2009 deals with the common export regime. i will not support the regulation because the commercial aspects proposed and adopted are in opposition to the policies of the european commission.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report, which aims to start the codification of council regulation (ec) no 1061/2009 of 19 october 2009 establishing a common system of export refunds. the regulation introduces the principle that exports to third countries are not subject to any quantitative restrictions, subject to the derogations provided for in this regulation and to the measures which member states may adopt in accordance with the treaty. as i have already said in other votes on the agenda, i believe it is essential to simplify the legislation and to codify the provisions which have been frequently amended in order to operate with clear and transparent legislation.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal is to initiate the codification of council regulation (ec) no 1061/2009 of 19 october 2009 establishing a common system of export refunds. the regulation introduces the principle that exports to third countries must not be subject to any quantitative restrictions, save for exceptions. since the rapporteur's proposal is merely a codification of existing texts without any substantial changes to them, i thought it appropriate to support it by voting in favour.
in writing. we welcome this proposal for a regulation on common rules for exports, given that the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has concluded that the proposal in question is merely a codification of existing texts without any substantial changes to its content.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal, since it merely codifies existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for exports is also a mere codification of existing texts, without any substantive changes, and from this, also with reference to the opinion of 18 september 2014 of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the commission and the council, my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i abstained because i do not agree with the european commission's trade policies.
in writing. the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction provides for cooperation between signatory states to return a child or young person under 16 who has been arbitrarily 'abducted' from a parent to the family residence pending a court ruling, unless such return would constitute a serious danger to the child's safety. i believe it is of fundamental importance for the protection of our children that this convention is ratified and respected by more and more states. i therefore intend to vote in favour of gabon's accession to the union as one of the new signatory countries.
in writing. — i voted yes because it is fundamental to have gabon’s adhesion to this convention in order to protect children in africa.
in writing. i voted in favour. the hague convention is a positive one and the protection of minors must be extended as far as possible to other states which wish to become parties to it.
in writing. some states exploit the lack of cooperation between national authorities to obtain custody of children when there is a pending case between two spouses from different nations. accession to the hague convention establishes the competent court in the state where the child is resident, limiting the possibility of disputes over jurisdiction and thus bringing about a more rapid procedure. that is why we are voting in favour.
in writing. the hague convention is a key instrument for ensuring the return of children who have been unlawfully removed or retained abroad by a parent and for ensuring that custody and visitation rights are respected in all states. my country, italy, was the only one to support, even before the court intervened, the exclusive competence of the union in this area, requiring full regulatory and operational coordination between states, instead of approaches aimed at protecting the parent, its own citizen, even at the expense of the child's interest and the rights of citizens of other countries. i believe that for the convention to be properly applied, the states will have to meet certain requirements: efficient central authorities which can really serve as a reference for administrative cooperation; rules which prevent discriminatory practices; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's acquis in this area. in view of this, i welcome gabon's accession and have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a major instrument which has been ratified by all the member states of the european union. it effectively enables the contracting states to cooperate in solving cases of international child abduction. the problem is manifest in separating couples where the spouses are of different nationalities, because there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between states. in the various states there are legal systems which tend to favour certain categories of persons on the basis of nationality, leaving the right of surety to be interpreted in a dubious way. to resolve such situations at the international level, the convention puts the child at the centre of the problem by stipulating that the court of jurisdiction is the court where the child resides. in view of all this, gabon's accession to the convention is to be welcomed, also in view of the favourable opinion of the rapporteur who fully supports the measure. the eu will thus protect minors with links to the gabonese community against abduction. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of gabon's accession to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 because it is an instrument of enormous importance, already ratified by all the member states of the european union. since the convention introduces a system allowing contracting states to cooperate in resolving cases of international child abduction, gabon's accession to the convention is to be welcomed as many citizens of the european union are from gabon. the children with links to the gabonese community will thus be protected against abduction.
in writing. i voted in favour of the council decision on the declaration by the member states of acceptance of gabon's accession to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. in an international context where the mobility of families across national borders is increasing, the phenomenon of child abduction is particularly important in the event of a crisis between couples. protecting children from wrongful removal or non-return is a global issue as well as a core element of the eu programme. article 24 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union states that children have the right to protection and that their interests "shall be considered as paramount". i therefore support the accession of the gabonese republic, since only through international cooperation is it possible to resolve the issues relating to the custody of minors and to ensure the immediate return of the abducted child. children with links to the gabonese community can thus be better protected from any danger of abduction.
in writing. under the convention, the vote is to decide whether to accept the accession of the member states, in the interest of the european union, to gabon's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction has so far been ratified by 86 countries, including all eu member states. the objective of the convention is to restore the status quo through the immediate return of illegally transferred or detained children through a system of cooperation between the authorities designated by the contracting parties. the vote in favour is an obligation to guarantee the rights of all minors.
in writing. i voted in favour of gabon's accession to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction because this will give children with links to the gabonese community greater protection against this phenomenon. the convention allows for cooperation between the contracting states in order to find a solution to cases of international child abduction. this problem arises when spouses from different states, following their separation, take advantage of the lack of cooperation between the states concerned to obtain custody of their children. the aim of this convention is to settle such situations at international level by providing that the competent court and the applicable law shall be those of the state of residence of the child.
in writing. i welcome this proposal from the council to accept gabon's accession to the 1980 hague convention. the issue of the protection of the rights of children is of central importance and it seems therefore very positive that an increasing number of states are included, especially considering that there are a great many people on european soil from countries which are now asking for accession, which will facilitate the resolution of cases of abduction between a member state and these third countries. however, while it is good that all the states of the european union have acceded to the convention, i cannot help but notice that the concept of the 'best interests of the child' is often interpreted in an instrumental way. i refer, for example, to the case of germany, whose jugendamt, the office for children, in effect exchanges the welfare of the child for the welfare of the german child, depriving the non-german parent and the child himself of a number of fundamental rights, including some of those which form the basis of the hague convention. unfortunately, the problem is not confined to germany alone, and europe is powerless to see these abuses, since it has no power to intervene in the family law of individual member states. i therefore believe that harmonization of legislation in this area is urgent.
in writing. i am pleased that gabon is acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction and that is why i voted in favour of the report. the convention provides effective means for resolving disputes arising from international child abduction following separation or divorce, by providing that the competent court and the applicable law shall be that of the state of residence of the child.
in writing. i welcome the accession of gabon to the hague convention.
in writing. - i declare my vote in favour and my full support for gabon's accession to the hague convention of 25 october 1980, so that children with links to the gabonese community can also benefit from eu protection measures in the event of separation or dispute between their parents. the convention is in fact a very effective instrument for safeguarding children, since it brings the rights of children applicable in their country of residence to the centre of the conflicts of couples in crisis of different nationalities, overcoming the temptation to give preferential treatment to the parents' countries of origin and the dramatic risk of international child abduction. europe, the guardian of human rights, should extend the range of measures to protect children in all countries that so request, thus preventing unfair national legal favouritism and the misguided parental management of the fragility of children.
in writing. i voted in favour of gabon's accession, as well as that of other countries, to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction in order to widen as much as possible cooperation between states and to guarantee maximum protection for children who are victims of conflicts between parents. too often the trauma of separation is compounded by the trauma of being taken away and alienated from one of the parents.
in writing. international child abductions following separation or divorce are unfortunately a regular occurrence. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a major instrument, ratified by all the member states of the european union. international cooperation is essential for the settlement of these disputes. that is why i support this resolution in its entirety. the accession of gabon to the convention and consequently the effective entry into force of the convention in cases concerning the european union and gabon is to be welcomed. it is our moral and political duty to ensure that gabonese children are protected at european level.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of mrs hautala's report because it will ensure that children with links to the gabonese community are adequately protected against international abductions. the protection of fundamental human rights, especially when we are talking about vulnerable sections of the population, such as children, is of paramount importance and must be the focus of our political efforts. in this regard, the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction of 25 october 1980 is a key instrument in the field of international child abduction.
in writing. favourable to the report on the proposal for a council decision on the accession of gabon to the 1980 hague convention on the international abduction of children. the convention is intended to introduce a system enabling contracting states to cooperate in finding solutions to cases of international child abduction. the convention provides for a system to ensure the immediate return of the child.
in writing. the hague convention is intended to help resolve complex situations of international child abduction. given that a large proportion of community citizens are of gabonese origin, i welcome the accession of that country to the convention. it will help ensure that children with links to the gabonese community are adequately protected in the event of international abductions.
in writing. we believe that the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important instrument, ratified by all eu member states, as it introduces a system which allows contracting states to cooperate in solving cases of international child abduction. the aim is to avoid uncertainties or dangerous legal gaps. the competent court and the applicable law are those of the state in which the child is resident. however, while the european union has exclusive external competence in this area (as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13), i.e. individual member states no longer have the possibility of acting individually by reference to their own legal systems, the problem remains that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations. to overcome this legal difficulty, the council decided that it would be for each member state to accept, each in respect of its own territory, the accession of new states to the convention. we therefore welcome albania's accession to the above convention, so as to ensure that children with links to the gabonese community can find protection against abduction at eu level.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important instrument. the convention establishes a system that allows contracting states to cooperate in resolving cases of international child abduction. in cases where spouses are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between the states concerned in order to obtain custody of the children, and there is often a tendency in the legal systems of individual states to favour one another on the basis of nationality. the aim of the convention is to address these situations at international level, and many citizens of the european union are of gabonese origin and minors with links to the gabonese community will thus find protection against abduction. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. the 1980 hague convention is a very important instrument because it allows the contracting states to cooperate in order to find a solution in cases of international child abduction. the european union has exclusive external competence in this area, which means that the member states cannot act on their own. however, the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations and for this reason the member states of the union must accept, each for its own territory, that third countries, in this case gabon, accede to the convention, so that the convention can be fully applied in cases between the eu and a third country. i therefore welcome the fact that gabon is joining the convention because, thanks to this accession, the children of the gabonese people will be able to find greater protection against the abductions of which they may be victims.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because it is an important instrument for the protection of the rights of children which is being strengthened and extended.
in writing. with mrs hautala's report we voted in favour of a very important text for the protection of children, who are the weakest members of our society. it is important to ensure that they are protected as well as possible and with gabon's accession to the 1980 hague convention we are moving in that direction.
thank you, sir. i am sorry to have to give you the floor, but it appears that you have asked for it.
in writing. the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction provides for cooperation between signatory states to return a child or young person under 16 who has been arbitrarily 'abducted' from a parent to the family residence pending a court ruling, unless such return would constitute a serious danger to the child's safety. i believe it is of fundamental importance for the protection of our children that this convention is ratified and respected by more and more states. i therefore voted in favour of andorra's accession as one of the new signatory countries.
in writing. — i voted yes because it is fundamental to have andorra’s adhesion to this convention, in order to protect children in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour. the hague convention is a positive one and the protection of minors must be extended as far as possible to other states which wish to become parties to it.
in writing. some states exploit the lack of cooperation between national authorities to obtain custody of children when there is a pending case between two spouses from different nations. accession to the hague convention establishes the competent court in the state where the child is resident, limiting the possibility of disputes over jurisdiction and thus bringing about a more rapid procedure. that is why we are voting in favour.
in writing. the hague convention is a key instrument for ensuring the return of children who have been unlawfully removed or retained abroad by a parent and for ensuring that custody and visitation rights are respected in all states. my country, italy, was the only one to support, even before the court intervened, the exclusive competence of the union in this area, requiring full regulatory and operational coordination between states, instead of approaches aimed at protecting the parent, its own citizen, even at the expense of the child's interest and the rights of citizens of other countries. i believe that for the convention to be properly applied, the states will have to meet certain requirements: efficient central authorities which can really serve as a reference for administrative cooperation; rules which prevent discriminatory practices; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's acquis in this area. i therefore welcome the accession of andorra and have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a major instrument which has been ratified by all the member states of the european union. it effectively enables the contracting states to cooperate in solving cases of international child abduction. the problem is manifest in separating couples where the spouses are of different nationalities, because there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between states. in the various states there are legal systems which tend to favour certain categories of persons on the basis of nationality, leaving the right of surety to be interpreted in a dubious way. to resolve such situations at the international level, the convention puts the child at the centre of the problem, stipulating that the court of jurisdiction is the court where the child resides. in view of all this, the accession of andorra to the convention is to be welcomed, also in view of the favourable opinion of the rapporteur who fully supports the measure. the eu will thus protect minors with links to the andorran community against abduction. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of andorra's accession to the hague convention of 25 october 1980. i particularly appreciate the convention's enhanced protection for minors, as it provides that the courts with jurisdiction and the laws to be applied are those of the state of residence of the child. among the accessions we have ratified during this plenary session, i particularly agree with the accession of andorra, because of the country's geographical location, surrounded by eu member states, and where it is therefore particularly important that legislation is as homogeneous as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the council decision on the declaration by the member states of acceptance of the accession of andorra to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. in an international context where the mobility of families across national borders is increasing, the phenomenon of child abduction is particularly important in the event of a crisis between couples. protecting children from wrongful removal or non-return is a global issue as well as a core element of the eu programme. article 24 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union states that children have the right to protection and that their interests 'shall be considered as paramount'. i therefore support the accession of the principality of andorra, because only through international cooperation is it possible to resolve the issues relating to the custody of minors and to ensure the immediate return of the abducted child. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to grant the aid to the beneficiaries of the aid.
in writing. the objective of the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is to restore the status quo through the immediate return of illegally transferred or detained children through a system of cooperation between the authorities designated by the contracting parties. the convention, which has been ratified by 86 countries, including all eu member states, aims to prevent the abduction of children. it is an important part of european policy to promote the rights of children. the eu is very active at international level in promoting accession and extending the application of the 1980 convention to as many third states as possible. today's vote will decide whether the eu accepts andorra's membership. i vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of andorra's accession to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction because this will give children with ties to the andorran community greater protection against this phenomenon. the convention allows for cooperation between the contracting states in order to find a solution to cases of international child abduction. this problem arises when spouses from different states, following their separation, take advantage of the lack of cooperation between the states concerned to obtain custody of their children. the aim of this convention is to settle such situations at international level by providing that the competent court and the applicable law shall be those of the state of residence of the child.
in writing. i welcome this proposal from the council to accept the accession of andorra to the 1980 hague convention. the issue of the protection of the rights of children is of central importance and it seems therefore very positive that an increasing number of states are being included, especially considering that there are a great many people on european soil from countries which are now asking for membership, which will facilitate the resolution of cases of abduction between a member state and these third countries. however, while it is good that all the states of the european union have acceded to the convention, i cannot help but notice that the concept of the 'best interests of the child' is often interpreted in an instrumental way. i refer, for example, to the case of germany, whose jugendamt, the office for children, in effect exchanges the welfare of the child for the welfare of the german child, depriving the non-german parent and the child himself of a number of fundamental rights, including some of those which form the basis of the hague convention. the problem is not, unfortunately, confined to germany alone, and europe is helplessly watching these abuses as it has no power to intervene in the family law of individual member states. i therefore believe that harmonization of legislation in this area is urgent.
in writing. i am pleased that andorra is a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction and that is why i voted in favour of the report. the convention provides effective means for resolving disputes arising from international child abduction following separation or divorce, by providing that the competent court and the applicable law shall be that of the state of residence of the child.
in writing. i welcome the accession of the state of andorra to the hague convention.
in writing. - i declare my vote in favour and my full support for andorra's accession to the hague convention of 25 october 1980, so that children with ties to the andorran community can also benefit from the eu's protection measures in the event of separation or dispute between their parents. the convention is in fact a very effective instrument for safeguarding children, since it brings the rights of children applicable in their country of residence back to the centre of the conflicts of couples in crisis of different nationalities, overcoming the temptation to give preferential treatment to the parents' countries of origin and the dramatic risk of international child abduction. europe, the guardian of human rights, should extend the range of measures to protect children in all countries that so request, thus preventing unfair national legal favouritism and the misguided parental management of the fragility of children. the measure is particularly important because it regulates the relationship with a country with which many european states have close ties and relations. we hope that these regulations will give rise to new and stronger rights for minors in europe.
in writing. international child abductions following separation or divorce are unfortunately a regular occurrence. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a major instrument, ratified by all the member states of the european union. international cooperation is essential for the settlement of these disputes. that is why i support this resolution in its entirety. the accession of andorra to the convention and consequently the effective entry into force of the convention in cases concerning the european union and andorra is to be welcomed. it is our moral and political duty to ensure that the minors in question are protected at eu level.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of mrs hautala's report because i am sure that it will help to ensure adequate protection against international abductions of children with ties to the andorran community. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 is a key instrument in enabling signatory states to cooperate in the field of international child abduction. the convention is intended to settle disputes at international level by providing that the competent court and the applicable law shall be those of the state of residence of the child. the convention also introduces a system to ensure the immediate return of the child who has been abducted.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the accession of andorra to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention introduces a system to ensure the immediate return of the abducted child.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 is a key instrument. it allows the signatory states to cooperate effectively in the field of international child abduction. the convention is intended to settle disputes at international level by providing that the competent court and the applicable law are those of the state of residence of the child. the convention also introduces a system to ensure the immediate return of the abducted child. in view of the fact that a high proportion of citizens of the union are from andorra, i welcome the accession of that state to the convention.
in writing. we believe that the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important instrument, ratified by all eu member states, as it introduces a system which allows contracting states to cooperate in solving cases of international child abduction. the aim is to avoid uncertainties or dangerous legal gaps. the competent court and the applicable law are those of the state in which the child is resident. however, while the european union has exclusive external competence in this area (as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13), i.e. individual member states no longer have the possibility of acting individually by referring to their own legal systems, the problem remains that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations. to overcome this legal difficulty, the council decided that it would be for each member state to accept, each in respect of its own territory, the accession of new states to the convention. we therefore welcome the accession of albania to the above convention, so as to ensure that children with ties to the andorran community can find protection against abduction at eu level.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important instrument. the convention establishes a system that allows contracting states to cooperate in resolving cases of international child abduction. where spouses are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between the states concerned in order to obtain custody of the children, and there is often a tendency in the legal systems of individual states to favour one another on the basis of nationality. the convention is intended to address these situations at international level and the many citizens of the european union who are originally from andorra and minors with ties to the andorran community will thus find protection against abductions. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. considering that many citizens of the european union are of european origin, i am very pleased that andorra is also joining the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this accession will allow greater protection for andorran children against the abductions to which they may be subjected.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe it is essential to promote the protection of the rights of children.
in writing. the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction provides for cooperation between signatory states to return a child or young person under 16 who has been arbitrarily 'abducted' from a parent to the family residence pending a court ruling, unless such return would constitute a serious danger to the child's safety. i believe it is of fundamental importance for the protection of our children that this convention is ratified and respected by more and more states. i therefore voted in favour of the accession of the seychelles among the new signatory countries.
in writing. — i voted yes because i consider it fundamental that this convention is applied in as many countries as possible, due to its importance.
in writing. i voted in favour. the hague convention is a positive one and the protection of minors must be extended as far as possible to other states which wish to become parties to it.
in writing. i voted today in favour of the report on the draft council decision on the declaration by the member states, in the interest of the european union, of acceptance of the accession of the seychelles to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention, to which more than 90 states have already acceded, including all eu countries, provides for the immediate return of a child if he or she is unlawfully removed from his or her habitual residence without the consent of the other parent, in violation of the right of custody. in today's vote, parliament decided to ask the eu member states to formally recognise the accession of the seychelles to the convention.
in writing. some states exploit the lack of cooperation between national authorities to obtain custody of children when there is a pending case between two spouses from different nations. accession to the hague convention establishes the competent court in the state where the child is resident, limiting the possibility of disputes over jurisdiction and thus bringing about a more rapid procedure. that is why we are voting in favour.
in writing. the hague convention is a key instrument for ensuring the return of children who have been unlawfully removed or retained abroad by a parent and for ensuring that custody and visitation rights are respected in all states. my country, italy, was the only one to support, even before the court intervened, the exclusive competence of the union in this area, requiring full regulatory and operational coordination between states, instead of approaches aimed at protecting the parent, its own citizen, even at the expense of the child's interest and the rights of citizens of other countries. i believe that for the convention to be properly applied, the states will have to meet certain requirements: efficient central authorities which can really serve as a reference for administrative cooperation; rules which prevent discriminatory practices; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's acquis in this area. i therefore welcome the accession of the seychelles and have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a major instrument which has been ratified by all the member states of the european union. it effectively enables the contracting states to cooperate in solving cases of international child abduction. the problem is manifest in separating couples where the spouses are of different nationalities, because there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between states. in the various states there are legal systems which tend to favour certain categories of persons on the basis of nationality, leaving the right of surety to be interpreted in a dubious way. to resolve such situations at the international level, the convention puts the child at the centre of the problem by stipulating that the court of jurisdiction is the court where the child resides. in view of all this, the accession of the seychelles to the convention is to be welcomed, also in view of the favourable opinion of the rapporteur who fully supports the measure. the commission has also proposed that the eu should provide a legal framework for the protection of minors with links to the seychelles community. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of seychelles' accession to the 1980 hague convention as i am in favour of the establishment of a permanent system of cooperation between contracting states on child custody security. i particularly welcome the increased protection for minors, since the convention stipulates that the courts and laws to be applied are those of the states in which the minors are resident. i voted in favour of the convention all the more so because it introduces a system which ensures the immediate return of the child who has been abducted. my vote is consistent with my view that the greatest possible number of states should accede to the convention in order to increase its effectiveness.
in writing. i voted in favour of the council decision on the declaration by the member states of acceptance of the accession of the seychelles to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. in an international context where the mobility of families across national borders is increasing, the phenomenon of child abduction is particularly important in the event of a crisis between couples. protecting children from wrongful removal or non-return is a global issue as well as a core element of the eu programme. article 24 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union states that children have the right to protection and that their interests 'shall be considered as paramount'. i therefore support the accession of the republic of seychelles, because only through international cooperation can the issues of child custody be resolved and the child abducted be returned immediately. children with ties to the seychelles community can thus be better protected from any danger of abduction.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the declaration by the member states, in the interest of the european union, of acceptance of the accession of the seychelles to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the aim of the convention is to provide effective tools for resolving such disputes between countries in an informal way.
in writing. i voted in favour of seychelles' accession to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction because this will give children with links to the seychelles community greater protection against this phenomenon. the convention allows for cooperation between the contracting states in order to find a solution to cases of international child abduction. this problem arises when spouses from different states, following their separation, take advantage of the lack of cooperation between the states concerned to obtain custody of their children. the aim of this convention is to settle such situations at international level by providing that the competent court and the applicable law shall be those of the state of residence of the child.
in writing. i welcome this proposal from the council to accept the accession of the seychelles to the 1980 hague convention. the issue of the protection of the rights of children is of central importance and it seems therefore very positive that an increasing number of states are being included, especially considering that there are a great many people on european soil from countries which are now asking for membership, which will facilitate the resolution of cases of abduction between a member state and these third countries. however, while it is good that all the states of the european union have acceded to the convention, i cannot help but notice that the concept of the 'best interests of the child' is often interpreted in an instrumental way. i refer, for example, to the case of germany, whose jugendamt, the office for children, in effect exchanges the welfare of the child for the welfare of the german child, depriving the non-german parent and the child himself of a number of fundamental rights, including some of those which form the basis of the hague convention. the problem is not, unfortunately, confined to germany alone, and europe is helplessly watching these abuses as it has no power to intervene in the family law of individual member states. i therefore believe that harmonization of legislation in this area is urgent.
in writing. i am pleased that seychelles is a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction and that is why i voted in favour of the report. the convention provides effective means for resolving disputes arising from international child abduction following separation or divorce, by providing that the competent court and the applicable law shall be that of the state of residence of the child.
in writing. i welcome the accession of the seychelles to the hague convention.
in writing. - i declare my vote in favour and my full support for the accession of the seychelles to the hague convention of 25 october 1980, so that children with links to the seychelles community may also benefit from the eu's protection measures in the event of separation or dispute between their parents. the convention is in fact a very effective instrument for safeguarding children, since it brings the rights of children applicable in their country of residence back to the centre of the conflicts of couples in crisis of different nationalities, overcoming the temptation to give preferential treatment to the parents' countries of origin and the dramatic risk of international child abduction. europe, the guardian of human rights, should extend the range of measures to protect children in all countries that so request, thus preventing unfair national legal favouritism and the misguided parental management of the fragility of children.
in writing. international child abductions following separation or divorce are unfortunately a regular occurrence. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a major instrument, ratified by all the member states of the european union. international cooperation is essential to resolve these disputes, and i therefore fully support this resolution. the accession of seychelles to the convention and consequently the effective entry into force of the convention in cases concerning the european union and this country is to be welcomed. it is our moral and political duty to ensure that the children concerned are protected at eu level.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of mrs hautala's report because it will ensure adequate protection against international abductions of children with links to the seychelles community. as i have said in the other reports adopted today, the hague convention of 25 october 1980 is a very important instrument for the protection of the rights of children and i am therefore in favour of the accession of a new state.
in writing. in favour of the report on the accession of the seychelles to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention is intended to provide that the competent court and the applicable law shall be those of the state in which the child is resident.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 provides the legal basis for the contracting states to resolve issues relating to international child abduction. i welcome the accession of seychelles to the convention, as i believe it will help to ensure adequate protection for minors with links to that community in the event of abduction.
in writing. we believe that the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important instrument, ratified by all eu member states, as it introduces a system which allows contracting states to cooperate in solving cases of international child abduction. the aim is to avoid uncertainties or dangerous legal gaps. the competent court and the applicable law are those of the state in which the child is resident. however, while the european union has exclusive external competence in this area (as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13), i.e. individual member states no longer have the possibility of acting individually by referring to their own legal systems, the problem remains that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations. to overcome this legal difficulty, the council decided that it would be for each member state to accept, each in respect of its own territory, the accession of new states to the convention. we therefore welcome the accession of albania to the above convention, so as to ensure that children from the seychelles can find protection against abduction at eu level.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important instrument. the convention establishes a system that allows contracting states to cooperate in resolving cases of international child abduction. where spouses are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between the states concerned in order to obtain custody of the children, and there is often a tendency in the legal systems of individual states to favour one another on the basis of nationality. the convention is intended to address these situations at international level and the many citizens of the european union who are originally from seychelles and minors with links to the community of persons from seychelles will thus find protection against abduction. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. i am naturally in favour of seychelles joining the hague convention and approving the proposal, so that minors in this country can enjoy protection at european level.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the accession of the seychelles to the 1980 hague convention because i am convinced that international cooperation on international child abduction is one of the actions we have a duty to take for the benefit of the youngest, who in the not too distant future will be the basis of our society.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe it is essential to promote the protection of the rights of children.
in writing. the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction provides for cooperation between signatory states to return a child or young person under 16 who has been arbitrarily 'abducted' from a parent to the family residence pending a court ruling, unless such return would constitute a serious danger to the child's safety. i believe it is of fundamental importance for the protection of our children that this convention be ratified and respected by more and more states. i therefore intend to vote in favour of the accession of the russian federation to the convention.
in writing. — i voted yes because it is fundamental to have russia’s adhesion to this convention, in order to protect children in russia.
in writing. i voted in favour. the hague convention is a positive one and the protection of minors must be extended as far as possible to other states which wish to become parties to it.
in writing. i voted today in favour of the report on the draft council decision on the declaration by the member states, in the interest of the european union, of acceptance of the accession of the russian federation to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention, to which more than 90 countries have already acceded, including all eu countries, provides for the immediate return of a child if he or she is unlawfully removed from his or her habitual residence without the consent of the other parent, in violation of the right of custody. the european parliament has voted today to ask the eu member states to formally recognise the accession of the russian federation to the convention. i hope that the gradual increase in accessions to the convention will help to resolve cases of child abduction more efficiently, including through improved international coordination on the civilian aspects of international child abduction.
in writing. some states exploit the lack of cooperation between national authorities to obtain custody of children when there is a pending case between two spouses from different nations. accession to the hague convention establishes the competent court in the state where the child is resident, limiting the possibility of disputes over jurisdiction and thus bringing about a more rapid procedure. that is why we are voting in favour.
in writing. the hague convention is a key instrument for ensuring the return of children who have been unlawfully removed or retained abroad by a parent and for ensuring that custody and visitation rights are respected in all states. my country, italy, was the only one to support, even before the court intervened, the exclusive competence of the union in this area, requiring full regulatory and operational coordination between states, instead of approaches aimed at protecting the parent, its own citizen, even at the expense of the child's interest and the rights of citizens of other countries. i believe that for the convention to be properly applied, the states will have to meet certain requirements: efficient central authorities which can really serve as a reference for administrative cooperation; rules which prevent discriminatory practices; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's acquis in this area. in view of this, i welcome the accession of the russian federation and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a major instrument which has been ratified by all the member states of the european union. it effectively enables the contracting states to cooperate in solving cases of international child abduction. the problem is manifest in separating couples where the spouses are of different nationalities, because there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between states. in the various states there are legal systems which tend to favour certain categories of persons on the basis of nationality, leaving the right of surety to be interpreted in a dubious way. to resolve such situations at the international level, the convention puts the child at the centre of the problem by stipulating that the court of jurisdiction is the court where the child resides. in view of all this, the accession of the russian federation to the convention is to be welcomed, also in view of the favourable opinion of the rapporteur who fully supports the measure. the eu will thus protect minors with links to the russian federation community against abduction. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the accession of the russian federation to the important hague convention of 25 october 1980. this is an important and sensitive issue and i agree with the establishment of a permanent system of cooperation between the contracting states on the security of child custody. i welcome the accession of the russian federation to the convention, as the eu has close economic ties with this country. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to grant the right to vote to minors who are not citizens of the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the council decision on the declaration by the member states of acceptance of the accession of the russian federation to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. in an international context where the mobility of families across national borders is increasing, the phenomenon of child abduction is particularly important in the event of a crisis between couples. protecting children from wrongful removal or non-return is a global issue as well as a core element of the eu programme. article 24 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union states that children have the right to protection and that their interests 'shall be considered as paramount'. i therefore support russia's accession, because only through international cooperation can the issues of child custody be resolved and the child abducted be returned immediately. children with ties to the russian community can thus be better protected from any danger of abduction.
in writing. this report on the draft council decision concerns the declaration by the member states, in the interest of the european union, of acceptance of the accession of the russian federation to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. when one parent takes their child across national borders, the other parent finds themselves facing a very complex and endlessly winding legal battle. to ensure the immediate return of these children, more than 90 states, including all eu countries, have joined the 1980 hague convention. today, meps are debating the accession of eight new countries to the convention. the vote on this report will be favourable.
in writing. i voted in favour of the accession of the russian federation to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction because this will give children with ties to the community in the russian federation greater protection against this phenomenon. the convention allows for cooperation between the contracting states in order to find a solution to cases of international child abduction. this problem arises when spouses from different states, following their separation, take advantage of the lack of cooperation between the states concerned to obtain custody of their children. the aim of this convention is to settle such situations at international level by providing that the competent court and the applicable law shall be those of the state of residence of the child.
in writing. i welcome this proposal from the council to accept the accession of the russian federation to the 1980 hague convention. the issue of the protection of the rights of children is of central importance and it seems therefore very positive that an increasing number of states are being included, especially considering that there are a great many people on european soil from countries which are now asking for membership, which will facilitate the resolution of cases of abduction between a member state and these third countries. however, while it is good that all the states of the european union have acceded to the convention, i cannot help but notice that the concept of the 'best interests of the child' is often interpreted in an instrumental way. i refer, for example, to the case of germany, whose jugendamt, the office for children, in effect exchanges the welfare of the child for the welfare of the german child, depriving the non-german parent and the child himself of a number of fundamental rights, including some of those which form the basis of the hague convention. the problem is not, unfortunately, confined to germany alone, and europe is helplessly watching these abuses as it has no power to intervene in the family law of individual member states. i therefore believe that harmonization of legislation in this area is urgent.
in writing. i am pleased that the russian federation is acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction and that is why i voted in favour of the report. the convention provides effective means for resolving disputes arising from international child abduction following separation or divorce, by providing that the competent court and the applicable law shall be that of the state of residence of the child.
in writing. i welcome the accession of the russian federation to the hague convention.
in writing. - i declare my vote in favour and my full support for armenia's accession to the hague convention of 25 october 1980, so that children with ties to the armenian community can also benefit from the eu's protection measures in the event of separation or dispute between their parents. the convention is in fact a very effective instrument for safeguarding children, since it brings the rights of children applicable in their country of residence back to the centre of the conflicts of couples in crisis of different nationalities, overcoming the temptation to give preferential treatment to the parents' countries of origin and the dramatic risk of international child abduction. europe, the guardian of human rights, should extend the range of measures to protect children in all countries that so request, thus preventing unfair national legal favouritism and the misguided parental management of the fragility of children.
in writing. international child abductions following separation or divorce are unfortunately a regular occurrence. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a major instrument, ratified by all the member states of the european union. international cooperation is essential for the settlement of these disputes. that is why i support this resolution in its entirety. the accession of the russian federation to the convention and consequently the effective entry into force of the convention in cases concerning the european union and that country is to be welcomed. it is our moral and political duty to ensure that the minors in question are protected at eu level.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of mrs hautala's report because, in view of the close economic ties between the eu and the russian federation, it will ensure that children in the territory of the russian federation are better protected at eu level. preventing child abduction is one of the main objectives of eu policy on children's rights. the convention also introduced a system to ensure the immediate return of the abducted child.
in writing. in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the accession of the russian federation to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the accession of the russian federation to the convention is welcome, especially as the eu has close economic ties with the country.
in writing. preventing child abduction is one of the main objectives of eu policy in the field of children's rights. the primary purpose of the convention is to settle legal disputes on the matter, by ruling that the competent court and the applicable law in the matter is that of the state of residence of the child. the convention also introduced a system to ensure the immediate return of the abducted child. in view of the above, and in the light of the close economic ties between the eu and the russian federation, i am voting in favour of the accession of the russian federation to the convention, as it will ensure that children with links to the russian federation are better protected at eu level.
in writing. we believe that the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important instrument, ratified by all eu member states, as it introduces a system which allows contracting states to cooperate in solving cases of international child abduction. the aim is to avoid uncertainties or dangerous legal gaps. the competent court and the applicable law are those of the state in which the child is resident. however, while the european union has exclusive external competence in this area (as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13), i.e. individual member states no longer have the possibility of acting individually by referring to their own legal systems, the problem remains that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations. to overcome this legal difficulty, the council decided that it would be for each member state to accept, each in respect of its own territory, the accession of new states to the convention. we therefore welcome the accession of albania to the abovementioned convention, so as to ensure that children from the russian federation can find protection against abduction at eu level.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important instrument. the convention establishes a system that allows contracting states to cooperate in resolving cases of international child abduction. where spouses are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between the states concerned in order to obtain custody of the children, and there is often a tendency in the legal systems of individual states to favour one another on the basis of nationality. the convention is intended to resolve such situations at international level. the eu has close economic ties with the country and minors with ties to the community of persons from the russian federation will thus find protection against abduction. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. i am extremely pleased that the russian federation has decided to accede to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. as we all know, the eu has close economic and social ties with the russian federation, and there are many european citizens who have married russian citizens. in the case of divorce between nationals of different countries, it is customary for the competent courts of the states concerned to award custody of the children of the couple to the parent who is a national of the state where the child is located, thus facilitating international child abduction. the hague convention, on the other hand, avoids this danger by establishing cooperation between the states of origin of divorcing spouses in order to establish the legal custody of the couple's children.
in writing. the accession of the russian federation to the 1980 hague convention is a socially important event for us europeans. more and more of our fellow citizens are from this country, and i therefore think it is very important that we voted in favour of this report, because the good and the peace of mind of our fellow citizens must take precedence over all the policies we can implement.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe it is essential to promote the protection of the rights of children.
in writing. the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction provides for cooperation between signatory states to return a child or young person under 16 who has been arbitrarily 'abducted' from a parent to the family residence pending a court ruling, unless such return would constitute a serious danger to the child's safety. i believe it is of fundamental importance for the protection of our children that this convention be ratified and respected by more and more states. i therefore voted in favour of albania's accession to the union as one of the new signatory countries.
in writing. — i voted yes because it is fundamental to have albania’s adhesion to this convention, in order to protect children in albania.
in writing. i voted in favour. the hague convention is a positive one and the protection of minors must be extended as far as possible to other states which wish to become parties to it.
in writing. some states exploit the lack of cooperation between national authorities to obtain custody of children when there is a pending case between two spouses from different nations. accession to the hague convention establishes the competent court in the state where the child is resident, limiting the possibility of disputes over jurisdiction and thus bringing about a more rapid procedure. that is why we are voting in favour.
in writing. the hague convention is a key instrument for ensuring the return of children who have been unlawfully removed or retained abroad by a parent and for ensuring that custody and visitation rights are respected in all states. my country, italy, was the only one to support, even before the court intervened, the exclusive competence of the union in this area, requiring full regulatory and operational coordination between states, instead of approaches aimed at protecting the parent, its own citizen, even at the expense of the child's interest and the rights of citizens of other countries. i believe that for the convention to be properly applied, the states will have to meet certain requirements: efficient central authorities which can really serve as a reference for administrative cooperation; rules which prevent discriminatory practices; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's acquis in this area. in view of this, i welcome albania's accession and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a major instrument which has been ratified by all the member states of the european union. it effectively enables the contracting states to cooperate in solving cases of international child abduction. the problem is manifest in separating couples where the spouses are of different nationalities, because there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between states. in the various states there are legal systems which tend to favour certain categories of persons on the basis of nationality, leaving the right of surety to be interpreted in a dubious way. to resolve such situations at the international level, the convention puts the child at the centre of the problem by stipulating that the court of jurisdiction is the court where the child resides. in view of all this, the accession of the state of albania to the convention is to be welcomed, also in view of the favourable opinion of the rapporteur who fully supports the measure. the eu will also provide protection against abduction for children with links to the albanian community. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of albania's accession to the important hague convention of 25 october 1980. given albania's geographical proximity and strong cultural links with my country, i am delighted with this accession. in fact, since the 1990s, a large number of albanian citizens have settled in italy, and now the minors of this state will find better protection against abduction.
in writing. i voted in favour of the council decision on the declaration by the member states of acceptance of albania's accession to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. in an international context where the mobility of families across national borders is increasing, the phenomenon of child abduction is particularly important in the event of a crisis between couples. protecting children from wrongful removal or non-return is a global issue as well as a core element of the eu programme. article 24 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union states that children have the right to protection and that their interests 'shall be considered as paramount'. i therefore support the accession of the republic of albania, because only through international cooperation can the issues of child custody be resolved and the abducted child be returned immediately. children with ties to the albanian community can thus be better protected from any danger of abduction.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the convention provides effective instruments for resolving such disputes between countries. it should be added that there is no european harmonisation of family law. this would enable states to deal more effectively with these cases of child abduction. i am voting in favour of albania's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction.
in writing. i voted in favour of albania's accession to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction because this will give children with links to the albanian community greater protection against this phenomenon. the convention allows for cooperation between the contracting states in order to find a solution to cases of international child abduction. this problem arises when spouses from different states, following their separation, take advantage of the lack of cooperation between the states concerned to obtain custody of their children. the aim of this convention is to settle such situations at international level by providing that the competent court and the applicable law shall be those of the state of residence of the child.
in writing. i welcome this proposal from the council to accept albania's accession to the 1980 hague convention. the issue of the protection of the rights of children is of central importance and it seems therefore very positive that an increasing number of states are being included, especially considering that there are a great many people on european soil from countries which are now asking for membership, which will facilitate the resolution of cases of abduction between a member state and these third countries. however, while it is good that all the states of the european union have acceded to the convention, i cannot help but notice that the concept of the 'best interests of the child' is often interpreted in an instrumental way. i refer, for example, to the case of germany, whose jugendamt, the office for children, in effect exchanges the welfare of the child for the welfare of the german child, depriving the non-german parent and the child himself of a number of fundamental rights, including some of those which form the basis of the hague convention. the problem is not, unfortunately, confined to germany alone, and europe is helplessly watching these abuses as it has no power to intervene in the family law of individual member states. i therefore believe that harmonization of legislation in this area is urgent.
in writing. i am pleased that albania is acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction and that is why i voted in favour of the report. the convention provides effective means for resolving disputes arising from international child abduction following separation or divorce, by providing that the competent court and the applicable law shall be that of the state of residence of the child.
in writing. i welcome the accession of albania to the hague convention.
in writing. - i declare my vote in favour and my full support for albania's accession to the hague convention of 25 october 1980, so that children with ties to the albanian community can also benefit from the eu's protection measures in the event of separation or dispute between their parents. the convention is in fact a very effective instrument for safeguarding children, since it brings the rights of children applicable in their country of residence to the centre of the conflicts of couples in crisis of different nationalities, overcoming the temptation to give preferential treatment to the parents' countries of origin and the dramatic risk of international child abduction. europe, the guardian of human rights, should extend the range of measures to protect children in all countries that so request, thus preventing unfair national legal favouritism and the misguided parental management of the fragility of children. the measure is particularly important because it regulates the relationship with a country with which many european states have close ties and relations. we hope that these regulations will give rise to new and stronger rights for minors in europe.
in writing. i fully support albania's accession to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, firstly because many european citizens are of albanian origin and have close ties with albania and secondly because it is another important area of cooperation with a country that is increasingly closer to europe.
in writing. international child abductions following separation or divorce are unfortunately a regular occurrence. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a major instrument, ratified by all the member states of the european union. international cooperation is essential for the settlement of these disputes. that is why i support this resolution in its entirety. the accession of albania to the convention and consequently the effective entry into force of the convention in cases concerning the european union and albania is to be welcomed. it is our moral and political duty to ensure that albanian minors are protected at eu level.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of mrs hautala's report because i believe it will help to ensure adequate protection of children against international abduction. given the high percentage of albanian citizens residing in the territory of the union, i welcome albania's accession to the hague convention. the 1980 hague convention is a key instrument in introducing a system which allows contracting states to cooperate in the field of international child abduction and thus to protect children more effectively.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the accession of albania to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of abduction. the main problem in these cases is the tendency of the legal systems of individual states to favour certain categories of persons on the basis of nationality. the convention is intended to address such situations at the international level.
in writing. the 1980 hague convention introduced a system allowing contracting states to cooperate on international child abduction. its main purpose is to settle international disputes in this specific field by means of provisions determining the competent court and the applicable law. in the light of albania's future accession to the eu and given that a high proportion of citizens of the union are of albanian origin, i welcome albania's accession to the convention.
in writing. we believe that the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important instrument, ratified by all eu member states, as it introduces a system which allows contracting states to cooperate in solving cases of international child abduction. the aim is to avoid uncertainties or dangerous legal gaps. the competent court and the applicable law are those of the state in which the child is resident. however, while the european union has exclusive external competence in this area (as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13), i.e. individual member states no longer have the possibility of acting individually by referring to their own legal systems, the problem remains that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations. to overcome this legal difficulty, the council decided that it would be for each member state to accept, each in respect of its own territory, the accession of new states to the convention. we therefore welcome the accession of albania to the above convention, so as to ensure that children with links to the albanian community can find protection against abduction at eu level.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important instrument. the convention establishes a system that allows contracting states to cooperate in resolving cases of international child abduction. where spouses are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between the states concerned in order to obtain custody of the children, and there is often a tendency in the legal systems of individual states to favour one another on the basis of nationality. the intention of the convention is to address these situations at international level and the many citizens of the european union are originally from albania and the minors with ties to the albanian community will thus find protection against abductions. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. in the case of albania, given its close relations and geographical proximity to the european union, and italy in particular, i am also pleased that the accession of that state to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction has been accepted. with this accession, in the event of a divorce between a couple, the competent court and the applicable law are those of the state of residence of the child. in addition, if the child is not currently in the territory of residence, the convention introduces a system ensuring the immediate return of the abducted child.
in writing. i welcome mrs hautala's report because it is our duty to our citizens to cooperate with other countries, in this particular case albania, on the abduction of children. i believe that policies to help children are fundamental to our society and that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe it is essential to promote the protection of the rights of children.
in writing. the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction provides for cooperation between signatory states to return a child or young person under 16 who has been arbitrarily 'abducted' from a parent to the family residence pending a court ruling, unless such return would constitute a serious danger to the child's safety. i believe it is of fundamental importance for the protection of our children that this convention is ratified and respected by more and more states. i therefore intend to vote in favour of singapore's accession as one of the new signatories.
in writing. — i voted yes because it is fundamental to have singapore’s adhesion to this convention, in order to protect children in singapore.
in writing. i voted in favour. the hague convention is a positive one and the protection of minors must be extended as far as possible to other states which wish to become parties to it.
in writing. some states exploit the lack of cooperation between national authorities to obtain custody of children when there is a pending case between two spouses from different nations. accession to the hague convention establishes the competent court in the state where the child is resident, limiting the possibility of disputes over jurisdiction and thus bringing about a more rapid procedure. that is why we are voting in favour.
in writing. the hague convention is a key instrument for ensuring the return of children who have been unlawfully removed or retained abroad by a parent and for ensuring that custody and visitation rights are respected in all states. my country, italy, was the only one to support, even before the court intervened, the exclusive competence of the union in this area, requiring full regulatory and operational coordination between states, instead of approaches aimed at protecting the parent, its own citizen, even at the expense of the child's interest and the rights of citizens of other countries. i believe that for the convention to be properly applied, the states will have to meet certain requirements: efficient central authorities which can really serve as a reference for administrative cooperation; rules which prevent discriminatory practices; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's acquis in this area. in view of this, i am positive about singapore's accession and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a major instrument which has been ratified by all the member states of the european union. it effectively enables the contracting states to cooperate in solving cases of international child abduction. the problem is manifest in separating couples where the spouses are of different nationalities, because there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between states. in the various states there are legal systems which tend to favour certain categories of persons on the basis of nationality, leaving the right of surety to be interpreted in a dubious way. to resolve such situations at the international level, the convention puts the child at the centre of the problem by stipulating that the court of jurisdiction is the court where the child resides. in view of all this, the accession of the state of singapore to the convention is to be welcomed, also in view of the favourable opinion of the rapporteur who fully supports the measure. the eu will also provide protection against abduction for children with links to the singaporean community. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of singapore's accession to the hague convention of 25 october 1980. the reason for this is easily understood by the importance and the sensitivity of the subject under discussion, namely the protection of children against international kidnapping. i voted in favour of the convention all the more so because it introduces a system which ensures the immediate return of the child who has been abducted. my vote is consistent with the principle that the more states that join, the greater the effectiveness of the convention itself.
in writing. i voted in favour of the council decision on the declaration by the member states of acceptance of the accession of singapore to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. in an international context where the mobility of families across national borders is increasing, the phenomenon of child abduction is particularly important in the event of a crisis between couples. protecting children from wrongful removal or non-return is a global issue as well as a core element of the eu programme. article 24 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union states that children have the right to protection and that their interests 'shall be considered as paramount'. i therefore support the accession of the republic of singapore, because only through international cooperation can the issues of child custody be resolved and the child abducted be returned immediately. children with ties to the singaporean community can thus be better protected from the dangers of abduction.
in writing. children's interests often take a backseat when parents are at odds with each other or disagree about where and with whom their children should be raised. in such cases we must set clear guidelines and stress the force of the law. the report on the draft council decision on the declaration by the member states, in the interest of the european union, of acceptance of the accession of singapore to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an act to be voted in favour of for the protection of children.
in writing. i voted in favour of singapore joining the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction because this will give children with links to the singaporean community greater protection against this phenomenon. the convention allows for cooperation between the contracting states in order to find a solution to cases of international child abduction. this problem arises when spouses from different states, following their separation, take advantage of the lack of cooperation between the states concerned to obtain custody of their children. the aim of this convention is to settle such situations at international level by providing that the competent court and the applicable law shall be those of the state of residence of the child.
in writing. i welcome this proposal from the council to accept singapore's accession to the 1980 hague convention. the issue of the protection of the rights of children is of central importance and it seems therefore very positive that an increasing number of states are included, especially considering that there are a great many people on european soil from countries which are now asking for accession, which will facilitate the resolution of cases of abduction between a member state and these third countries. however, while it is good that all the states of the european union have acceded to the convention, i cannot help but notice that the concept of the 'best interests of the child' is often interpreted in an instrumental way. i refer, for example, to the case of germany, whose jugendamt, the office for children, in effect exchanges the welfare of the child for the welfare of the german child, depriving the non-german parent and the child himself of a number of fundamental rights, including some of those which form the basis of the hague convention. the problem is not, unfortunately, confined to germany alone, and europe is helplessly watching these abuses as it has no power to intervene in the family law of individual member states. i therefore believe that harmonization of legislation in this area is urgent.
in writing. i am pleased that singapore is a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction and that is why i voted in favour of the report. the convention provides effective means for resolving disputes arising from international child abduction following separation or divorce, by providing that the competent court and the applicable law shall be that of the state of residence of the child.
in writing. i welcome the accession of singapore to the hague convention.
in writing. - i declare my vote in favour and my full support for singapore's accession to the hague convention of 25 october 1980, so that children with links to the singaporean community can also benefit from eu protection measures in the event of separation or dispute between their parents. the convention is in fact a very effective instrument for safeguarding children, since it brings the rights of children applicable in their country of residence to the centre of the conflicts of couples in crisis of different nationalities, overcoming the temptation to give preferential treatment to the parents' countries of origin and the dramatic risk of international child abduction. europe, the guardian of human rights, should extend the range of measures to protect children in all countries that so request, thus preventing unfair national legal favouritism and the misguided parental management of the fragility of children.
in writing. i voted in favour of singapore joining the hague convention on international child abduction because it is a fundamental cooperation agreement for the respect of children's rights. given the close economic ties that europe has established with singapore, a framework for the protection of minors in the event of disputes is necessary.
in writing. international child abductions following separation or divorce are unfortunately a regular occurrence. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a major instrument, ratified by all the member states of the european union. international cooperation is essential for the settlement of these disputes. that is why i support this resolution in its entirety. the accession of singapore to the convention and consequently the effective entry into force of the convention in cases concerning the european union and singapore is to be welcomed. it is our moral and political duty to ensure that the children concerned are protected at eu level.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of mrs hautala's report because, in view of the close economic ties between the eu and singapore, it will ensure that children are better protected at eu level. in the light of the many accessions ratified today, i am pleased with the work done so far and hope that it can continue with new accessions.
in writing. favourable to the report on the accession of singapore to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the accession of singapore to the convention is welcome, especially as the eu has close economic ties with the country.
in writing. the convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, signed at the hague on 25 october 1980, introduced a system allowing contracting states to cooperate with a view to finding sustainable solutions to international child abduction. in view of the close economic ties between the eu and singapore, i have decided to support singapore's accession to the convention. it will give greater protection to minors with links to the community in this country.
in writing. we believe that the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important instrument, ratified by all eu member states, as it introduces a system which allows contracting states to cooperate in solving cases of international child abduction. the aim is to avoid uncertainties or dangerous legal gaps. the competent court and the applicable law are those of the state in which the child is resident. however, while the european union has exclusive external competence in this area (as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13), i.e. individual member states no longer have the possibility of acting individually by referring to their own legal systems, the problem remains that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations. to overcome this legal difficulty, the council decided that it would be for each member state to accept, each in respect of its own territory, the accession of new states to the convention. we therefore welcome singapore's accession to the abovementioned convention, so as to ensure that children with links to the singaporean community can find protection against abduction at eu level.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important instrument. the convention establishes a system that allows contracting states to cooperate in resolving cases of international child abduction. where spouses are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between the states concerned in order to obtain custody of the children, and there is often a tendency in the legal systems of individual states to favour one another on the basis of nationality. the convention is intended to address such situations at the international level and the many eu citizens who are originally from singapore and the minors with links to the singaporean community will thus find protection against abduction. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. i am in favour of singapore joining the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. finally, children with ties to the singaporean community will also be able to have effective protection against abduction.
in writing. the 1980 hague convention is a very important text for the protection of children. i therefore believe it is essential that more countries should join the convention and i have therefore voted in favour of singapore's accession to the convention.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe it is essential to promote the protection of the rights of children.
in writing. the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction provides for cooperation between signatory states to return a child or young person under 16 who has been arbitrarily 'abducted' from a parent to the family residence pending a court ruling, unless such return would constitute a serious danger to the child's safety. i believe it is of fundamental importance for the protection of our children that this convention is ratified and respected by more and more states. i therefore intend to vote in favour of morocco's accession as one of the new signatories.
in writing. — i voted yes because i consider it fundamental that this convention is applied in as many countries as possible, due to its importance.
in writing. i voted in favour. the hague convention is a positive one and the protection of minors must be extended as far as possible to other states which wish to become parties to it.
in writing. some states exploit the lack of cooperation between national authorities to obtain custody of children when there is a pending case between two spouses from different nations. accession to the hague convention establishes the competent court in the state where the child is resident, limiting the possibility of disputes over jurisdiction and thus bringing about a more rapid procedure. that is why we are voting in favour.
in writing. the hague convention is a key instrument for ensuring the return of children who have been unlawfully removed or retained abroad by a parent and for ensuring that custody and visitation rights are respected in all states. my country, italy, was the only one to support, even before the court intervened, the exclusive competence of the union in this area, requiring full regulatory and operational coordination between states, instead of approaches aimed at protecting the parent, its own citizen, even at the expense of the child's interest and the rights of citizens of other countries. i believe that for the convention to be properly applied, the states will have to meet certain requirements: efficient central authorities which can really serve as a reference for administrative cooperation; rules which prevent discriminatory practices; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's acquis in this area. i therefore welcome morocco's accession and have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a major instrument which has been ratified by all the member states of the european union. it effectively enables the contracting states to cooperate in solving cases of international child abduction. the problem is manifest in separating couples where the spouses are of different nationalities, because there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between states. in the various states there are legal systems which tend to favour certain categories of persons on the basis of nationality, leaving the right of surety to be interpreted in a dubious way. to resolve such situations at the international level, the convention puts the child at the centre of the problem by stipulating that the court of jurisdiction is the court where the child resides. in view of all this, the accession of the state of morocco to the convention is to be welcomed, also in view of the favourable opinion of the rapporteur who fully supports the measure. the eu will thus protect minors with links to the moroccan community against abduction. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of morocco's accession to the hague convention of 25 october 1980. given the importance and the sensitivity of the subject under discussion, i am in favour of the establishment of a permanent system of cooperation between the contracting states on the security of child custody. i particularly welcome the increased protection for minors, as it stipulates that the courts and laws to be applied are those of the states in which the minors reside. i voted in favour of the convention all the more so because it introduces a system which ensures the immediate return of the child who has been abducted. my vote is consistent with the principle that it is better for the greatest possible number of states to accede to the convention in order to increase its effectiveness.
in writing. i voted in favour of the council decision on the declaration by the member states of acceptance of morocco's accession to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. in an international context where the mobility of families across national borders is increasing, the phenomenon of child abduction is particularly important in the event of a crisis between couples. protecting children from wrongful removal or non-return is a global issue as well as a core element of the eu programme. article 24 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union states that children have the right to protection and that their interests 'shall be considered as paramount'. i therefore support morocco's accession, because only through international cooperation can the issues of child custody be resolved and the child abducted be returned immediately. the children who have ties to the moroccan community can thus be better protected from any danger of abduction.
in writing. in 1987 parliament created the office of the european parliament ombudsman for international child abduction. his role is to monitor the evolving situation of child abductions and ensure that children's rights are respected, while parents find a compromise for their children. today's vote on the report on the proposal for a council decision on the member states' declaration of acceptance of morocco's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction strengthens the road towards the objective of accession for all countries of the world. i am voting in favour of the accession of the kingdom of morocco to the convention.
in writing. i voted in favour of morocco's accession to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction because this will give children with ties to the moroccan community greater protection against this phenomenon. the convention allows for cooperation between the contracting states in order to find a solution to cases of international child abduction. this problem arises when spouses from different states, following their separation, take advantage of the lack of cooperation between the states concerned to obtain custody of their children. the aim of this convention is to settle such situations at international level by providing that the competent court and the applicable law shall be those of the state of residence of the child.
in writing. i welcome this proposal from the council to accept morocco's accession to the 1980 hague convention. the issue of the protection of the rights of children is of central importance and it seems therefore very positive that an increasing number of states are being included, especially considering that there are a great many people on european soil from countries which are now asking for membership, which will facilitate the resolution of cases of abduction between a member state and these third countries. however, while it is good that all the states of the european union have acceded to the convention, i cannot help but notice that the concept of the 'best interests of the child' is often interpreted in an instrumental way. i refer, for example, to the case of germany, whose jugendamt, the office for children, in effect exchanges the welfare of the child for the welfare of the german child, depriving the non-german parent and the child himself of a number of fundamental rights, including some of those which form the basis of the hague convention. the problem is not, unfortunately, confined to germany alone, and europe is helplessly watching these abuses as it has no power to intervene in the family law of individual member states. i therefore believe that harmonization of legislation in this area is urgent.
in writing. i am pleased that morocco is acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction and that is why i voted in favour of the report. the convention provides effective means for resolving disputes arising from international child abduction following separation or divorce, by providing that the competent court and the applicable law shall be that of the state of residence of the child.
in writing. i welcome the accession of morocco to the hague convention.
in writing. - i declare my vote in favour and my full support for morocco's accession to the hague convention of 25 october 1980, so that children with ties to the moroccan community can also benefit from the eu's protection measures in the event of separation or dispute between their parents. the convention is in fact a very effective instrument for safeguarding children, since it brings the rights of children applicable in their country of residence to the centre of the conflicts of couples in crisis of different nationalities, overcoming the temptation to give preferential treatment to the parents' countries of origin and the dramatic risk of international child abduction. europe, the guardian of human rights, should extend the range of measures to protect children in all countries that so request, thus preventing unfair national legal favouritism and the misguided parental management of the fragility of children. the measure is particularly important because it regulates the relationship with a country with which many european states have close ties and relations. we hope that these regulations will give rise to new and stronger rights for minors in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of morocco's accession to the hague convention on international child abduction because morocco is an important partner for europe and moroccan communities in europe are very numerous. that is why it is essential to make effective cooperation in protecting the rights of the many minor children of european and moroccan citizens.
in writing. international child abductions following separation or divorce are unfortunately a regular occurrence. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a major instrument, ratified by all the member states of the european union. international cooperation is essential for the settlement of these disputes. that is why i support this resolution in its entirety. the accession of morocco to the convention and consequently the effective entry into force of the convention in cases concerning the european union and morocco is to be welcomed. it is our moral and political duty to ensure that moroccan minors are protected at eu level.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of mrs hautala's report. given the eu's relations with morocco in the context of the neighbourhood policy and the high proportion of moroccan nationals in the territory of the union, i consider it important that morocco accedes to the hague convention in such a crucial area.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision on the declaration by the member states of acceptance of morocco's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a major instrument, ratified by all the member states of the european union.
in writing. preventing child abduction is one of the main objectives of eu policy in the field of children's rights. it is no coincidence that the european union has always been at the forefront, at international level, in supporting better implementation of the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the hague convention is a central instrument. it introduces a system enabling the contracting states to cooperate with a view to finding solutions to the problem of international child abduction. in the light of the existing relations between the eu and morocco, in the framework of the neighbourhood policy, and taking into account the fact that a high percentage of citizens of the union are of moroccan origin, i welcome the accession of morocco to the convention.
in writing. we believe that the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important instrument, ratified by all eu member states, as it introduces a system which allows contracting states to cooperate in solving cases of international child abduction. the aim is to avoid uncertainties or dangerous legal gaps. the competent court and the applicable law are those of the state in which the child is resident. however, while the european union has exclusive external competence in this area (as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13), i.e. individual member states no longer have the possibility of acting individually by referring to their own legal systems, the problem remains that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations. to overcome this legal difficulty, the council decided that it would be for each member state to accept, each in respect of its own territory, the accession of new states to the convention. we therefore welcome the accession of albania to the above convention, so as to ensure that children with ties to the moroccan community can find protection against abduction at eu level.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important instrument. the convention establishes a system that allows contracting states to cooperate in resolving cases of international child abduction. where spouses are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between the states concerned in order to obtain custody of the children, and there is often a tendency in the legal systems of individual states to favour one another on the basis of nationality. the aim of the convention is to address these situations at international level and the many citizens of the european union are originally from morocco and the minors with ties to the moroccan community will thus find protection against abduction. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. given the very high number of european union citizens of moroccan origin and the high number of unions between european citizens and moroccan citizens, i welcome very much the accession of morocco to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. in this case too, the effective entry into force of the convention will help to resolve the delicate situations where it is necessary to decide at international level on the custody of a child, by protecting the rights of the child in the best possible way.
in writing. i consider the fact that morocco has decided to accede to the 1980 hague convention a very important gesture for the protection of all minors. that is why i voted in favour of mrs hautala's report.
in writing. - i voted in favour because it was about protecting the rights of minors.
in writing. the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction provides for cooperation between signatory states to return a child or young person under 16 who has been arbitrarily 'abducted' from a parent to the family residence pending a court ruling, unless such return would constitute a serious danger to the child's safety. i believe it is of fundamental importance for the protection of our children that this convention is ratified and respected by more and more states. i therefore intend to vote in favour of morocco's accession as one of the new signatories.
in writing. — i voted yes because it is fundamental for armenia to join this convention, in order to protect children in the country.
in writing. i voted in favour. the hague convention is a positive one and the protection of minors must be extended as far as possible to other states which wish to become parties to it.
in writing. some states exploit the lack of cooperation between national authorities to obtain custody of children when there is a pending case between two spouses from different nations. accession to the hague convention establishes the competent court in the state where the child is resident, limiting the possibility of disputes over jurisdiction and thus bringing about a more rapid procedure. that is why we are voting in favour.
in writing. the hague convention is a key instrument for ensuring the return of children who have been unlawfully removed or retained abroad by a parent and for ensuring that custody and visitation rights are respected in all states. my country, italy, was the only one to support, even before the court intervened, the exclusive competence of the union in this area, requiring full regulatory and operational coordination between states, instead of approaches aimed at protecting the parent, its own citizen, even at the expense of the child's interest and the rights of citizens of other countries. i believe that for the convention to be properly applied, the states will have to meet certain requirements: efficient central authorities which can really serve as a reference for administrative cooperation; rules which prevent discriminatory practices; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's acquis in this area. in view of this, i welcome the accession of armenia and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a major instrument which has been ratified by all the member states of the european union. it effectively enables the contracting states to cooperate in solving cases of international child abduction. the problem is manifest in separating couples where the spouses are of different nationalities, because there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between states. in the various states there are legal systems which tend to favour certain categories of persons on the basis of nationality, leaving the right of surety to be interpreted in a dubious way. to resolve such situations at the international level, the convention puts the child at the center of the problem by stipulating that the court of jurisdiction is the court where the child resides. in view of all this, the accession of the state of armenia to the convention is to be welcomed, also in view of the favourable opinion of the rapporteur who fully supports the measure. the eu will also provide protection against abductions of children with links to the armenian community. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of armenia's accession to the hague convention of 25 october 1980. i agree with the establishment of a permanent system of cooperation between the contracting states on the security of child custody. i particularly welcome the increased protection for minors, as it stipulates that the courts and laws to be applied are those of the states in which the minors reside. since armenia is a member state of euronest (of whose parliamentary delegation i am a member), i am all the more pleased to see further approximation of legislation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the council decision on the declaration by the member states of acceptance of the accession of armenia to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. in an international context where the mobility of families across national borders is increasing, the phenomenon of child abduction is particularly important in the event of a crisis between couples. protecting children from wrongful removal or non-return is a global issue as well as a core element of the eu programme. article 24 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union states that children have the right to protection and that their interests 'shall be considered as paramount'. i therefore support the accession of the republic of armenia, since only through international cooperation is it possible to resolve the issues relating to the custody of minors and to ensure the immediate return of the abducted child. children with ties to the armenian community can thus be better protected from any danger of abduction.
in writing. what is meant by international child abduction? the term refers to a situation where a child is unlawfully removed from their habitual residence or across national borders, without the consent of the other parent, in violation of custody rights. the report on the proposal for a council decision on the declaration by the member states, in the interest of the european union, of acceptance of the accession of armenia to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an important step towards ensuring certain rights for children in armenia and in the more than 90 countries which have signed the convention. for these reasons i shall vote in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of armenia's accession to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction because this will give children with links to the armenian community greater protection against this phenomenon. the convention allows for cooperation between the contracting states in order to find a solution to cases of international child abduction. this problem arises when spouses from different states, following their separation, take advantage of the lack of cooperation between the states concerned to obtain custody of their children. the aim of this convention is to settle such situations at international level by providing that the competent court and the applicable law shall be those of the state of residence of the child.
in writing. i welcome this proposal by the council to accept the accession of armenia to the 1980 hague convention. the issue of the protection of the rights of children is of central importance and it seems therefore very positive that an increasing number of states are being included, especially considering that there are a great many people on european soil from countries which are now asking for membership, which will facilitate the resolution of cases of abduction between a member state and these third countries. however, while it is good that all the states of the european union have acceded to the convention, i cannot help but notice that the concept of the 'best interests of the child' is often interpreted in an instrumental way. i refer, for example, to the case of germany, whose jugendamt, the office for children, in effect exchanges the welfare of the child for the welfare of the german child, depriving the non-german parent and the child himself of a number of fundamental rights, including some of those which form the basis of the hague convention. the problem is not, unfortunately, confined to germany alone, and europe is helplessly watching these abuses as it has no power to intervene in the family law of individual member states. i therefore believe that harmonization of legislation in this area is urgent.
in writing. i am pleased that armenia is acceding to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction and that is why i voted in favour of the report. the convention provides effective means for resolving disputes arising from international child abduction following separation or divorce, by providing that the competent court and the applicable law shall be that of the state of residence of the child.
in writing. i welcome the accession of armenia to the hague convention.
in writing. - i declare my vote in favour and my full support for armenia's accession to the hague convention of 25 october 1980, so that children with ties to the armenian community can also benefit from the eu's protection measures in the event of separation or dispute between their parents. the convention is in fact a very effective instrument for safeguarding children, since it brings the rights of children applicable in their country of residence to the centre of the conflicts of couples in crisis of different nationalities, overcoming the temptation to give preferential treatment to the parents' countries of origin and the dramatic risk of international child abduction. europe, the guardian of human rights, should extend the range of measures to protect children in all countries that so request, thus preventing unfair national legal favouritism and the misguided parental management of the fragility of children.
in writing. international child abductions following separation or divorce are unfortunately a regular occurrence. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a major instrument, ratified by all the member states of the european union. international cooperation is essential for the settlement of these disputes. that is why i support this resolution in its entirety. the accession of armenia to the convention and consequently the effective entry into force of the convention in cases concerning the european union and armenia is to be welcomed. it is our moral and political duty to ensure that armenian minors are protected at eu level.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of mrs hautala's report because i believe that the protection and promotion of the rights of the child is a priority for the european union, especially in the area of child abduction. i therefore welcome the accession of armenia.
in writing. favourable to the proposal for a council decision on the declaration by the member states, in the interest of the european union, of acceptance of the accession of armenia to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention introduces a system to ensure the immediate return of the abducted child. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 introduces a system which allows contracting states to cooperate with the aim of finding sustainable solutions to the issue of international child abduction. the protection and promotion of the rights of the child are priorities for the european union, also in the context of its neighbourhood relations. i have given my consent to armenia's accession to the convention because it will give children with ties to the armenian community greater protection in the event of abduction.
in writing. we believe that the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important instrument, ratified by all eu member states, as it introduces a system which allows contracting states to cooperate in solving cases of international child abduction. the aim is to avoid uncertainties or dangerous legal gaps. the competent court and the applicable law are those of the state in which the child is resident. however, while the european union has exclusive external competence in this area (as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13), i.e. individual member states no longer have the possibility of acting individually by referring to their own legal systems, the problem remains that the convention does not provide for the autonomous action of international organisations. to overcome this legal difficulty, the council decided that it would be for each member state to accept, each in respect of its own territory, the accession of new states to the convention. we therefore welcome the accession of albania to the above convention, so as to ensure that children with links to the armenian community can find protection against abduction at eu level.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important instrument. the convention establishes a system that allows contracting states to cooperate in resolving cases of international child abduction. where spouses are from different states, there is a temptation to exploit the lack of cooperation between the states concerned in order to obtain custody of the children, and there is often a tendency in the legal systems of individual states to favour one another on the basis of nationality. the aim of the convention is to address these situations at international level and the many citizens of the european union who are originally from armenia and minors with ties to the armenian community will thus find protection against abductions. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. i welcome the decision of armenia to accede to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, as this accession will help to protect children with ties to the armenian community against abductions to which they may be subjected.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the accession of armenia to the 1980 hague convention because i believe that greater international cooperation on international child abduction is fundamental for all our citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour because it was about protecting the rights of minors.
in writing. i voted in favour of the svoboda report because i share the views expressed in it.
in writing. — i voted yes because i recognise the legitimate election of me and my colleagues.
in writing. the report calls on the member states to simplify the voting and ratification procedures for elected members of the european parliament, thus bringing the many disputes to a swift conclusion. i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the verification of credentials today. the report, submitted by the european parliament's committee on legal affairs, which is responsible for the verification of the credentials of members, refers to the results of the direct election of the european parliament held from 22 to 25 may 2014 and is based on the official communication by each member state of the overall electoral results. the communication also specified the names of the candidates elected and their possible replacements, as well as the ranking as it appeared in the vote. today's vote therefore concerned the validation by the european parliament of the mandates of the members elected at the last elections who had made the written declarations provided for.
in writing. parliament's legal affairs committee has taken note of the results of the european elections as communicated by the electoral offices of the various member states, declaring the election of the members of the european parliament valid.
in writing. article 7 of the 1976 act specifies the offices which are incompatible with that of member of the european parliament. furthermore, in accordance with rule 11 and annex i to the rules of procedure, members are required to declare precisely the professional activities for which they are paid, whereas under article 12 of the 1976 act, the european parliament decides on objections to the validity of the mandate of its members only in the event of a breach of the provisions of the said act and not in the event of a breach of national electoral provisions. under article 12 of the 1976 act, parliament must take note of the results of the elections. the united kingdom electoral commission has reported that some citizens of other member states residing in the united kingdom were unable to exercise their right to vote. deprivation of the right to vote is tantamount to punishing citizens who have exercised their right to free movement within the eu, to denying them the right to vote (article 20 tfeu) and to violating the principle of direct universal suffrage (article 14 (3) teu and article 1 of the 1976 act). the european parliament considers that deprivation of rights cannot be applied to european elections under any circumstances and calls on the member states to comply with european law. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the verification of the powers of members, because i believe in the transparency of the elected institutions in the rule of law. as a member of parliament, i am required to declare accurately my professional activities and any other paid functions or activities. it also seems to me correct that parliament should take note of the results of elections officially proclaimed by the competent authorities of the member states without any discretion in this respect. however, this provision does not prevent parliament from referring, where appropriate, any cases of incompatibility between national electoral legislation, on which the results are based, and eu law.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the verification of the credentials of newly elected members of the european parliament. this matter is governed by the act of 20 september 1976, as amended by council decision 2002/772/ec, euratom of 25 june and 23 september 2002, and by the european parliament's regulation. each member is required to sign two written declarations: the first relates to the absence of incompatible charges and the second to its financial interests. failure to submit the above declarations shall make it impossible to validate the mandate. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. in accordance with the rules of procedure, the european parliament is required to verify the credentials of new members of the european parliament in order to declare their mandate valid. in essence, written statements made by members are checked as regards their professional activities and any other paid functions or activities. the rapporteur proposes that parliament declare it valid, subject to any decisions of the competent authorities of the member states where the election results have been contested. in addition, the authorities of the member states are invited to complete the examination of pending disputes concerning the election of members of parliament and to inform parliament of the results. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of putting forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to chemical agents.
in writing. i support the report calling on the member states to simplify the voting and ratification procedures for elected members of the european parliament, thus bringing the many disputes to a swift conclusion.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of mr svoboda's report as chairman of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament. the report adopted today speaks for the consistency of the last european elections of 22-25 may 2014 and is based on the official communication by each member state of the overall electoral results. the verification of the credentials of newly elected members of the european parliament is governed by the act of 20 september 1976 concerning the election of the members of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage (as amended by council decision 2002/772/ec, euratom of 25 june and 23 september 2002) and by the rules of procedure of the european parliament. pursuant to point 10 of section xvi of annex vi to the rules of procedure, the committee on legal affairs is responsible for verifying the credentials of members.
in writing. this report refers to the results of the direct elections to the european parliament, which took place between 22 and 25 may 2014. it is based on an official communication from each member state on the results of the elections. the verification of the credentials of newly elected members of the european parliament is governed by the act of 20 september 1976 concerning the election of the members of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage (as amended by council decision 2002/772/ec, euratom of 25 june and 23 september 2002) and by the rules of procedure of the european parliament. pursuant to point 10 of section xvi of annex vi to the rules of procedure, the committee on legal affairs is responsible for verifying the credentials of members. i agree with mr svoboda's report, because it fully supports the view that the european elections were held in accordance with the relevant provisions.
in writing. article 7 (1) and (2) of the act of 20 september 1976 specifies the offices which are incompatible with that of member of the european parliament. members are required to declare precisely the professional activities they carry out and any other paid functions or activities. in some cases, member states have partially notified the elected candidates and in some of them the examination of objections to the election of certain members is ongoing and such procedures could lead to the annulment of the election of the members concerned. in order to verify the credentials of its members, parliament is entitled to refer any cases of incompatibility between national electoral legislation, on which the results are based, and european union law. citizens of certain member states who have lived in another country for a certain period of time may be deprived of the right to vote in their member state of origin. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. it seems to me absolutely correct, in relation to the electors of the european union, that there should be a review by the legal affairs committee of the powers of the elected members of parliament. of course the european parliament will have to refer to and take note of the official results of the elections from the relevant competent authority in the member state, and in this the european parliament has no discretion, but it is right that the european parliament should ensure that there are no cases of incompatibility between national electoral legislation and eu law. it is important that members sign the declaration of non-incompatibility and the declaration of financial interests at the beginning of their term of office, so that the system is as transparent as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour because the report calls on the member states to simplify the voting and ratification procedures for elected members of the european parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour because i think it is right that the exchange of information on road traffic offences should be a matter of road safety rather than police cooperation. there are too many cases where the authorities are unable to punish the perpetrators of offences because they are committed by foreign vehicles. the perpetrators cannot be traced because their addresses are unknown. for the safety of all, the free movement of persons and their means of transport must be accompanied by the free and rapid circulation of information. in the case of serious road safety offences, such as speeding or driving under the influence of drugs, the perpetrators must be traced. if the victims can be anywhere, the perpetrators must be traced everywhere.
in writing. the sender report is balanced and shareable. i am convinced that greater safety on our roads also comes from a better and more effective exchange of information between member states, including on offences committed by road users. i therefore intend to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. i strongly support the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive to facilitate the crossborder exchange of information on road traffic offences. the speed and collaboration shown by the european institutions on this issue is a positive and encouraging sign, and in this regard we hope that work will continue rapidly so that the proposal enters into force by may 2015 so that there are no legal gaps. following the annulment of directive 2011/82/eu by the court of justice of the european union, its content is re-proposed by adapting the previous text to the renewed legal basis. the aim is to confirm the will not to allow the impunity of traffic offences by maintaining a european code of conduct according to which the anonymity of non-resident drivers is not possible. i particularly welcome the commitment to strengthened exchange of information between the authorities of the different states on security matters, cooperation which will facilitate the harmonization of different national practices.
in writing. — i voted in favour because i consider the exchange of information regarding road safety inside the union in order to protect our citizens to be very important.
in writing. the measure is based on the need to improve road safety, including through better information exchange between member states. i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive to facilitate the crossborder exchange of information on road safety offences. with this vote, the european parliament had the responsibility to adopt the new directive in order to avoid creating a legal limbo on the subject with negative consequences for the road safety of european citizens following the judgment of the general court of the eu on 6 may 2014. the court of justice had declared the directive void because it had been adopted on an incorrect legal basis (system of exchange of information between the competent authorities of the member states), but had extended its effects for 12 months to allow the legislator to correct its shortcomings and adopt a new text in accordance with the legal basis on transport safety. i am pleased that parliament was able to adopt the new version of the directive quickly, as it had already shown its potential: since its entry into force in november 2013, the number of offences committed by foreign drivers, aware that any offence committed abroad would be notified to them thanks to this new mechanism, has in fact decreased.
in writing. we vote in favour of this directive. the exchange of information in the field of road safety is a key step in the process of european integration and in reducing the number of victims of accidents.
in writing. the measure in question contains the same text as directive 2011/82/eu to facilitate the cross-border exchange of information on road safety offences, which was approved by a very large majority in 2011 by parliament, with two amendments. the amendments are in line with the judgment of the general court of the eu of 6 may 2014, which held that directive 2011/82/eu was adopted on the wrong legal basis concerning police cooperation in criminal matters (article 87 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union). it also stated that the legal basis was that relating to transport safety. although the court of first instance declared the directive void, it recognised its relevance and ruled that, in order to avoid a legislative vacuum, the effects of the repealed directive would be maintained for 12 months and that in the meantime the legislator would adopt a new text in accordance with transport safety. the commission, although it had brought an action for annulment of the wrongful measure, submitted the new text to parliament, which was drafted quickly and provided for the amendment only of the aspects concerning the legal basis and the territorial scope of application. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the crossborder exchange of information on road safety infringements. this is because the proposal under consideration makes two qualitatively significant changes to the text of directive 2011/82/eu to facilitate the cross-border exchange of information on road safety offences, which was approved by a very large majority in parliament and unanimously in the council in 2011: the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. this is a mere technical adjustment which leaves the previous legal framework unchanged.
in writing. i fully support the new proposal for a directive to facilitate the cross-border exchange of information on road traffic offences, which was already approved by a very large majority in the european parliament in 2011 and is currently being implemented by 20 member states. i think it is appropriate that every citizen should be treated equally and that in the event of a violation of the road traffic code, the offender, whatever his state of residence, should be notified of the offence committed, of course in full respect of the protection of personal data. it is also appropriate to include in the scope of the directive new cases of infringements which endanger not only the safety of the driver but also that of all other road users: driving under the influence of drugs, failure to wear a motorcycle helmet, use of mobile phones while driving and driving in a restricted lane. the willingness of denmark, the united kingdom and ireland to accede to and transpose this directive without reservations is also significant, as it shows a strong commitment to contribute to the radical reduction of road fatalities.
in writing. improving road safety is a key objective of the union's transport policy with the aim of reducing the number of fatalities, injuries and property damage. it is important that penalties for infringements committed in the union which seriously endanger road safety are applied consistently. the financial penalties for certain types of road traffic offences are often not applied if the offences are committed with a vehicle registered in a member state other than the member state in which the offence was committed. this directive aims to ensure that the effectiveness of investigations into road safety infringements is also guaranteed in such cases. the proposal in question contains the same text as directive 2011/82/eu to facilitate the cross-border exchange of information on road safety offences, which was approved by a very large majority in parliament in 2011, but with two qualitatively significant amendments: the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. for these reasons i could only vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the above directive because i consider it a step forward towards completing the process of european integration. the proposal, which takes over directive 2011/82 as annulled by the court of justice of the european union, will facilitate the cross-border exchange of information on road safety offences (such as speeding or drunk driving) and end the anonymity of non-resident drivers. it will also ensure that road traffic offences do not go unpunished and demonstrate that all drivers in the european union have the same rights and duties. road safety can only be achieved by certain rules, common and respected by all.
in writing. although europe is living up to its ambitious target of reducing road accidents by 50% by 2020 compared to 2010, i believe that there is still work to be done to bring down the european average of 52 deaths per million inhabitants. one of the main measures is certainly the certainty of the penalty in the event of an infringement in a member state other than that of registration, thus avoiding that the driver who travels to a foreign state feels exempt from compliance with the applicable rules of the road traffic code. it is therefore in this context that i welcome the new proposal for directive 2011/82/eu to facilitate the cross-border exchange of information on road safety offences which, in accordance with the judgment of the court of justice of the eu, establishes a legal basis for transport safety and includes the three previously excluded member states.
in writing. i express my support for this measure, which is based on the need to improve road safety, including through better exchange of information between member states.
in writing. the italian and european citizens have long been calling for measures to increase road safety to avoid as far as possible the tragedy of accidents that destroy thousands of families every year. despite the delays caused by the slowness of the council's work, today's vote in the european parliament has approved a measure which puts an end to crossborder impunity for those irresponsible drivers who, for example, drive while intoxicated or under the influence of drugs. today we can rejoice that we have established a strong deterrent with which we hope to save many lives. it is another step towards the fundamental political and moral objective of reducing road deaths by 50% by 2020.
in writing. - i declare my vote in favour and support for the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council to facilitate the cross-border exchange of information on road safety offences, with a view to the adoption as soon as possible of the amendments to directive 2011/82/eu, thus allowing parliament and the member states to take all the necessary measures to successfully achieve the objective of halving the number of road fatalities and reducing the number of injuries by 40% by 2020. we hope that the road safety achievements so far will be confirmed and extended by 2020 and that the constant work of dialogue with the associations of the relatives of road victims, the competent authorities and the new tools available for research and protection of road safety will make it possible to pursue higher objectives, which will enable us to live the road as a connecting road to be undertaken always with a great sense of responsibility and no longer as a threat of danger.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of mrs ayala sender's report because i believe that improving road safety is a primary objective of the european union's transport policy. directive 2011/82/eu aims to facilitate the cross-border exchange of information on road safety related traffic offences. since its entry into force on 11 november 2013, it has contributed to a significant decrease in the number of infringements by foreign drivers. finally, i would like to stress two qualitatively significant innovations: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. favourable to the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive to facilitate the crossborder exchange of information on road safety infringements. the new text introduces the legal basis for transport safety and makes several adjustments to the implementing legislation on data protection in accordance with the new legal basis.
in writing. directive 2011/82/eu aims to facilitate the cross-border exchange of information on road safety related infringements. since its entry into force in november 2013, it has contributed to a significant decrease in the number of infringements committed by foreign drivers. although the proposal retains the text of the directive in question, it introduces two qualitatively significant new elements: the commission has decided to initiate the procedure provided for in article 93 (2) of the eec treaty in respect of the amendment of the legal basis and the extension of the scope of application to the three member states which were excluded from the application of the previous measure (the united kingdom, denmark and ireland). in the light of the above and taking into account that improving road safety is a primary objective of the european union's transport policy, i voted in favour of the sender report.
in writing. we support this new directive to facilitate the cross-border exchange of information on road safety offences, convinced of the need to put an end to impunity for foreign vehicles on eu roads. we are confident that this will be a strong deterrent for foreign drivers, who will be aware that any infringement committed abroad can be notified to them thanks to this new mechanism. we hope, together with the rapporteur, that the directive in question will be adopted within the deadline set by the european court of justice, in order to avoid creating a dangerous legal vacuum. we hope, once again, that there will be fruitful and careful cooperation between the competent authorities of the member states and the offices of the european commission in order to draw up regular and careful impact assessments on road safety in europe.
in writing. the proposal contains the same text as directive 2011/82/eu to facilitate the cross-border exchange of information on road safety related traffic offences. the amendments made by the proposal concern, on the one hand, the amendment of the legal basis and the related technical amendments and, on the other hand, the extension of the scope to the three member states which were excluded from the previous directive. these amendments are in line with the judgment of the general court of the eu of 6 may 2014, which ruled that the appropriate legal basis is transport safety. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. in fact, the text of the proposal in question fully reproduces the text of directive 2011/82/eu, which aims to facilitate the cross-border exchange of information on road safety infringements. the new text only changes the legal basis and the territorial scope. in the past the legal basis was police cooperation in criminal matters, whereas the new legal basis is, as it should be, transport safety. as regards the territorial scope, it is extended to the united kingdom, denmark and ireland, which were not included in the 2011 directive. this new mechanism will reduce the number of infringements, as foreign drivers will be aware that any infringement committed abroad can be reported to them.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mrs ayala sender because the report, which contains mostly the same text as directive 2011/82/eu, is intended to facilitate the cross-border exchange of information on road safety offences and thus to ensure greater protection for our citizens. the new directive modified the legal basis (transport safety) as requested by the court of first instance, and also extended its scope to three states previously excluded: the united kingdom, denmark and ireland.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of the directive because it aims to increase road safety, also by improving the exchange of information between member states.
in writing. the previous directive was not based on a proper legal basis. i believe that the main purpose of this legislation is to improve road safety. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the establishment of an effective system for the cross-border exchange of information on those road traffic offences which daily put the health and often the lives of our european citizens at risk. thousands of accidents are reported each year, caused by speeding, distracted driving and driving while intoxicated or under the influence of drugs. road safety knows no boundaries and thanks to today's vote, offenders will have to take that into account and take responsibility, regardless of the country they come from. the member states will be able to access vehicle registration data through an electronic data exchange network, thus ensuring that road traffic offences do not go unpunished.
in writing. - in 2010, the european commission adopted a strategy to drastically reduce road fatalities by 2020. however, cuts in infrastructure maintenance costs, lack of policies for safety innovation and ageing car fleets make it difficult to achieve this. we must therefore take all the measures that can help us in this respect, such as this directive to facilitate crossborder trade in infringements. in fact, some studies have shown that the proportion of non-residents involved in offences is generally higher than that of domestic trafficking, mainly because of the almost total impunity enjoyed by the former due to the difficulty of the local authorities in tracing the foreign offender. i therefore voted strongly in favour of a regulation which is intended to facilitate the exchange of information between the competent authorities, so as to ensure fair treatment between european citizens, which leads everyone to behave more responsibly when driving. i also appreciate that during the process it was decided to consult the european data protection supervisor to ensure that the new rules do not in any way affect the right to privacy of citizens.
in writing. i do not share the views expressed in the nicolai report on the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of senegal. in view of the requests made to the commission by the venetian and italian fisheries sector and given that they are still unanswered, i believe that the eu should first take action to support the member states and only then deal with agreements with third countries. for these reasons i voted against this text.
in writing. — i voted yes since i consider a fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and senegal to be very productive.
in writing. we welcome the approval of this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with the republic of senegal, as it is a balanced and fair act that favours european and senegalese interests in line with the development cooperation policies pursued so far. the aim of this treaty is to grant fishing opportunities to eu vessels in senegalese waters, taking into account scientific data and assessments and the international commitments on the protection and conservation of tuna and the fight against illegal fishing, the so-called iuu. this partnership is intended to strengthen cooperation between the european union and senegal in the spirit of solidarity and aid to developing third countries, with a view to promoting a sustainable fisheries policy and the rational exploitation of fishery resources.
in writing. the agreement is harmful to the italian fisheries sector. only french and spanish fishermen will be given advantages. i voted against it.
in writing. after careful consideration, i voted today in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the eu-senegal sustainable fisheries partnership agreement, giving my approval to its conclusion, given that the new agreement is in the interests of both parties and improves best practice in the sector, with benefits also for the sustainability of fisheries. i agree with the rapporteur's conclusions, stressing that these agreements will have a number of positive consequences, first of all for relations between the european union and the republic of senegal in this field, by renewing and renegotiating the protocols which expired in 2006. in addition, it will help local authorities to step up the fight against illegal fishing and increase the opportunities for increasing the economic activity of eu vessels. i also agree with the questions raised about the need for forecasts to facilitate a reasonable economic understanding, real sustainability of fisheries and adequate support for the local fisheries sector. i urge the commission to monitor the developments and implementation of the agreements, to allow dialogue with parliament and to report on the impact of this agreement on the fisheries sector in that region.
in writing. this recommendation for the renewal of the sustainable fisheries partnership allows local fishermen to increase economic activity in the senegalese maritime area and allows the use of the satellite vessel monitoring system for another five years, thus improving the fight against illegal fishing.
in writing. i voted in favour of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of senegal to create a new framework for cooperation between the parties. one of the main reasons why i voted this way is the equality of conditions for eu fleets, stating that the senegalese side undertakes not to grant more favourable conditions to fleets other than those covered by the agreement, whose vessels have the same characteristics and operate on the same species. i also particularly appreciated the fact that the new agreement contains detailed clauses on the suspension of the protocol in the event of human rights violations and failure to respect the commitments made by the parties against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft council decision and its implementing protocol on the conclusion of a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of senegal. i believe that this cooperation is beneficial for both sides, because it would allow the eu to supply the european market with high quality fishery products, since these stocks are available off the coast of senegal, while the african country, which receives the financial compensation, would benefit economically and promote a dynamic fishing industry. the agreement also creates new jobs for citizens of both partners, promotes a sustainable fisheries policy and provides for specific measures to step up the fight against illegal fishing. only through a transparent fisheries policy and good governance can we meet the demand from the european market and at the same time ensure the conservation of fisheries resources.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of senegal and the implementation protocol thereto. taking into account the opportunities for the senegalese economy to prosper through better exploitation of available stocks, in accordance with the principles of sustainable fisheries and best practices in the sector, the new agreement and protocol are in the interests of both parties. in addition, the satellite vessel monitoring system and the cooperation between the eu and the republic of senegal on vessel control and monitoring in senegalese waters will help the local authorities to step up the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. in view of the increased demand for raw material for the canning industries in senegal, union flagged fishing vessels would also have a great opportunity to increase their economic activity in the region. this would also help local seafarers, who will be part of the crews of eu vessels under the provisions of the protocol.
in writing. the new sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of senegal will serve the interests of both parties involved. the republic of senegal and the european union will create new jobs. the port of dakar and the fishing industry will benefit and develop from this partnership. in addition, the vessel monitoring system via satellite will monitor vessels in senegalese waters and help the local authorities to step up the fight against illegal and unregulated fishing. for these reasons i have decided to support the new partnership agreement with the republic of senegal.
in writing. the fisheries sector is one of the eu's biggest failures. the vertical management in brussels and the still unresolved and very topical demands from our fisheries sector should come before anything else.
in writing. - i give my vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the council decision on the new fisheries agreement between the european union and senegal. i believe that this is a balanced agreement, which continues the fruitful relationship between europe and the african country and which takes account of many considerations of social and environmental sustainability, as the committee on development of the european parliament has also stressed.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of mrs nicolai's report because i believe it will provide the basis for renewed cooperation between the eu and senegal. the agreement will promote a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in senegal's fishing zones, in the interests of both parties. relations between the european union and the republic of senegal in the fisheries sector are governed by protocols signed between the two states on 1 june 1981. one of the principles underlying the protocol concerns the establishment of equal conditions for the union fleets as compared with fleets from other territories. the agreement also contains detailed clauses on the suspension and/or termination of the protocol in the event of human rights violations and failure to respect the commitments made by the parties against illegal fishing.
in writing. relations between the european union and the republic of senegal in the fisheries sector started on 1 june 1981 and ended in 2006. the renewal of this agreement aims at creating a new framework for cooperation between the european union and the republic of senegal. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. relations between the european union and the republic of senegal in the fisheries sector are governed by protocols signed between the two states on 1 june 1981. in 2006, these protocols expired. in this context, the council authorised the european commission to renegotiate the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with the african country for a period of five years. one of the principles underlying the protocol concerns the establishment of equal conditions for the union fleets as compared with fleets from other territories. the agreement also contains detailed clauses on the suspension and/or termination of the protocol in the event of human rights violations and non-compliance with commitments against illegal fishing. i voted in favour of the document because i believe it will provide the basis for renewed cooperation between the eu and senegal. it will also promote a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in senegal's fishing zones, in the interests of both parties.
in writing. we believe that the new partnership agreement between the european union and senegal is a great opportunity because, by promoting the interests of both parties, it represents a valuable instrument to support an increasingly sustainable fisheries and the development and use of best practices in the sector. we are confident, for example, that the new satellite vessel monitoring system and the cooperation between the european union and the republic of senegal will help the local authorities to step up the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. in view of the increased demand for raw materials for the canning industries in senegal, european fishing vessels will also have a great opportunity to increase their economic activity in the region. this would also help local seafarers, who will be part of the crews of eu vessels under the provisions of the protocol.
in writing. there are opportunities for the senegalese economy to thrive through better exploitation of available stocks, in accordance with the principles of sustainable fishing and best practices in the sector. the satellite vessel monitoring system and the cooperation between the eu and the republic of senegal on vessel control and monitoring in senegalese waters will help the local authorities to step up the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the commission notes that the union fleet is not only the largest in the world, but also the largest in the world. the fish stocks available and the prospect of future cooperation for other fish species, as well as the opportunity to develop the local fisheries sector in partnership with eu vessels and to supply the european market with quality fishery products, are elements that make the partnership agreement and its protocol of interest to both parties. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. the conclusion of this agreement creates a new framework for cooperation between the european union and the republic of senegal. one of the most important principles of the agreement provides for a level playing field for eu fleets by committing the senegalese counterpart not to grant more favourable conditions to fleets other than those specifically indicated in the agreement. vessels must have all the same characteristics and must operate on the same species. i hope that this agreement will lead to a fair understanding that will help the country to develop and that, at the same time, attention will be paid to the conservation and sustainable exploitation of existing fish stocks.
in writing. - i chose to vote against because i think the fisheries agreements between the eu and senegal are fundamentally disappointing.
in writing. i have decided to support the partnership agreement and its protocol which establish a new framework for cooperation between the european union and the republic of senegal in the fisheries sector. i think it is essential that the senegalese side has been assured that it will not grant more favourable conditions to fleets than those provided for in the agreement. the presence of detailed clauses will also ensure the possibility of suspending the protocol in the event of non-compliance with commitments made by both parties against illegal fishing and in the event of human rights violations. there are real development opportunities for the local senegalese fisheries sector, which, in partnership with eu vessels, will have the opportunity both to exploit available stocks in a better and more sustainable way and to supply the european market with quality fishery products.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe must send an important political signal, a strong warning, a strong condemnation, even to those whom it considers its allies and who stand by it in the fight against terrorism. i voted in favour of this because i want to make it clear that europe is not going to be part of it. do not be complicit in the terrible torture that is justified by a war on terror. torture is not our weapon to defeat terrorism. the news from the us senate report on the cia is literally horrifying. i would add, however, that europe is also full of secret prisons where torture is practised. we must first demand respect for fundamental rights. one last note, that's scary too. what's even more worrying is that after the scandal, when asked if these methods were justified in the united states, 58 percent of respondents said yes.
in writing. although the resolution offers good ideas, i think that it is, on the whole, unconvincing and unbalanced. for these reasons i have abstained.
in writing. — i voted in favour because i consider human rights violations to be horrible and the perpetrators must be condemned.
in writing. i abstained. the resolution has some elements which are acceptable, but it is not convincing because it does not take account of the reality in which the secret services must actually operate.
in writing. today i voted in favour of the resolution on the us senate report on the use of torture by the cia and i can only endorse the principle that the essential cornerstone of the rule of law is respect for fundamental rights. as i have already said, the techniques of controlled drowning, as well as the use of torture and other inhuman or degrading treatment, do not deserve comment, but only pity for the prisoner, whoever the criminal may be. i therefore join in condemning the repeated action of parliament on the cia's programme of secret detention and extraordinary rendition, and reaffirming that counter-terrorism policies cannot be pursued without at the same time safeguarding the principle of accountability. i urge the competent american authorities to publish the report in its entirety, without further revisions and/or omissions. i am convinced that the european union, with the decisive support of the commission, must have an internal strategy to protect the fundamental rights that are the result of investigative activities, even if they are anti-terrorist.
in writing. the cia has been implicated in numerous human rights violations in recent years, including on european soil (it is estimated that up to 2006 at least 39 prisoners were interrogated using techniques such as sleep deprivation, waterboarding and exposure to cold). we strongly condemn the conduct of illegal interrogations and any other violation of human rights by the cia on the territory of the union and we also consider it right to continue the current investigations to verify the presence of secret prisons, facilitating the prosecution of those who have been guilty of using illegal techniques of interrogation and detention.
in writing. i voted against the us senate report on the use of torture by the cia because i did not consider acceptable paragraph 8 of the motion for a resolution (b8-0098/2015) which calls on the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs to resume the investigation into 'alleged cases of the cia's transporting and illegal detention of prisoners to european countries'. it is not a matter for the european parliament, especially in view of the implications for internal security and the fact that, in order to be able to go into it in depth, it should have access to investigative documents and other judicial documents which should remain secret for a while longer. my vote also comes from my confidence in strong cooperation between the united states of america and the european union in various fields, including the fight against terrorism, based on the common shared values of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of the us senate summary report on the torture practices of the central intelligence agency (cia). the american spy agency has used illegal methods and cruel, inhuman and degrading practices against subjects who, even if they were potential terrorists, are still human beings. the interrogation methods reinforced with waterboarding, sleep deprivation, rectal water pumps and leg injuries are methods incompatible with the values underlying a democratic state. president obama's commitment to the closure of guantanamo prison is an important step towards improving the situation and respect for human rights. i support a policy of direct cooperation in the fight against terrorism involving all international actors, in compliance with international obligations and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. the european union must strongly condemn any form of torture or ill-treatment of detainees, including in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. i could only vote in favour of this resolution. respect for fundamental rights is an essential element for successful counter-terrorism policies and no emergency can ever justify the use of illegal practices. i express my deepest condemnation of the gruesome interrogation practices that have characterized these counter-terrorism operations. the use of torture should be strongly condemned.
in writing. - the us senate report on the cia's use of torture leaves us stunned and horrified. there is nothing that can justify the use of torture on human beings, even those who have been guilty of the worst crimes. it is a principle of civilization which we must defend vigorously and from which we can no longer turn back. while the self-criticism of the us senate is appreciated, we cannot ignore the human rights violations committed by the cia. on the other hand, we cannot accept any justification for torture of actual or alleged terrorists, as useful if not necessary to gather information for national security. there is nothing, in peace or in war, that can justify torture, which not only violates the inalienable right to the integrity of the human being, but which can in no way be considered as a tool for the search for truth. the european union has a duty to lift the veil of secrecy and omissions which have covered the cooperation of the member states in the actions carried out by the cia on european territory. the european union commits itself to taking a firm position against the findings of the us senate inquiry.
in writing. they condemn torture without question. but i cannot support the resolution in its entirety, because it has some elements which are acceptable but also others which are not relevant to reality.
in writing. - i supported this document because i consider it important to promote democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, not only in the context of the european union's internal policies but also in its role as a global actor.
in writing. parliament strongly condemned the cia's secret detention programme promoted by the united states as it involved multiple human rights violations such as the use of torture and other inhumane treatment. europe must send an important political signal and demand respect for fundamental rights. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report by the us senate on the use of torture by the cia.
in writing. i have supported this document because i believe it is appropriate for the european union, which has always been a champion of human rights and fundamental freedoms, to take a position condemning the cia's programme of surrender and secret detention. i particularly appreciated the reference in the resolution to complacency with regard to the recent measures taken by us president obama in an attempt to close the guantanamo detention centre.
in writing. the european parliament has repeatedly condemned the cia's programme of secret detention and extraordinary rendition, as it has resulted in multiple human rights violations, including the use of torture and other inhuman or degrading treatment. we believe that security and counter-terrorism policies cannot be allowed to ignore respect for international law and human rights in general. in this connection, we welcome the decision of the us senate to publish a summary of its report on the cia detention and interrogation programme, and indeed we encourage its full publication without excessive and unnecessary revisions. we strongly condemn once again the illegal practices of interrogation, extraordinary rendition programmes and secret detention that have been perpetrated and call on the united states to cooperate with all requests from eu member states for information, extradition or effective remedies for victims. we therefore call for the adoption of an internal european union strategy on fundamental rights and we invite the commission to propose the adoption of this strategy and a related action plan.
in writing. - the us war on terror has been a serious violation of human rights, international law, humanitarian law and the rule of law as a whole. the united states, the 'exporting' country of democracy, has managed to act with impunity in a world situation characterized by unilateralism. the silent collaboration of many european countries in so-called "redentons", illegal transports and enforced disappearances has led to a black page in contemporary history. heavy torture, authorized by senior cia and us government officials to extract information needed to thwart the terrorist attack, was made possible by the proclamation of the state of emergency and the successive acts under the bush presidency. i conclude my statement by recalling a rigorous analysis by cesare beccaria, who in 1764 in his book "de crimini e delle pene" (on crimes and punishments) stated, among other things, the inherent incongruity of the torture technique, since it does not respect the principle of the presumption of innocence, is not useful in the search for the truth and leads, in most cases, to false confessions.
in writing. parliament has repeatedly called for the fight against terrorism to be conducted with respect for human dignity, human rights and fundamental freedoms, including in the context of international cooperation in this field. parliament strongly condemned the cia's us-sponsored programme of surrender and secret detention, which involved numerous human rights violations. relations between the eu and the us are based on a strong partnership and close cooperation in various fields, based on the shared common values of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. on 3 december 2014, after six years of investigation, the united states senate select committee on intelligence released a summary of its study of the cia's interrogation and detention program, and the report's findings suggest that the cia used enhanced interrogation techniques prohibited by u.s. law and international treaties prohibiting the use of torture, to which the united states is a signatory. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. while i am a firm believer that the fight against terrorism must be undertaken with determination and resolve, i also believe that it is imperative to act with respect for human dignity, human rights and fundamental freedoms on the basis of the eu treaties. the us senate report concluded that the cia had used interrogation techniques which were prohibited by both us law and international treaties and which should therefore be strongly condemned. it is essential, and that is why i am voting in favour, that there should be a fair and adequate process of responsibility-taking by all. it is of the utmost importance if we are to maintain the confidence of citizens in democratic institutions and have legitimate security policies based on the rule of law.
in writing. - i abstained because the resolution has elements that are acceptable, but it is completely devoid of the reality of the secret services and their modus operandi.
in writing. it is crucial to condemn the cia's secret detention and action programme which has resulted in multiple human rights violations (including torture, kidnappings, detention without trial) and it is equally crucial to shed light on the complicity of eu member states in this programme and on suspected corruption practices. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution which, in addition to condemning these actions, calls on the european commission to propose the adoption of an eu strategy on fundamental rights and instructs parliament's committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, the committee on foreign affairs and the subcommittee on human rights to resume the inquiry into 'alleged cases of transport and illegal detention of prisoners in european countries by the cia' and to inform the european parliament within one year.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent terrorist attacks in europe have not only caused innocent victims but also created a tremendous sense of insecurity and fear among our citizens. i voted in favour of this resolution so that the european institutions and the member states can use all the instruments at their disposal effectively to protect citizens. we are strengthening security and intelligence services to monitor suspicious groups, but these are counterproductive measures which end up criminalising an entire community and offending muslims who have nothing to do with or even sympathy for al qaeda, or those who are undermining freedom, a principle which is the basis of the european union. the west must do everything it can to prevent the attacks and stop at least seven conflicts that are raging from pakistan to somalia to nigeria, as well as in iraq, syria, yemen and libya, from which sparks could spread to europe. this is the top priority.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, more than 13 years after 11 september 2001 and the attacks in paris last january, the european union is once again confronted with the threat of terrorism. today, as then, i believe that the best response we can give is to show that the european union is truly united in the fight against all forms of terrorism. in recent years, member states have done a great deal to try to prevent such attacks, but i believe that much more needs to be done. we have legislative instruments and advanced cooperation structures, but i am convinced that we still have work to do to make these instruments really effective and efficient. we must be aware that in order to combat the threat of terrorism in the best possible way, the member states must cooperate more actively with europol and eurojust. only through genuine and loyal cooperation at the judicial and intelligence levels, with the logistical and infrastructural support of the european union, can we win this battle. the resolution proposed today is a step in the right direction and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. the resolution under vote offers good ideas but in many parts it remains ineffective and not to be shared. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on counter-terrorism measures, in which parliament condemns in the strongest terms the recent terrorist acts in paris and calls on the european union to step up the fight against all forms of radicalisation and violent extremism. on the one hand, by making more efficient use of the platforms, databases and alert systems that already exist at european level, while respecting free movement in the schengen area and through a clear and common definition of so-called 'foreign fighters', and on the other hand, by making use of a renewed european strategy that cooperates closely with the third countries most involved, reviewing the european neighbourhood policy, and promoting respect for international human rights standards by all regional partners, including through the european external action service (eeas). the important spirit of unity which was manifested between governments and in the squares of european cities in january must be followed by measures and initiatives which help to strengthen the sense of security of european citizens.
in writing. late, ineffective, inconclusive, obvious and shaky. this is europe facing terrorism. it proposes measures dictated by the pathos of the moment (as after the events in paris), but which are soon forgotten, if not even applied or even archived. fighting illegal immigration, which the eu pretends not to see and which brings with it, besides desperate people, potential warriors of allah. restore bilateral agreements with countries of origin of illegal migrants. suspend the schengen area: the european borders, not only the external ones but also the internal ones, are a maze, passing through everything from people to guns, without the slightest control. these are just some of the practical measures to prevent terrorism. but this vile europe, rather than react, prefers to deal with human rights and ignore the danger of islamic terrorism.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution because in this particular emergency situation europe is exposed to numerous security threats. therefore new anti-terrorism measures are fundamental for our security.
in writing. i voted against. the resolution reiterates that freedom of movement is not affected and merely calls for greater police cooperation to combat terrorism. weak, useless and negative.
in writing. i voted today in favour of the european parliament's resolution on counter-terrorism measures. the paris attacks have shown that the european union is becoming increasingly concerned about the need for a common security policy. in its resolution adopted today, parliament expressed its condolences to the victims of the recent terrorist attacks in paris and stressed that the fight against terrorism is a global challenge and that the european union, together with other major regional actors and partners, should play a leading role in tackling this global threat. member states should therefore increase the volume of information exchanges relevant to the fight against terrorism through the effective use of union databases and through full cooperation with specialised agencies, in particular eurojust and europol, with the aim of providing the best possible support to ongoing investigations into terrorist attacks in europe. at the same time, new economic and social policies must be promoted that mitigate the exclusion and social segregation that give rise to resentments that are often exploited by violent extremists.
in writing. we reiterate the need for greater information coordination between security services at european level, especially in relation to terrorist organisations. the paris attackers were known to law enforcement and the failure to share essential information facilitated the operations of the cell responsible for the charlie hebdo attacks. we are convinced that the problem of so-called foreign fighters is closely linked to the marginalisation and discrimination in the poorest neighbourhoods of our cities, which are in danger of becoming incubators for terrorist movements. for this reason, the best and most effective counterterrorism measure is the development of programmes that increase social inclusion.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that terrorism must be fought by all means and in all ways, because by undermining the security of each and every one of us it undermines our ability to live our lives freely. i therefore believe that a comprehensive approach to the fight against radicalisation and terrorism is needed, aimed at strengthening social cohesion, crime prevention and police operations. the serious terrorist acts that have taken place on the territory of the union since the attacks of 11 september have had a huge impact on the sense of security among eu citizens and therefore i believe that combating the trafficking of firearms must be a priority for us. in particular, cooperation on information exchange mechanisms needs to be further strengthened. finally, i would like to express my condolences to the victims of the recent terrorist attacks in paris and around the world, and to their families.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on counter-terrorism measures for a number of reasons. since the responsibility for european security policy is shared between europe and the member states, security measures aimed at safeguarding civil society must necessarily be implemented, firstly because the way in which terrorist activity is carried out has changed, with autonomous cells becoming increasingly important at the expense of a centralised organisation, and secondly because the modus operandi of terrorist attacks has become essentially militarised. the priority in prevention activity should be to address the problem of foreign fighters, i.e. individuals who move to a state other than their country of residence or citizenship in order to plan or prepare a terrorist attack, or in order to provide or receive training, also of a terrorist nature. member states and europe should commit to taking all necessary measures to protect european citizens from the terrorist threat and to step up their work on preventing radicalisation by engaging in dialogue with communities, especially muslim communities, and civil society.
in writing. to create deradicalization, strengthen controls at the external borders of the schengen area, toughen existing rules and improve the exchange of information between member states and with european agencies such as europol and eurojust. i voted in favour of the resolution adopted at the february plenary session in strasbourg, in order to protect the eu from terrorist attacks. the house also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the countries of the region. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. the fight against terrorism must respect the privacy of all european citizens.
in writing. - the fight against international terrorism is one of the european union's priorities, a global challenge to which europe can only respond effectively in a concerted manner. recently we have witnessed an escalation of the threat: terrorism can now be tied to any goal, ideology and fundamentalism. it can be bound to a territory and constitute the armed arm of national liberation movements, or it can have the characteristics of a transnational terrorist network. its power has increased due to several conditions, not least the willingness of terrorists to commit suicide and technological progress. that is why i, together with other colleagues, have proposed the joint resolution on counter-terrorism measures, because cooperation with third countries considered as priorities (north africa, the middle east and south-east asia) and good public administration through cooperation programmes, assistance and intercultural dialogue are of vital importance. it is not a question of waging war against an invisible enemy, which cannot be defeated by military means, but of adopting coherent lines of action which link various policies and are capable of guiding a long-term strategy. only by undermining the underlying reasons for the proliferation of terrorism can we hope to eradicate extremism in the long run.
in writing. the international community's response to terrorism must be based on respect for international law, human rights and international humanitarian law. the threat to peace and security which they pose must not therefore be used as a political tool to call into question such precious achievements as freedom of movement. such a large-scale mobilization of foreign terrorist fighters to conflict areas represents a new and destabilizing phenomenon. i believe that strategies are needed to identify the cultural and sociological context in which the combatants operate and, as a result, to counter recruitment and radicalisation. i strongly believe that civil society organisations, supported by state agencies, can play a key role in formulating scalable strategies that strengthen a multilateral and integrated approach to tackling this phenomenon.
in writing. - in recent decades we have seen a surge in the production of legislation, both international and national, on terrorism. as a european parliament, we have a duty to participate in this process of nomopoetics, which is necessary for a number of reasons. first of all, there is an escalation of the threat: terrorist action can now be linked to any possible objective, ideology and fundamentalism. it may be indifferently bound to a territory or a nation and constitute the armed wing of national liberation movements, or it may have the characteristics of a transnational terrorist network. the power of terrorist acts, then, has increased due to a number of conditions, not least the willingness of terrorists to commit suicide and technological progress. the states have lost their "monopoly on the threat": the challenge comes from individuals and networks operating at sub-state level and using materials and resources that are beyond national monopoly control. it has therefore become difficult to identify which state has the right to take action against terrorists. the criteria for establishing a link between the exercise of jurisdiction have become elusive, and tend to be reduced to one: the nationality of the victims. for these reasons, together with a pressing security question, we have proposed this joint resolution on counter-terrorism measures with other colleagues.
in writing. this resolution cannot be supported by me because it does not provide a political response worthy of the name to the cause of fighting terrorism.
in writing. in these days when the priority is to restore the security of our citizens in practice, this resolution wishes to affirm the full support of the whole european parliament for the implementation by the council of essential instruments for the fight against terrorism such as the proposal on the passenger name record (pnr), the improvement of the exchange of information, the strengthening of controls in the areas outside the schengen area, and efforts in terms of preventing radicalisation. of course, a proper balance between security and fundamental freedoms must be preserved. with this text we have reached a good compromise in this respect, overcoming in fact some of the ideological positions which have slowed down many security-related dossiers in recent years.
in writing. - i vote in favour of adopting the anti-terrorism measures set out in the joint motion for a resolution. the european union, still wounded by the latest events of january 2015, calls on the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, the 2011 resolution on the counter-terrorism strategy and, above all, the new internal security strategy of the european union of 17 december 2014, to respond with concrete and effective measures to the global challenge of fighting international terrorism, both through prevention and re-education and through control and punitive actions: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
in writing. the broad support of this house for the resolution is a confirmation of our commitment to the fight against terrorism, a challenge that is now more than ever global and which requires a global response. this fight must necessarily be fought on several fronts, going back to the root of radicalisation, including educational programmes that promote integration, social inclusion, dialogue, participation, equality, tolerance and intercultural and interreligious dialogue. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on the matter. because it's in social unrest that recruiters find new followers to commit acts of terrorism. that is why we must counter the online incitement to commit terrorist acts and stop the phenomenon of so-called "foreign fighters". in this resolution we strongly condemn terrorism and call for an all-embracing approach to the phenomenon, without, however, sacrificing the fundamental values of our europe and our freedom.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because it is the result of intensive negotiations between the various political groups in the european parliament on a sensitive subject such as terrorism. it is not only an imminent threat but also a problem for all european citizens and i believe that it must be tackled through a shared approach. the italian government has taken very important anti-terrorism measures in this regard. it is clear, however, that a very high state of alert must be maintained.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on counter-terrorism measures. it is of paramount importance that the european union, its member states and its partner countries base their strategy for combating international terrorism on the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution, which is the result of intensive negotiations between the various political groups in the european parliament, because i believe that the assembly of which i am a member needs to express a shared and multilateral view on the measures needed to counter the looming terrorist threat. the latter is a problem for all european citizens, regardless of their nationality, and must therefore be tackled at european level, through a shared, far-sighted and responsible approach. a document of intent, therefore, which would cross the boundaries of political affiliation, was entirely desirable.
in writing. we consider terrorism, radicalisation and violent extremism to be the main threats to our security and freedom. with this resolution we wish to reaffirm our commitment to respect for freedom of expression, fundamental rights, democracy, tolerance and the rule of law. we believe that the eu, its member states and all partner countries must adopt their own strategy to combat international terrorism on the basis of respect for fundamental rights. we call on the member states to improve the exchange of information, through effective use of eu databases and through greater cooperation with specialised agencies (eurojust/europol). we are convinced that the fight against terrorism is a global challenge and that the european union, together with other major regional actors, should play a leading role in tackling this threat at the global level. we reiterate the need for a coherent, consolidated and proactive common foreign policy, with a strong focus on cooperation with third countries which could become valuable allies in the fight against terrorism. we need to strengthen political dialogue with the different religious communities and consider the fight against terrorism as a fundamental part of other policies, development and social and economic inclusion.
in writing. the eu and its member states have a shared responsibility to ensure the safety and freedom of european citizens and that, in order to achieve freedom and justice, counter-terrorism measures should always be based on the principles of necessity, proportionality and respect for fundamental rights. the free movement of persons within the schengen area is one of the most important fruits of european integration, and our external borders are in fact a common external border. the issue of 'foreign fighters' is not a new phenomenon but has grown dramatically in size, posing a very serious threat to the security of eu citizens. the need for a counter-terrorism pact based on a multi-layered approach that also boosts cohesion and inclusion by promoting political and religious tolerance, analyses and counterbalances online incitement to commit terrorist acts, and ensures strong judicial action. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. in recent weeks we have been experiencing a strong sense of powerlessness in the major european cities. after the shocking attacks in paris last january, the european union is faced with great and serious threats which can only be defeated by strong solidarity between the member states, their police and intelligence forces. a european control system is vital to ensure the safety of our citizens. the eu has two agencies, europol and eurojust, which must be used to the full by the member states in these areas, because of their skills and professionalism. we can only guarantee security with more europe, not less europe, just as only europe can guarantee a very high level of protection of human and personal rights, which are often put on the back burner in these emergency situations. as the resolution rightly states in its paragraphs, a strong neighbourhood policy towards the southern shore of the mediterranean and the middle east, together with strong action on inclusive social policies in our peripheries, where there is a growing hostility towards the west in some communities, are also fundamental steps towards ensuring security in europe.
in writing. in the light of the recent tragic events in paris, it is crucial for all of us that the european union is united and determined in combating the terrorist threat, and that it does so both by countering the preparation of attacks on eu territory and by addressing and seeking to eliminate the roots of terrorism. it is important that they be defended, and that the security of citizens, the defence of the fundamental values of freedom, democracy and human rights be given the highest priority. we must fight by all means the radicalisation that leads to violent extremism, and we must seek to dismantle the financial support for terrorist organisations by means of a resolute judicial action. in addition, as the resolution also states, checks at the external borders must be increased, with more careful checks on travel documents and greater attention to the categories and sectors at risk.
in writing. finally, parliament adopted a common position on measures to be taken to combat terrorism, in particular the problems of foreign fighters, their financing, the role of the internet and social media in their recruitment and their ease of movement. i voted in favour of the resolution also because the text finally gave the green light for a concrete resumption of work on the rapid adoption of the proposal for a directive on the use of reservation code data (eu pnr directive).
in writing. despite the fact that the amendments we proposed as efdd did not pass, i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution. the eu's counter-terrorism measures should also include measures to prevent facilitation and to prevent inaction by the authorities concerned. the union's external action against terrorism should also be primarily preventive by strengthening intelligence actions. the union should also support the development of a comprehensive and coherent approach to the fight against terrorism, including the development of a comprehensive and coherent approach to the fight against terrorism.
in writing. terrorism is a growing threat to international peace, security and democracy. just think of the brutal attack on the satirical magazine charlie hebdo on january 7, 2015. it is therefore all the more necessary for the european union and its member states to base their integrated strategy for combating international terrorism, which must also be based on respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights. i believe that we should also aim at external action in the international fight against terrorism, aimed at preventing and combating, for example, the illegal trafficking of arms, from which we must not forget that the western countries in particular derive great profits. member states should make better use of existing instruments in the schengen context and enhance security cooperation with third countries, in particular in the southern neighbourhood. a united european union response to the challenge of international terrorism has become indispensable and must be pursued together by all european governments. it will certainly require an effort to share more information, for example on passengers and air traffic, but a delicate balance between privacy and security is certainly needed to meet this challenge that affects us all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we know that today almost 3 billion people, that is to say about 40% of the world's population, are on the net. europe, through the digital agenda, considers internet access as a right. the internet governance forum, conceived in accordance with the principles of multilateralism, multistakeholderism, democracy and transparency, is a significant moment to deepen the most important issues but also the critical points of the network. the last meeting, however, has brought out all the contradictions. there is much debate, for example, that the decision to hold this important event established turkey as the host nation, a country that still persecutes 29 twitter users for simply expressing criticism of the government. the igf must keep alive the debate and discussion on key issues such as net neutrality and the digital divide, but it must not forget that the right to freedom of speech must be guaranteed above all on the web.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you of the importance of the internet in our lives, both as a means of communication and as a channel of information, as a source of innovation, growth, democracy and pluralism. at the same time, there is a growing need to protect internet freedoms in all their dimensions, while not neglecting the necessary security requirements. to this end, i value the input of the various stakeholders involved in the internet governance forum, which brings together not only national and international institutions but also other actors who, in supporting civil society demands, protect and promote the free and independent use of the internet. the important role played by the internet governance forum, including the participation of the commission and the parliament, therefore leads to the need to support the continuation of its activities while respecting freedom of expression and at the same time the necessary security requirements. that is why i voted in favour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of renewing the mandate of the internet governance forum, although i would have preferred that the rights of minors were more explicitly included among the fundamental rights, which are also mentioned as necessary, fundamental and to be respected. i believe yesterday was the international day for a safer internet. the debate on this subject is very lively and tomorrow we will hear the commission report on the application of the directive on sexual abuse and child pornography on the internet. it will also be important to present a resolution from parliament, but i hope that the global forum will also take the opportunity to look at what are the real challenges today to a dilemma which must certainly include the elements of freedom and the protection of privacy, but i hope not only that of adults but also that of children. we are faced with real forms of deception, grooming, solicitation and exploitation, protected by anonymity, of minors and children, and we are also faced with the fact that the regulation we have launched has not yet been approved, unfortunately, because some member states are still not in agreement and therefore the right to be forgotten for minors as well as the protection of the youngest by their parents in relation to the social forums have not yet been approved. for these reasons, i hope that the global forum will not forget the rights of children, which are not minor rights.
in writing. a resolution on the renewal of the mandate of the internet governance forum was voted on today. i voted in favour of the renewal of the mandate because it is a positive thing. in addition, both the explicit reference to net neutrality and the internet as an open and free tool and a place where fundamental rights and freedoms are not negotiable are to be welcomed. i think, however, that some aspects should be stressed more. in particular, as a member of the committee on culture, i would have appreciated an explicit reference to the free and full sharing of knowledge and the free circulation of culture. another aspect which deserved to be emphasized was the strengthening of the delegation sent by the european parliament. the latter, in my view, must play a central role in view of the representation of the citizens by the members of parliament. finally, it was necessary to emphasise more clearly that the european union must be able to speak with one voice on such a global issue. the governance of the internet is a fundamental and central issue to be addressed at european level, given that the internet is global and we are living in an increasingly digital world, where homo sapiens is transforming into homo digitalis.
in writing. the text of the resolution is well thought out and worthy of support, and i have therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. today i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the renewal of the mandate of the fgi (internet governance forum). the potential and added value of the internet lies in its dynamism, which must, however, respect the rights of online users, increasingly ensuring access for all regardless of geographical area. europe is today facing a very fragmented environment, and we must therefore make every effort at national, european and international level to ensure that these rights are extended to the fullest. for these reasons, and given the economic and social importance of the internet, governance and rules for this tool must be the result of a public and inclusive debate. the forum has stimulated an interesting democratic, transparent and multi-stakeholder dialogue in the past and i therefore support its renewal.
in writing. — i voted no because i personally consider that the internet governance forum did not execute efficiently its mandate.
in writing. i voted in favour. the internet must be regulated for the safety of citizens and the debate on this must be carried forward.
in writing. today i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the renewal of the mandate of the internet governance forum. the internet governance forum is an important forum for discussion on technological standards and the proper functioning of the internet, which has been held annually for almost ten years, involving institutions, companies and civil society. the internet has become a fundamental communication tool with a huge impact on society as a whole and has the potential to become one of the most powerful resources for successfully addressing the social, cultural, educational and economic challenges facing a globalised society. considering that the forum represents a moment of decisive reflection on internet governance, in particular with regard to its proper functioning, equal access, security and technological standards, i voted in favour of renewing and supporting the forum.
in writing. we vote in favour of renewing the mandate of the internet governance forum. net neutrality and the protection of personal data are the essential basis for an open platform that allows free expression, freedom of information and above all freedom of criticism in a simple and protected way, as these freedoms represent the very pillars of modern democracy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the renewal of the mandate of the internet governance forum, given that the internet is the backbone of the digital single market. i am convinced of the importance of continuing to strengthen efforts to ensure the legal protection of net neutrality as an essential prerequisite for safeguarding freedom of information and expression, fostering growth and employment through the creation of internet-related innovation and business opportunities, and promoting and protecting cultural and linguistic diversity in a way that is best for all. although the igf does not adopt formal conclusions, i believe it is the responsibility of the european union to increase the impact of exchanges in the framework of the policy debate, as this provides a positive and concrete context for defining the future of the internet on the basis of a multi-stakeholder approach.
in writing. the internet is a complex and revolutionary ecosystem today, which has brought many changes to the everyday lives of citizens, revolutionizing the way we communicate and exchange information, and profoundly affecting the social, political and economic sectors, thus making the labour market more efficient and improving the supply of goods and services. with its potential to promote sustainable social and economic development, the internet has thus far enabled a continuous exchange of knowledge and constantly updated information, but above all it has promoted virtuous mechanisms of transparency and good governance that often clash with the will of some states to control, censor and monitor the web and its users, as well as citizens. i therefore support the renewal of the igf's mandate and the strengthening of the resources at its disposal, because i believe in democratic, transparent and multi-stakeholder political dialogue.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the renewal of the mandate of the internet governance forum, where representatives of industry and civil society annually discuss technological standards and the proper functioning of the internet. it is the responsibility of the european union to give the forum the right importance in the forthcoming political discussions. in adopting the resolution, the european parliament called on member states, the commission and all stakeholders to further strengthen the sustainability of the multi-stakeholder model by making stakeholders more accountable at national, regional and international level. it is essential to reiterate the legal protection of net neutrality, which is an indispensable prerequisite for safeguarding freedom of information and expression, and for stimulating, inter alia, the sustainable sharing of the common good and fostering greater participation of citizens in decision-making. finally, the economic and social importance of online user data, which must be defended, and the need to ensure a level playing field for businesses operating on the web, were underlined.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the renewal of the mandate of the internet governance forum, of which i am a co-signer. the internet has become a virtual agora, which is daily present in the historic squares of our cities. the growing importance of the internet has not yet been matched by adequate governance, ensuring its transparency, full democracy, security and neutrality. i am therefore convinced that the eu, including through the renewal of the mandate of this forum promoted at the united nations, must play an increasingly leading role in international fora and work actively with the main partners in the world for a deep reorganization of the management and governance structure of the internet that is stable and effective.
in writing. - the internet is a multifaceted, multifunctional tool with many facets which are difficult to reduce to unity. the positive effects of the internet on the dissemination of information, the circulation of good practice and, last but not least, the promotion of the process of democratic participation from below, are now indisputable. at the same time, there are concerns about the use of the network by criminal or terrorist organisations, as well as fraudulent or criminal use against the most vulnerable and defenceless, such as minors and the elderly. in this context, the question of human rights is also of particular importance: the internet is now a right that must be guaranteed to every person. the latter is closely linked to freedom of expression, which is often threatened by restrictions on access to the internet or the sharing of information content imposed in some countries, including european countries. for these and other reasons, which are reflected in the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the internet global forum, i believe that this initiative launched by the united nations in 2006 to promote a joint and multilateral political dialogue on internet governance should be welcomed.
in writing. support is renewed for parliament to continue to participate with a strong and politically inclusive delegation in future igf meetings.
in writing. - i voted with conviction on the joint resolution on the mandate of the internet governance forum. i believe that a coherent and comprehensive european approach is really needed to promote the network and the great opportunities it offers in a free and open way. the internet governance forum must remain an inclusive and open place, with the aim of involving all the main actors of the network and empowering them towards common commitments: the principle of net neutrality, respect for freedom of expression online, data protection, access to knowledge and information.
in writing. - through this joint motion for a resolution, the european parliament is calling on the other european institutions to continue to fund the internet governance forum (igf). the igf was established by the united nations in july 2006. its mandate was renewed by the general assembly in 2010 for the period 2011-2015. since its establishment, the forum has fostered a transparent and multilateral debate on internet governance, and has helped to enhance cooperation between institutional stakeholders and members of civil society.
in writing. i voted in favour of renewing the mandate of the internet governance forum. the renewal of the internet governance forum, which was launched by the un conference on the world summit on the information society, is an opportunity for the european parliament to underline the importance of the network as a pillar of the digital single market. improving access to the internet worldwide is essential, as the internet promotes innovation, growth, trade, democracy, cultural diversity and human rights. the internet must be regulated for the safety of citizens.
in writing. the internet governance forum (igf) was formally established by the united nations in july 2006. its mandate was renewed by the general assembly in 2010 for the period 2011-2015. the european parliament, through this joint motion for a resolution, is calling on the other community institutions to continue to finance the igf. the european parliament also called on the united nations general assembly to renew the mandate of the forum and to increase the resources available to it. since its inauguration, the forum has fostered a transparent and multilateral debate on internet governance and helped to enhance the level of cooperation between institutional stakeholders and members of civil society. for all these reasons, i have decided to support this document.
in writing. the renewal of the internet governance forum, which was set up by the un conference on the world summit on the information society (wsis) to discuss internet governance issues and, where appropriate, make recommendations to the international community, is an opportunity for the european parliament to underline the importance of the internet as a pillar of the digital single market. there is therefore a need to improve internet access worldwide, as the internet, among other things, promotes innovation, growth, trade, democracy, cultural diversity and human rights. it is equally important to ensure that the forum remains as inclusive as possible, ensuring the constant democratic oversight of the european parliament through its delegations at future forum meetings, so that it contributes effectively to the formulation of a coherent and comprehensive european approach. the collective effort must simultaneously focus on developing legal protection of net neutrality as an essential prerequisite for safeguarding freedom of information and expression, promoting growth and employment, not forgetting the economic and social importance of the rights to privacy and control over one's personal data and the development of appropriate measures to protect minor internet users.
in writing. we appreciate the work of the internet governance forum, which has helped to establish an increasingly democratic, transparent and multi-stakeholder political dialogue. the delegations sent by the european parliament certainly played a key role in promoting european values and in interaction with civil society organisations and representatives of national parliaments present at these events. the internet will play a key role in building a european digital single market and in promoting innovation, growth, trade, democracy, cultural diversity and human rights. for this reason, although the forum does not adopt formal conclusions, we cannot fail to stress the importance of them and to continue to make efforts to ensure the legal protection of net neutrality as an essential prerequisite for safeguarding freedom of information and expression. only then will we be able to really foster growth and jobs, by creating opportunities for innovation and business linked to the internet. the european union will continue to support this multi-stakeholder process, in defence of cultural and linguistic diversity, while contributing to the formulation of a coherent and comprehensive european approach, together with the member states and the commission.
in writing. the internet governance forum (igf) aims to implement the mandate given to it by the world summit on the information society (wsis) to establish a democratic, transparent and multi-stakeholder political dialogue through the organisation of forums. the igf's main role and function is to promote forward-looking discussions on a wide range of internet governance issues and, where appropriate, to make recommendations to the international community. the internet is the backbone of the digital single market and promotes, inter alia, innovation, growth, trade, democracy, cultural diversity and human rights. the main priorities of the european union during the 9th igf held in september 2014 were, inter alia, to extend network access globally, to maintain the internet as a global, open and shared resource, and to reject the idea of state control of the internet. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of renewing the five-year mandate of the internet governance forum because i find it essential that issues concerning the internet, which today, in fact, governs almost every aspect of our lives, are discussed in a transparent and immediate manner. our parliament, through its delegation, will have to continue to dialogue with all the stakeholders involved in order to contribute to this international process by proposing a coherent and comprehensive european approach. with the renewal of the mandate we also hope to see a greater presence and involvement of the eu in governance, which is heavily controlled by the us, whose presence will already be reduced in part by the transfer of internet surveillance functions to a global multi-stakeholder community, on which it will be essential in any case to ensure independence in order to be able to maintain the stability of the internet. we will continue to have to deal with security and privacy issues very carefully, so as to guarantee complete freedom of expression and information, in an environment that protects personal data from any misuse. protections that not only benefit individual citizens, but also ensure that businesses, especially smes, can develop their online potential without risk.
in writing. the internet governance forum, through its fruitful exchanges and multi-stakeholder approach, is helping to lay the foundations for what the future of the network could be. i believe that we need to move towards an open and independent network, protecting and developing net neutrality as a basic principle that can allow, for example, a newly established web company of an entrepreneur to have the same chance of success as the most established corporations, or ensure that the access to a young person's blog is not unfairly slowed down by an internet provider to allow advertisers to make more money. i hope that the european union will commit itself to trying to bring the negotiations to a conclusion and to reach a comprehensive agreement on the new governance of the internet and on rules that can guarantee the neutrality of the network at the interconnection points between the provider and the rest of the internet.
in writing. i voted for the renewal of the mandate of the internet governance forum because through internet governance we have the opportunity to keep the internet as an open place, a place where society has largely rediscovered itself, and to leave the space within the internet to create value, to exploit the trust that the internet fosters, so that the internet is also a place of development and not just, as has often happened lately, a place of snare, a place of insecurity. we have a duty, including through the european parliament's participation in the internet governance forum, to promote real governance.
in writing. i believe that it is essential to renew the mandate of the internet governance forum (igf), as it is the only multi-stakeholder platform for the exchange of ideas on internet governance issues at international level. the forum brings together internet operators, politicians, lawyers and all the various stakeholders in the sector, including civil society. therefore, i voted in favour of this resolution because it not only urges the un assembly to extend the mandate of the igf, to strengthen its resources and its multi-stakeholder approach, but also stresses the need to ensure an open and neutral internet ("net neutrality"), non-discriminatory access to knowledge and the safeguarding of freedom of information and expression.
in writing. i voted in favour of the renewal of the internet governance forum because i consider the issue of internet freedom and the individual right to access the net to be fundamental. i also believe that these issues should be tackled from a political perspective and that the european union, in the mechanisms already in place and in line with what has already been established, must guarantee transparency, freedom and access, for example by stressing that these freedoms are not negotiable, by countering censorship and attempts by some countries to limit connectivity and the availability of information. furthermore, the work of the internet governance forum must be directed towards a network that is as open and independent as possible, a shared resource available to all, including in the context of digital rights, development and sustainable economic recovery. i hope, therefore, that the resolution we have voted represents a further step forward in the protection of individual freedoms and in the protection of the internet as a means of knowledge and participation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint resolution calling for the renewal of the five-year mandate for the internet governance forum because i believe it is appropriate to support the exchange of ideas for networking between operators, policy makers and stakeholders in general that it has been carrying out since 2005. i therefore regret that the position in favour of permanent renewal has not been more widely shared. i think it is essential that we should support the maintenance of a forum for discussion on issues which are becoming increasingly crucial for both our society and our economic fabric. in order to ensure that privacy and personal data are effectively protected in an increasingly digitalised society, or that effective net neutrality is maintained, there needs to be a constant and fruitful dialogue between the regulatory authorities and stakeholders, citizens and businesses, who know better than anyone else the real issues in the sector. this dialogue must necessarily take place in an international context in order to reach universally shared standards.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the horse meat scandal and other cases of food fraud have caused a collapse in consumer confidence and have consequently also caused serious damage to honest producers in the food chain. today europe is called upon to rebuild that confidence, but the right of consumers to know the country of origin of meat used in processed food must not be met by a sharp rise in prices and must not, therefore, generate new demons. importing raw materials is essential for the food industry, especially where domestic production does not meet all needs. along with more information on the origin, consumers should be aware that importing raw materials does not mean lower quality or lower safety. the keywords to be used are therefore 'more security', 'more information' and 'more transparency'.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, labelling the origin of processed meat will be an important step forward, a step forward in protecting the health of consumers, a step forward in combating fraud and counterfeiting. i voted in favour of this because it is in line with a demand for information and transparency from consumers, from european citizens. it will now be up to the commission to translate these indications into a clear rule. we must make it clear that this regulation does not impose any additional costs on consumers. the right to health is a right which cannot be turned into a greater burden. that is why the relationship between labelling and production costs must be carefully studied. that is why we must pay particular attention to small and mediumsized enterprises, which in some cases change suppliers three or four times a year, and we must pay particular attention to products which use more than one type of meat.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the need for greater transparency and traceability of foodstuffs has become a growing and increasing demand of european citizens, especially in the wake of the recent and repeated food fraud, not least that of horse meat. the request of this house, to which i subscribe, that the commission should submit legislative proposals to make it compulsory for the origin of meat used in processed food to be indicated on the labelling of foodstuffs, is in the direction desired by consumers, who should not, however, be burdened with additional costs. the existence of strict standards may not protect us from fraud, but i am sure it will help to detect it and, above all, provide consumers with the information they need to make a more informed and safer choice of products. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. according to a study commissioned by the european commission in june 2013, 90% of citizens surveyed believe it is important that the origin of processed meat contained in food is visible on the label. today, manufacturers of processed foods have the choice of whether or not to indicate the origin of the ingredients in their processed products. for example, lasagna made in italy may contain meat and other products from other european and non-european countries. the information thus promoted is not transparent and, in our view, does not correspond to what consumers are asking for. we believe that, in order to make an informed choice and to avoid food fraud, meat and other ingredients in italian products should be clearly labelled, as is the case with fresh beef. for the reasons mentioned above, i voted in favour of the resolution tabled by the envi committee.
in writing. i believe that every consumer has the right to know exactly where the meat in the foodstuffs he buys on the shelves comes from. the indication of the country of origin is of fundamental importance for the protection of the health of citizens. i therefore intend to support the text as presented.
in writing. the resolution we voted on today deals with a very important issue for the european agri-food sector: the commission's objective is to ensure greater transparency of information to consumers. i am convinced that transparency and traceability help to strengthen the relationship of trust between consumers and businesses, thus enhancing the many quality products that characterize the different european territories. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year, and i am therefore voting in favour of it. this will then allow us to enter the legislative phase and arrive at certain indications as to the origin of the meat in processed food, a result which will have to be achieved with particular care in order to avoid the increase in administrative costs and burdens.
in writing. i thought i could support, by my vote, the motion for a resolution which seeks to indicate the origin of processed foodstuffs containing meat ingredients, even though it is being put forward in a legislative framework which is totally inadequate to ensure the transparency due to european consumers and the correct value of agricultural raw materials. in the face of this, the food industry's unease about the additional costs that the indication of origin might cause is secondary, but i welcome the proposal in the hope that it can represent a cultural breakthrough for a europe whose citizens are enabled to make an informed choice and where the right price, not necessarily the lowest, is paid to remunerate fairly the entire agri-food chain and to bring out quality products.
in writing. — i voted yes because i consider this resolution important for the protection of the health of our citizens.
in writing. the need to know the origins of what we eat is a priority for all of us european citizens, because the safeguarding of our health and the freedom to choose as consumers are inalienable rights at the heart of all the health and environmental measures we have adopted here. we cannot but welcome the commission's call to provide for the indication of the origin of meat in processed food, because transparency for the benefit of consumers is the first criterion to be observed. i believe, however, that a careful analysis of the costs and benefits, including the legal impact on the internal market and international trade, of the provision of the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance should be provided for. finally, i would like to remind you that the food chain is not limited to the raw material but is made up of processing steps, facts of history, culture and experience, such as those used to produce "made in italy" sausages. it is right to inform consumers about the origin of food, but it is equally important to promote and protect the know-how of our processing industry, which in many cases adds value to the raw material.
in writing. i voted in favour of the measure. the commission has urged the submission of legislative proposals for the mandatory indication of the origin of meat. i find the arguments of those who argue the opposite, that the indication would be too expensive, ridiculous! we protect our farmers, we protect our health and we always check where the products we eat come from!
in writing. today i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the indication of the country of origin of meat on the labelling of processed food products. with this resolution, parliament has sent an important signal to the european commission, clearly asking it to launch a legislative initiative on the labelling of processed meat which will strengthen the principle of compulsory indication of the origin of meat, making a decisive contribution to strengthening the health of consumers and ensuring that they can exercise an informed choice. it should be remembered that, according to a recent study by the european commission, 90% of the consumers interviewed consider it important that the origin of the meat be indicated on the label of processed food products. increased transparency would also help to ensure better traceability along the food chain and thus to detect and tackle any infringements, allowing authorities to conduct more effective investigations into cases of food fraud.
in writing. product traceability should be one of the most comprehensively applied principles in the european common market. consumers have the right to be informed and member states have the duty to inform and thereby protect their citizens. we believe, however, that labelling should be compulsory and not voluntary.
in writing. i voted against this resolution because i believe that the indication of origin for meat used as an ingredient does not represent added value for european consumers and is therefore not worth the cost. in fact, apart from the cases of fraud in recent years (where existing rules have been circumvented, so better application is needed rather than new rules), fixing on the origin kills the processing capacities of italian companies. the same applies to products protected by geographical indications of all kinds (pdo, pgi, etc.) and fresh meat, but we run the risk of flooding the consumer with irrelevant information which makes the important information less visible.
in writing. under regulation (eu) no 1169/2011 on the provision of food information to consumers, the commission should have adopted specific implementing acts by 13 december 2013 to make the indication of the origin of meat used as a primary ingredient mandatory where its absence could mislead the consumer as to the actual origin or provenance. however, the commission has never adopted implementing acts to that effect and at present there is no mandatory labelling for meat used as an ingredient in processed foods and voluntary labelling is a source of confusion and food fraud of various kinds. i could only vote in favour of this proposal, which is to urge the commission to make the labelling of origin compulsory also for meat used as an ingredient in processed foods. the movement, however, calls for a phased approach starting with the regulation of voluntary labelling through the adoption of implementing acts. in this first phase we want those who decide to use labelling as a tool to do so conscientiously and in accordance with precise rules, while those who decide not to adhere to the voluntary scheme will no longer be able to indicate the origin of the meat in question (with the consequent marketing disadvantages).
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution adopted today by the european parliament on the indication of the country of origin on the labelling of meat in processed foodstuffs. i believe that, as is already the case for unprocessed meat, the indication of the origin of meat in processed products is an essential, though not sufficient, element in ensuring a higher degree of traceability in the food chain, providing consumers with more information and encouraging more responsible behaviour on the part of operators in the sector in the choice of suppliers. we have always called for clear labelling to serve the consumer. the resolution also calls on the commission to submit legislative proposals in this area. of course, in the legislative process particular attention will have to be paid to the need to define european standards which are effective in protecting the consumer and which at the same time avoid excessive burdens and costs for businesses operating in the sector.
in writing. i voted strongly in favour of the resolution because it is a step in the right direction towards ensuring greater transparency, allowing consumers to make informed choices about what they buy and consume. it's a necessary measure. in fact, more than 90% of citizens think it is important that there is a label indicating the origin of the meat even in processed products. i hope that the european commission will publish a legislative proposal to this effect as soon as possible.
in writing. the resolution calls urgently, as we in the northern league have been calling for years, for legislative proposals for the compulsory indication of origin.
in writing. the vote on labelling opens the door to an important debate on consumer protection and their rightful demand for transparency. we have not voted today for or against the indication of origin for meat in processed foods, but we have simply asked the commission to come forward with a legislative proposal which we will then discuss in parliament. i know there are concerns, which are normal when the rules change. however, with the position adopted today we will have the opportunity to go further in the future through impact assessments and studies of how, where and whether to act in this regard. to say no today would be to take an ideological position which our consumers would certainly not understand.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the joint resolution on the indication of the origin of meat on the labelling of processed foodstuffs. this is a statement which makes europe take another important step forward in the protection of consumers, quality and the environment. i believe that the european commission should push for better traceability along the food chain, thus promoting more stable relationships between meat suppliers and processing companies.
in writing. - i strongly supported the motion for a resolution which i tabled on behalf of the envi committee, as it fully reflects the wish of european consumers to know the origin of meat in processed products, such as frozen lasagna, pancakes or canned ragus, information which is now compulsory only for fresh meat. i think it is right to ask the european commission to come forward with a legislative proposal aimed at making this mandatory. we have also asked for a careful assessment of the consequences for production in order to avoid excessive costs and administrative burdens for the companies involved, especially the medium-sized ones. today's vote is therefore an important signal to regain the confidence of european consumers and it starts a process which will see us engaged with the council in defining the individual provisions.
in writing. i voted against the motion for a resolution on the indication of the country of origin of meat on the labelling of processed foodstuffs. i consider this proposal to be a penalty because the compulsory indication of origin for meat used as an ingredient would entail considerable additional costs and consequent increases in the price of the final product, which could affect the work of small and mediumsized enterprises, which must be protected.
in writing. i voted against the resolution because i believe that mandatory labelling would not work as a deterrent to food fraud. as reported in a european commission study on the subject, it is clear that consumers are not willing to bear an increased cost in exchange for information on the origin of meat.
in writing. since january 2002, community rules on beef labelling have been in force, which already include the indication of the place of birth, rearing and slaughter. those requirements have certainly raised high expectations among consumers regarding information on the origin of other types of fresh meat widely consumed in the union and of meat used as an ingredient in processed foods. in this resolution we call on the commission to come forward with clear, coherent and harmonised legislative proposals for the compulsory indication of the country of origin of meat also in processed products. we believe, however, that mandatory labelling requirements should take account of the principle of proportionality, as well as the administrative burden on food business operators and enforcement authorities, by providing for their own impact assessment and by seeking to avoid excessive costs. we believe that a rigorous traceability system will help to detect and combat fraud and may be able to restore the confidence of european consumers and influence their behaviour. the labelling of foodstuffs must take account of the transparency and legibility of information for consumers, while allowing european businesses to operate in a cost-effective manner.
in writing. depending on the member state, it is estimated that between 30% and 50% of the total volume of slaughtered meat is processed into meat for use as a food ingredient, mainly in minced meat, meat preparations and meat products. according to the abovementioned commission report on the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for meat used as an ingredient, the existing traceability systems in the eu are not adequate to transmit information on origin along the food chain. article 26 (2) of the regulation on the provision of food information to consumers provides that the indication of the country of origin or place of provenance is mandatory where the omission of such indication is likely to mislead the consumer as to the actual country of origin or place of provenance of the food. according to the 2013 consumer survey on food categories conducted by the consortium for the evaluation of the food chain, meat products ranked first in terms of interest in the indication of origin on the label. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. i have expressed my support for this resolution because the consumer's right to know what is on his plate every day is sacrosanct. the eu already has one of the most stringent meat labelling laws in the world and we are certainly one of the places in the world where food safety is a constant priority for legislators. however, the quality of information also needs to be improved in relation to processed meat products, which we often consume without paying too much attention to what is in them. on the other hand, it must be borne in mind that the introduction of additional specifications on the origin of meat will lead to a significant increase in the costs for the processing companies and naturally the commission will have to take this into account when proposing a reform of the legislation on labelling.
in writing. food information is important to protect the consumer and his well-being. the european union must increasingly focus on quality and safe food and that is why the labelling must take account of the origin of the meat in all products containing it. this is a way of fighting food fraud and a strict traceability system helps to detect and stop any infringements. i voted for the resolution as a whole because it is important that the union's food policies should be in this direction, even if i did not agree with some of the points.
in writing. the european parliament again calls on the european commission to adopt a legislative proposal making the indication of the origin of meat used in processed foods compulsory. i voted against this proposal because i believe that it would only increase administrative burdens and costs, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the main producers of these products, especially in the present economic crisis, when there is a lot of talk about reducing bureaucracy to promote growth.
in writing. - i voted in favour because the resolution, pointing out the existence of numerous studies which reach conclusions very different from those of the commission, calls for legislative proposals for the compulsory indication of the origin of meat.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe it is vital to safeguard the rights of citizens who challenge the inadequacy of the traceability systems used in the eu to transmit information on the origin of meat along the food chain. the traceability and labelling system should therefore be improved, while taking into account the principle of proportionality and the administrative burden for food business operators and the competent authorities. a strict system helps to tackle potential infringements, such as fraudulent substitution of beef for horse meat, and thus helps to restore confidence in the products they buy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution calling on the european commission to make the labelling of origin compulsory also for meat used as an ingredient in processed foods, because it is the citizens who are calling for greater transparency. it is an important signal to the european commission, which has always been wary of this issue, and to the processed products industry, which has on several occasions opposed it on the grounds of allegedly excessive costs. i am in favour of a phased approach starting from the regulation of voluntary labelling through the adoption of implementing acts which the european commission should have done by 13 december 2013. in this way, those who decide to use labelling as a tool will do so in good conscience and in accordance with precise rules, while those who decide not to adhere to the voluntary system should no longer be able to indicate the origin of the meat in question, faced with the resulting marketing disadvantages.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour because the acp assembly of which i am a member is an extraordinary forum for debate and discussion, for dialogue, but also for the intervention of this parliament, which has helped to shine the spotlight on issues of the highest priority and of extraordinary gravity. we think only of the recent ebola outbreak, the violence in congo, the massacres in nigeria, the attacks by boko haram, the islamic fundamentalist offensive that is also spreading in africa. it is not neo-colonialism! talking about this is instrumental. we are discussing, but we are also taking action, sending observers and engaging in dialogue with international bodies, and this is also the way to break down prejudices. of course, relations are not simple, the heterogeneity of the acp countries requires careful reflection and a lot of diplomacy. so let us set goals and see what we get. our priorities must be: the european union is committed to the fight against violence, the protection of human rights, women and minorities, and increasingly intensive development cooperation, as well as the development of good trade relations.
in writing. as a current member of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, i voted in favour of the text of the report, because its contents represent support for the work of the only multilateral interparliamentary assembly set up under an international agreement. i am convinced, however, that profound changes are needed in the measures envisaged in the acp countries' development policies in order to ensure full consistency with the objectives stated in principle. the heavy contradictions between what is stated in official texts and what is actually practiced are no longer tolerable. i find it equally deplorable that in the present situation the eu and acp member states have shown little action in the practical application of the principle of non-negotiation of human rights clauses and the related sanctions in case of violation. i also regard the refusal of the member states holding the rotating presidency of the european council to host the work of the european session of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly as both a serious lack of institutional respect and a clear breach of the commitments made under the cotonou agreement. i therefore hope that this will be remedied immediately at the next partsession.
in writing. i find the goerens report, which analyses the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly between 2012 and 2013, to be unbalanced and not to be shared, especially in view of the deterioration of the political and humanitarian situation in several acp countries and regions. for these reasons i did not intend to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. — i voted yes since i consider that this assembly did a great job and has enriched our knowledge and points of view for a better collaboration with african, caribbean and pacific countries.
in writing. i voted against. the acp is a totally useless assembly and a source of unnecessary expenditure. it met four times between 2012 and 2013 at very high cost, as the political and humanitarian situation in many acp countries deteriorated.
in writing. today i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly. i welcome the report on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, which has presented the work of the assembly in a timely and precise manner and provides a forum for open and direct discussion of the central issues of development cooperation. taking into account the situation in some acp countries, parliament's resolution also underlined the need to strengthen the principle of non-negotiation of human rights clauses and sanctions for non-compliance with these clauses, with particular reference to discrimination based on sex, race or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age, sexual orientation and gender identity, and discrimination against persons with hiv/aids.
in writing. the assembly now plays a key role in relations with the acp countries and through joint institutions monitors the progress of negotiations with those countries, putting on the table respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms as a precondition for any kind of relationship with the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, considering that the agreement between the members of the acp group of states and the eu is based on the objective of reducing and ultimately eliminating poverty and that cooperation also contributes to sustainable economic development, which is the foundation for lasting peace and security, and to the democratic and political stability of the acp countries. i very much appreciate that this parliamentary assembly has become the venue for open and direct discussion of the central issues of development cooperation, also making a significant contribution to the partnership on an equal footing for the acp countries and the eu. finally, i would like to stress the added value of the assembly's sessions being held in the eu member states holding the rotating presidency of the council of the union, and i believe that this rotation should be maintained in the future.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly has done a very good job so far, establishing itself as a key player in acp-eu relations and cooperation, constantly monitoring all political, economic and social developments in the acp countries in order to achieve the millennium development goals, reflecting national and regional interests and the needs of the people involved. i very much hope that not only the human rights dialogue will be strengthened but also the principle of non-negotiation of human rights clauses, especially with regard to discrimination of various kinds based on, for example, sex, race, ethnic origin, religion, personal convictions or disability.
in writing. the report as voted on by the deve committee is positive and acceptable. that is why i am voting in favour, even though it does not reflect all the positions expressed by the spokesmen of the m5s delegation at the meetings of the assembly. the debate focused on the parliament's position on supporting military interventions by other bodies in conflict zones. the m5s delegation expressed its opposition to supporting military interventions, stating that the assembly must maintain its role as a monitor and actor in acp-eu cooperation and that it must give priority to the peaceful and diplomatic prevention and resolution of conflicts and tensions.
in writing. in view of the general deterioration of the situation in the acp countries, it can be said that the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, which met four times between 2012 and 2013, has not been able to play its assigned role.
in writing. i would like to thank and congratulate mr goerens on his excellent report. i particularly share the rapporteur's concerns about acp-eu relations after 2020 and the future of the acp group. in this sense, i am convinced that the assembly will be able to contribute by its efforts to the achievement of development objectives which reflect both national and regional interests and the needs of the people of the acp countries, in order to reduce poverty, achieve the millennium development goals and ensure respect for fundamental human rights, including socioeconomic rights such as the right to food or the right to access basic public services. with my vote in favour i wanted to acknowledge the role played by the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in seeking solutions to urgent and often difficult problems.
in writing. - i declare my vote in favour of this resolution on the work of the acp assembly. i am pleased that this house continues to provide a framework for an open, democratic and comprehensive dialogue between members from different parts of the world on very broad and relevant subjects such as development cooperation, migration, human rights, the fight against climate change, etc. the democratic model of this assembly will, we hope, set an example for the growth of the rule of law and freedom of association and expression in many countries.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of mr goerens' report because i believe that the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly continues to promote a common approach in defining the development framework for the period after 2015. the report highlights the ability of the assembly to play a strategic role in acp-eu relations and cooperation. i believe that the house has been monitoring the political, economic and social developments in the two blocs in order to promote human rights and all fundamental freedoms.
in writing. the acp-eu parliamentary assembly has played and continues to play a key role in monitoring the negotiations and implementation of the economic partnership agreements (epas) in order to ensure that the outcome of the negotiations respects the economic and development objectives set out in the cotonou (2000) mandate. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report on the activities of the acp-eu parliamentary assembly.
in writing. this report describes the annual work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly with the african, caribbean and pacific countries. the document highlights the ability of the assembly to play a key role in acp-eu relations. i believe that it has proactively monitored political, economic and social developments in these countries in order to promote the millennium development goals and respect for all human rights and fundamental freedoms. i voted in favour of the report signed by mr goerens, because i believe it is important that the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly continues to promote a common approach in defining the development framework for the period after 2015.
in writing. we give our full support to the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly over the past two years, which has established itself as a key player in international relations and cooperation. through close monitoring of all political, economic and social developments in the acp countries and with a view to promoting the development objectives and respect for all human rights and fundamental freedoms, it has continued to play a key role in promoting respect for fundamental social rights and democracy based on the rule of law. we believe that transparent and accountable governance is now an integral part of sustainable development. the assembly is essential as it continues to play a key role also in monitoring the negotiations and implementation of economic partnership agreements (epas) in order to ensure that the outcome of the negotiations respects the economic and development objectives set out in the cotonou (2000) mandate. we therefore call for continued attention to be paid to regional and subregional integration and cooperation.
in writing. the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly enjoys a unique status as the only multilateral interparliamentary assembly established under an international agreement, the cotonou agreement. the cotonou agreement between the members of the acp group of states and the eu is based on the objective of reducing and ultimately eliminating poverty and cooperation should also contribute to sustainable economic development, which is the foundation for lasting peace and security, as well as to the democratic and political stability of the acp countries. it would be important to stimulate a continuous informal dialogue, based on substantive analysis, with different categories of stakeholders, both official and non-official, in acp-eu environments (the joint parliamentary assembly, the acp-eu council, the acp-eu private sector and civil society dialogues) and in other environments that do not have a direct interest in the acp-eu reality. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly has played, and continues to play, a key role in acp-eu relations. based on the principles of respect for fundamental freedoms and respect for all human rights, it succeeds in promoting and monitoring economic and social developments in the countries concerned, defending democracy and pushing towards transparent governance, with the aim of sustainable development, with a focus on regional and subregional cooperation. the assembly monitors the negotiations and economic partnership agreements, in accordance with the cotonou mandate, to ensure that the negotiations respect the economic and development objectives set out in the mandate. i hope that the commission will continue to work in this direction and that it will start thinking about the options available to it now, once the cotonou agreement has expired.
in writing. a vote in favour of the report is important to promote the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly and to give due recognition to the role played. the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly is an institution which promotes an open, democratic and as comprehensive as possible dialogue between the members of the european parliament and the parliaments of the african, caribbean and pacific countries, particularly on the implementation of the cotonou convention.
in writing. - i voted against because, in view of the worsening political and humanitarian situation in several acp countries and regions, i believe that it must be acknowledged that the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly has not been able to carry out the task assigned to it.
in writing. - dialogue with the african, caribbean and pacific countries is of fundamental importance in order to be able to improve the destinies of populations who still today, after so many years of suffering due to colonialism, are unable to progress along the path of political stability and economic growth. open and direct discussion of the central issues of development cooperation is an important step towards poverty eradication, which can be achieved through democratic and comprehensive dialogue between the actors involved. we must create a policy aimed at economic integration and the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly can be not only a forum for discussing difficult and controversial issues but also an instrument for development, trade growth and international dialogue both for the european union and for all those countries in africa, the caribbean and the pacific which have signed the cotonou convention, the aim of which is precisely the reduction and ultimately the eradication of poverty. the report on the activities of the acp-eu assembly is a shared effort to achieve the objectives described above and i therefore expressed my support for the text presented.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in june 2014 the islamic state was born, to the indifference of the european parliament. for months europe has culpably underestimated the problem. in july i put a question to high representative ashton, asking among other things whether isis was a danger to european citizens. i 'll read you the answer . "there is no risk to european citizens unless they go back to iraq". but on january 7th, isis came to our house, it hit europe, it hit the european citizens, it hit paris. according to europol, there are 5,000 european fighters in the middle east who could carry out terrorist attacks once they return home. we are at war, a war of civilization that we must win. the enemy is at home, the enemy is islamic terrorism that wants to destroy the west, wants to destroy our traditions, our values. for years, you've been saying that we need to talk. stop it ! you can't have a dialogue with people who brutally murder children, children who are crucified and buried alive, or journalists who are beheaded. i would like to conclude with a reminder: the european union is not a party to the treaty. - what? no more calls, no more communications, no more information! it takes action, it takes courage, courage, courage.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, our thoughts today must go to the young american kayla, the last of the thousands of people slaughtered by isis. in other times, as we know, information about the violence committed by the bloodiest regimes on the planet has always come to us in a fragmented and discontinuous way. these same regimes often covered up the atrocities and human rights violations they committed. today we are faced with a completely opposite reality: isis does not hide its torture, beheading, rape and mass rape, but rather exhibits them; it does not deny the barbarity of its terrorists, but it does flag it in front of the world by imposing sharia law and the cruelty of its illegitimate courts. its victims are muslims and christians, children and women, soldiers and civilians, people of all faiths and races. the european union must therefore, in the face of this terrible challenge to all humanity, develop a strong common strategy of its own and must do so immediately, in all its national and international forums, overcoming all internal divisions. we must do this because before being populist, socialist, communist, liberal democrat, nationalist or eurosceptic, we are all people animated by a deep, unshakable, absolute conviction: that when faced with the alternative between absolute good and evil, between life and death, between respect for human rights and their denial, we choose and will always choose good, life and respect for the rights of every human being. that is the spirit of the resolution which i hope we will all adopt.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the lives of millions of people are at stake in syria and iraq. all the energies must be focused and coordinated. we have said genocide is devastating regions where the west in the past has promoted unforgivable wars. genocide is a challenging word, one that demands appropriate consequences. but one thing must be clear: the threat is not just to the middle east but also to the heart of europe, sowing hatred in the scattered cells of the natives of our cities. for this reason, it is not enough that isis is contained, it must be defeated by liberating the territories it has conquered by force, restoring peace and a possibility of coexistence among all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while we are rightly blaming the humanitarian catastrophe in syria and iraq and voting resolutions, which are also just and acceptable, and trying to deal with the issue, in washington at this moment the clock is ticking back 13 years with president obama's request for authorization from congress for the use of all-out force against isis, including the use of ground troops. we therefore return to the real cause of the birth of daesh, namely the military operations carried out over the last decades without the will to engage politically, not to export democracy as if it were a tomato jar, but to help those countries to grow it spontaneously. unfortunately, i do not hear in this house a real solution, which would be to adopt sensible sanctions against those who are still selling, trading and transporting the illegal oil of isis, a clear strategy towards the countries we call allies and which have so far taken an ambiguous position, at least in this whole affair. bombs kill people, they don't defeat ideas. the nightmare of daesh is also the sleep of western reason.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like all of europe to see the image of this house. we are 751 and there are no more than 40 people here discussing these matters and then you, the caste, go around saying that europe cares about everything and then it does not care about our poor and our elderly, but it cares about everything else, it makes wars, it makes alliances with the united states and then it comes here crying. you are hypocrites! you are hypocrites! you're like that italian saying: "the ox gives the donkey a horn". you're the same, because after the ceremony, the show, you go out and your problem is: where do you eat? what's to drink? where do i go to buy clothes? you don't give a shit what's going on around here. all you care about is getting your asses hot.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today the greatest humanitarian crisis since the second world war. a crisis further aggravated by the atrocities and violence perpetrated by the so-called islamic state, which has launched a campaign of systematic ethnic cleansing, taking responsibility for the horrific war crimes that have terrorized the populations of northern syria and iraq, forcing thousands of people to flee. given the complexity of the problem, it is therefore increasingly important that the european union strategy should include an integrated approach combining military, political, humanitarian and development aspects. i hope, therefore, that by launching the new strategy to support syria and iraq, the european union will not only be able to provide humanitarian assistance but also to make its contribution to the fight against extremism in the region and to provide the neighbouring countries, particularly jordan and lebanon, with the support they need to cope with the influx of refugees.
member of the commission on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, honourable members, thank you for your remarks, your suggestions and, of course, your support. i am fully aware that the crises in syria and iraq are both likely to stay with us for years to come, unfortunately. i will continue to work closely with my fellow external relations commissioners to ensure that the eu’s response will remain strong. it will remain substantial. it will remain tangible. as one of the world’s leading donors in both these crises, the european union has a strong responsibility to take action. and action we are taking! ending the suffering of the millions of people affected by these two terrible crises is not only a moral imperative but also – as all of us have said – very much in our own interest. we need stability in our neighbourhood in order to have stability inside our union. it is obvious. that is why all of us have already agreed on a comprehensive approach as the european response.
in writing. we are facing the worst humanitarian crisis since the end of the second world war. according to the un high commissioner for refugees, more than three million syrians have fled the civil war. it is a desperate situation to which we must respond responsibly and without hesitation. the european union must make every effort to coordinate the countries bordering syria and iraq, to work together in a coalition against is, and not to drag the middle east down the barbaric gorge.
in writing. the syrian crisis is a political ebola. it infects and kills and there's no vaccine. it has already caused 220,000 deaths since 2011, 3.2 million refugees. there is no humanitarian crisis bigger than the syrian crisis in terms of suffering, it is genocide financial aid never seems to be enough. i welcome the new overall strategy presented by the high representative federica mogherini for syria and iraq. we hope that these new funds will be used for the syrians and iraqis who are in difficulty, where difficulty means starving, suffering atrocious violence, living under siege. let us not forget that the hell of migrants often begins in syria and ends tragically in the mediterranean. tragedies that repeat themselves and seem to have no end.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the third millennium, the millennium of proxy wars and the hypocrisy of the so-called international community. we have been plunged from a supposed democratic transition into the middle of a catastrophe. the yemen model is now a distant memory, and indeed it is beginning to be a new syria, yet another piece in the mosaic of violence in the middle east. we too have our responsibilities, because in the great game of the middle east, of this region, the clash continues between iran and saudi arabia and allies for supremacy in the regional chessboard. it's happening in sana'a, but it's also happening in beirut, baghdad and damascus. the great powers continue to bet on both sides, moving with a certain ease according to circumstances, and in the meantime the local populations involved are only pawns defeated, sacrificed and forgotten without anyone having the courage to recognize that at the base it is merely a deliberate instability aimed at rewriting the balance of power. perhaps some in the gulf will be tempted to liquidate it by dividing yemen into north and south yemen, but that will not be the appropriate solution, and meanwhile in our silence the contenders are being heavily armed in anticipation of the decisive clash. we don't have to pick which side suits us best. we have to defend the one side and the one victim: the civilian population. it is not enough to help the refugees, we must also eradicate this disease, this perverse game of proxy wars. that is why in the houthi-salafist conflict, which is the big game between tehran and riyadh, we must intervene and be very tough on those who finance and arm both sides, whoever they are, and i repeat whoever they are. because as long as we tolerate sectarian wars for self-interest we are also sectarians ourselves.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the midst of the chaos in yemen, the news of the closure of several western embassies is coupled with another just before the houthi leader's announcement of a presidential council, which is actually a revolutionary council, which should create a new parliament, a new constitution. you don't understand anything about what the situation is. one thing is very clear: the failure of western policies and, in particular, the utter inconsistency of european union policy. the blurb contained in the statements of the foreign ministers recently meeting on this very subject is also not concrete. we continue to talk about human rights, but we fail to make any impact, we fail to realise that yemen is the most significant example of a process of division which is taking place, often by means of violent opposition by militias in various arab countries, with the creation of sub-state areas and community-type agglomerations. it is a total revolution, in the face of which there is no european policy. europe is not understanding anything that is happening in these countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have gone from a yemen which was a model for the west in the fight against al qaeda, an independent yemen, a socialist yemen, to a yemen which has descended into chaos. we are talking, as many colleagues have said, about a failed state, a state which is in danger of falling into the hands of terrorism. we are even talking about a yemen where western embassies are in danger of being closed. in the middle of this was the arab spring and the houthis took over the city of sana'a, and behind this was, as my colleague castaldo rightly said, proxy warfare. we have to understand the position of iran and saudi arabia in this situation in yemen - and i think this is our topic of discussion - and how they are plunging other countries, other powers, into chaos. it is clear that we should seek a diplomatic response, but the problem is that we are not going to talk to the right people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the very serious situation in yemen, which has plunged into a political vacuum in recent days, is a matter of grave concern. the country has long been a stronghold of al-qaeda, torn between a sunni majority and a sizeable shia minority. now it is on the brink of civil war and general chaos, where al-qaeda extremists find fertile ground. the un security council has expressed concern about the situation in yemen, while many countries are discussing the possibility of closing diplomatic offices as a result of the uncertainty and insecurity in the country. the situation is one of a collapsing political system that offers no escape from the vortex of poverty, and the tensions of the past few days have further aggravated an already tragic situation, making it difficult for humanitarian workers to reach the population. europe should be able to anticipate and intercept humanitarian and political crises of this magnitude that could have unforeseeable consequences. europe cannot escape its role and must make its voice heard, but in a concrete way.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a considerable gap between the legal recognition and the political application of fundamental rights. despite the wording of articles 2, 6 and 7 of the treaty on european union, the rights of millions of european citizens are still affected by the negative and disastrous effects of economic crises, austerity policies, illegal activities such as corruption and various forms of crime. the european union urgently needs an internal strategy on fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law, so as to ensure consistency with the strategic framework already provided for in the field in external relations. there is no mechanism to assess and ensure effectively the protection and promotion of common european values, enshrined in european and national legislation. article 7 of the treaty on european union has remained a dead letter and the alternative mechanism proposed by the commission in its recent communication on the rule of law is not at all ambitious in preventing violations of the fundamental rights of the european union. it is necessary to provide for effective and appropriate monitoring and response arrangements and for the application of sanctions when such rights are violated. the institutions of the european union, and in particular the commission, therefore have a duty to ensure that all european policies are subject to careful analysis, in order to ensure that the union does not contribute directly or indirectly to violations of fundamental rights on its territory.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european systems of protection of rights, the echr and the system developed within the community, are a bulwark against the risks of the degeneration of democracies and are designed to ensure respect for the fundamental values of the union. but there are still gaps and weaknesses in these systems. the charter of rights, for example, does apply to states, but only within the framework of union law. it is a questionable limitation which can lead to discrimination which is really contradictory, since these are fundamental rights. the infringement procedure, on the other hand, only concerns violations of specific provisions of the treaties, leaving open many conduct which also infringes or threatens the principles of the rule of law. even more difficult to use are the cumbersome procedures provided for in article 7 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union for cases of clear risk of a serious breach or of a serious and persistent breach of these principles. the commission's idea of opening up the dialogue on fundamental rights in the european union and of activating a sort of early warning mechanism in all cases of systematic violation of fundamental rights and values, regardless of specific violations of the treaties or of elements of connection with union law, is therefore to be welcomed. the commission's attempt to define the concept of the rule of law better by listing some of its essential principles closely linked to the protection of fundamental rights is also to be appreciated. the new operational framework outlined by the commission is, on the whole, to be welcomed, but it must be put into effect as soon as possible, starting with those situations which are of greatest concern today, thus ensuring protection against discrimination and marginalization, against persecution and against any violation of fundamental rights.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the european union's strategic framework for human rights and democracy marks a turning point in the union's policy. progress has been made but much remains to be done. i am thinking of the role that the european union can play in protecting economic, social and cultural rights, in fighting impunity, against all forms of discrimination, for women's rights and gender equality. i welcome the intervention of vice-president timmermans in this connection. now that the charter of fundamental rights of the european union has finally become legally binding, the union's action can no longer be limited to mere censorship and must ensure that rights are respected in practice. it is necessary to build a european area of rights aimed at ensuring respect for, protection of and promotion of fundamental rights as defined by the copenhagen criteria. and this must be a space that does not have to be confined to europe.
i'm asking for a blue card. i would like to give you the numbers of another massacre, the one two days ago. there are about 420 confirmed victims, they found empty boats. so i ask the chairman of the libe committee if he intends, as i hope, to have a permanent focus on this issue, which is certainly linked to immigration, certainly linked to the right of asylum. i therefore ask him and the libe committee to pay close attention to this matter every day.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i wanted to ask a question to the colleague who just spoke. i am an italian, i have been to lampedusa several times as an italian member of parliament and, hearing your words as i have heard those of many others in this chamber, i ask you: but isn't that the ultimate hypocrisy? don't you think that continuing to do surgeries and saying that 300 people died is just hypocrisy? last year, everyone came to lampedusa to say that we had to change and europe did nothing. isn't that hypocritical? isn't that like crying crocodile tears?
the report by mr glinne, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, is a tragic one. between 300 and 400 dead, like in 2013 in lampedusa. the facts speak for themselves. the end of mare nostrum has once again produced humanitarian disasters and the frontex mission, which was described as decisive, i mean triton, turns out to be: a false substitution and a radical failure. that is why i do not think that frontex should receive additional resources in the present circumstances. despite the fact that the regulations are too vague and not enforced, its task is only border patrol and not the search and rescue of refugees from wars and chaos which also extend to our responsibility. frontex even warns the italian government that rescue operations coordinated by it are prohibited beyond 30 miles from the coast. the shipwrecks of the past few days have all occurred on the high seas, off the coast of libya, where mare nostrum was operating. the truth is that mare nostrum, despite the declarations of the european and italian authorities, has never been replaced. we should ask two things at this point as a parliament. first, that frontex does not obstruct when called to rescue beyond 30 miles. secondly, that europe should decide to support financially the restoration of missions such as mare nostrum. both the un high commission and the council of europe have declared that triton is not up to the task. what are we waiting for to say the same thing? today, the president of the italian senate, pietro grasso, said: "it's too late to act now".
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to discuss yet another tragedy: 300-400 dead in the sicilian channel. we cannot even speak of a tragedy anymore, because it is a permanent tragedy. so i ask myself: what are we arguing about if, time after time, year after year, we find ourselves in the same situation? because we cannot take any action, any decision that is concrete. i am glad that the council and the commission are here, talking about joint measures, about european action that can really counteract this kind of tragedy and above all that can counteract human trafficking, because that is what it is about. but they are words, because what is really happening is that we continue to see in a disjointed way, so with the intergovernmental method, the discourse of immigration and that there is a total disinterest in dealing with the phenomenon of organized crime that makes the trades of billionaires and that causes these tragedies to occur. we must try to work to ensure humanitarian corridors for those fleeing from wars and to combat the organised crime which is profiting very heavily from these corridors.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, yet another predicted and avoidable tragedy: 300 dead, 29 of them frozen to death because of the inadequacy of the means by which they were rescued. we are here to express our solidarity, to express our condolences, but we could do much more. we can and we should, because our presence here in this parliament makes sense if we take concrete action. we have a responsibility and a legal and moral duty to do something more. so, as a member of the libe committee, i think that the resolution we voted on two months ago should be implemented immediately. it is two months since the resolution was voted on in this house and passed, and it is still sitting in the most complete immobility. i expect the commission to put forward proposals and take concrete measures to improve the management of migration flows, so that we do not find ourselves here again asking for help, showing solidarity, and then doing nothing. the need for clear and uniform rules at european level is also felt, and this is urgent, to protect particularly vulnerable persons such as children, who very often disappear into thin air when they apply for international protection. we must give greater protection to children and women. if europe is to be a project of open societies based on fundamental rights, it is essential that the common european asylum system, to which easo is also contributing, should be focused on the protection of fundamental rights.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, immigration policies are the most striking example of the failure of europe, or rather of the desire to destroy a continent socially, economically and culturally. let's not kid ourselves. frontex should first of all control the european borders. where do they put his headquarters? in warsaw. obviously in the farthest place that can be useful to control the starting points of immigration arriving in italy. 600 million spent in ten years. 5 million euros spent every year on the rent of this mammoth venue and staff. of the €80 million total budget in 2013, €30 million is needed to maintain the structure. so, obviously, we are paying with public money for a cart that has practically zero results when it comes to immigration. last year, 3,000 people died in the mediterranean sea, on the conscience of those who invited them to leave. the only recipe is not frontex, triton, mare nostrum, pippo, pluto or paperin, but to prevent these people from leaving by helping them to try not to escape from hunger and war. a war that europe likes, however, because there are people playing at war with putin. instead of deploying nato's men and means to take down that madness, that beast, that piece of shit called isis, we're playing war with putin. so it's just another example of how taxpayers' money is being wasted. just copy what others are doing, just copy from canada, australia and the developed countries: there is no need for frontex and immigration is controlled smoothly.
i'm asking for a blue card. i wanted to ask my colleague to explain for a moment the difference between a refugee and an economic migrant.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard very different views in this house, and i regret to say so. europe as a fortress or even it has been said that neither triton nor frontex are needed. i would like to start with what president juncker said when he took office. the problem of immigration is a european problem. so europe is there, europe must be more involved, and i think the commission and the council have taken note of this, after all that is happening and has happened. we have three important points which are: security, legality and the humanitarian data. it is unacceptable that women, children and people who want to come to europe to find refuge can still die, because they are not just illegal immigrants. as far as security is concerned, we must also combat what is a new terrorism alarm. as far as legality is concerned, there are criminal organizations, think of the scandal that happened in italy where gangs ran the business of immigrants. and then, i repeat the humanitarian figure. commissioner, since we have been talking about budget, funds, means and human resources, and since the head of frontex has said that the means are there, that the resources are there and that they do not need other means, what is the truth? can frontex and triton be strengthened, certainly involving the other member states, do we need new resources or do we need a new organisation? that is what i want to ask the commissioner.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent massacre in lampedusa requires europe as a whole to reflect carefully on what the most appropriate strategy should be for dealing with the flows of migrants, which are unprecedented in the history of our continent, if it is true, as it is true, that the number of disembarkations continues to increase and with them the number of deaths at sea. the triton operation, as it has been structured so far, has proved to be wholly inadequate in terms of means and resources. it is enough to think that it costs 3 million euros a month, whereas the mare nostrum operation was going to cost the italian government 9.3 million euros a month. that is why it is necessary to integrate resources and means through the participation, in my view absolutely obligatory and not optional, of the member states, through the application of the principle of solidarity which must represent the discriminating element of europe. but we also need to change the principle of the dublin regulation, as has been said by several parties, which obliges refugees to seek asylum only in the first country of entry. we must also take action on the border countries so that they can exercise all possible preventive controls to stop the departure of migrants. finally, we must not underestimate the real risk of terrorist infiltration among immigrants, as has been demonstrated by certain intelligence services in recent weeks, which is another absolute emergency that must be tackled with the necessary firmness.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, from the very beginning of operation triton we have been saying in this house that it is totally inadequate and inadequate, not only because it has no means at all to respond to an emergency situation such as the one that occurred in lampedusa just two days ago, but also because there is no real search and rescue mandate at sea, while people continue to be taken on board and die. moreover, it operates only 30 miles beyond italian territorial waters, whereas mare nostrum operated up to 172 miles. in that space difference, people are dying again, they've started dying again. that's the only difference we have. those who said earlier that mare nostrum should be eliminated because it encouraged departures have been tragically refuted by the facts, because now, since the beginning of this year, without mare nostrum, departures have increased by 60%. we need a european mare nostrum, we need finally a response from those governments which have been too selfish and too jealous of their own powers to give a truly european response which is increasingly necessary. i would ask the latvian presidency to say this to the governments in the council, i would like them to remind them of the responsibility we have as europeans and that we can finally find a common answer.
i'm asking for a blue card. i may have misunderstood, but i would like to ask the honourable member what the situation in greece has to do with the flight from libya or the war in ukraine.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after months of discussions it is clear to everyone that the problem of managing migration flows is not just a problem of border states like italy and malta, but a problem of europe as a whole. but it is equally clear to me that this awareness is hardly translating into a common migration policy and action. the instruments put in place are deficient. frontex struggles to strike a balance between the need for security and humanitarian responsibility. the 400 deaths last night demonstrate, with brutal realism, how bankrupt your management and the management of operation triton are. these massacres are provoking outrage from many representatives of the international community. i recall the words of the un high commissioner for refugees, antónio guterres, who yesterday reminded us with disarming clarity that the failure of this mission will soon lead to new, unmanageable tragedies. the mediterranean was once the crossroads of great civilizations, but today it has become a theatre of death. new bodies with no names, but still faces without land. the increase in arrivals will lead to a multiplication of asylum applications and so, commissioner timmermans, madam representative of the council, the picture of a lame system is clear. without structural intervention that approaches the issue holistically, we will not be able to deal with this announced emergency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, over 300 lives were lost, over 300 victims were lost at sea off the coast of europe. mr president, this is yet another tragedy which could have been avoided if only this house and our institutions had been more attentive, more decisive, less blind. europe needs, as has been said by several colleagues, a recovery of an effective rescue system. triton is completely inadequate, as several leading figures have already admitted. we must change our approach radically, we must finally give weight to human rights, following the italian example of mare nostrum. what we are asking for, the commitment we are asking for again tonight, is a european mare nostrum: we must not leave italy alone and we must not abandon migrants to their fate. mr president, europe, our institutions and this parliament must not turn the other way again.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the one the other day is unfortunately only the first confirmed massacre this year and the budget is even greater than the tragedy in lampedusa which led to the establishment of mare nostrum, which thanks to the generosity and self-sacrifice of the italians has saved over 150,000 lives. that sacrifice was useless, we've gone back in time. in fact, this time the migrants froze to death aboard the motorized boats that had traveled 100 miles at sea force 8 because there were no triton ships in the area. triton that lacks the humanitarian aspect that mare nostrum played. triton, which is no more than 30 miles, while mare nostrum sometimes pushed to the rescue to the coast of libya. triton has only 2.9 million euros a month while mare nostrum had 9.5 million. then let's prepare for more slaughter. if european leaders do not really address this issue, if they do not take note that migrants are leaving anyway - in fact, landings have increased - if a humanitarian corridor is not established, we will prepare for a horror accounting.
in writing. the european commission is calling for adequate funding for frontex, believing that "a budget of only €90 million a year is certainly not up to the task of protecting europe's common borders". does the eu spokeswoman know that it was announced just a few days ago that frontex will cost 114 million euros in 2015, 14% more than in 2014, and that the donations from the schengen countries will increase from 5.6 million to 7 million euros, while those from the united kingdom and ireland will decrease from 900 thousand to 820 thousand euros? do you know that 72% of this budget will be spent on border surveillance activities of the union? but i wonder and i wonder: in view of the poor results so far achieved in containing illegal immigration by frontex, how will this additional funding be effectively used? will these additional funds really help to curb illegal immigration? do the commissioner and his spokesman speak to each other before making statements on the same subject?
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, access to medicines is part of the right to health, which is one of the most important of the rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european citizen. however, in low- and middle-income countries, the price of medicines can reach up to 80 times the international reference price. in these countries there is very little availability of medicines in the public sector, while there is great availability in the private sector, where prices are much higher, thus making medicines inaccessible to huge sections of the population. so we have a problem of access to medicines, but we have a problem of over-medicine. i am referring to the excessive concentration of industrial production of medicines, which is entirely in the hands of a very few pharmaceutical companies. more than 90 percent of the medicines produced worldwide are produced in rich countries. over 70% of the world's medicines are produced in just five countries. over 45 percent of the drugs are made by just ten pharmaceutical companies, ten multinational drug companies. so these corporations have enormous power in their hands: the power to decide on the price of medicines; the power to lay down rules on intellectual property rights; the power to decide on the allocation of scientific research investments; the power to encourage so-called incremental innovation, that is to say, to encourage only small improvements in existing products. this perverse logic means that medicines which are not very innovative compared with those already on the market are still being introduced on the market, and this requires considerable investment in marketing alone. the result is that we have increasingly expensive but less innovative medicines, which have little impact on patients' health. i'm talking about cetuximab, which, at a cost of 80,000 euros per lung cancer patient, produces an average survival increase of only one and a half months. i'm talking about erlotinib, which, at a cost of $15,000 per patient with pancreatic cancer, produces an average survival increase of only ten days. we propose to open the market for generic medicines and biosimilars once and for all, which are as effective as the originals but cost much less and are therefore much more sustainable for the health systems of all the member states. we also propose the establishment of a large public and european pharmaceutical company which will be able to carry out research in all those areas which are snubbed by private pharmaceutical companies because they are considered commercially uninteresting, such as antimicrobial resistance or the development of vaccines against tragic pandemics such as the ebola virus.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to return to a subject which we have already touched upon, namely orphan drugs, those drugs which are intended for the treatment of rare diseases. pharmaceutical companies are usually reluctant to develop these drugs under normal market conditions, as there is clearly no economic return from the sale of these drugs. however, certain factors must be taken into account: it is estimated that there are between 5 000 and 8 000 rare diseases, affecting about 6 to 8% of the european population, an estimated 27 to 36 million people. so it is true that we have 28 different health systems and 28 different approaches to health, but one thing that all our member states have in common is the concept of the patient as a customer, because they are the customer of the pharmaceutical multinationals. it is therefore essential to change this paradigm and i would like to reiterate the proposal and the idea put forward by my colleague mr pedicini of a european public pharmaceutical company, which can really change completely the way we treat and care for health in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, medical research is now making progress in the effectiveness of care of such a revolutionary scope that it is also reflected in the economic factors of health care. it is good and ethical that medicines should be cheaper. the aim of increasing universal health coverage means that the most modern techniques for testing and producing medicinal products must be adopted in order to meet the necessary criteria of efficiency and cost-effectiveness. however, as is well known, the lack of economic viability is now reflected in the very possibility of treatment due to the prohibitive cost of some medicines, such as sofosbuvir for hepatitis, which costs up to 50,000 euros. policy choices must be directed towards processes that can have a positive impact on the effectiveness of research and the cost-effectiveness of health care. i am thinking of the innovation of research processes, such as remote patient monitoring systems or even the development of molecular drugs called biological or intelligent. i also hope that the development of centres of excellence in research will be encouraged with increased subsidies from the member states, in order to promote greater economic viability of the drug and an ever-increasing sharing of information and knowledge, overcoming the logic of the research monopoly. another way of combining innovation and cost-effectiveness is through joint and coordinated policy action. it is true that the regulatory process is the responsibility of each member state, but the commission must encourage cooperation between the member states in order to curb price speculation. finally, a production method could be developed which would make it possible to produce medicines in a way which departs from the classical discontinuous batch system which is widely used today. i believe that this is the direction in which the member states and the commission should take action to ensure that medicines are accessible and thus that there is greater social equity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing an unprecedented paradox in europe. for decades, we've asked research to give us the tools to fight cancer. today we are able to beat many cancers and we can chronicle many different types of cancer, but too many patients across europe do not have access to the new drugs that guarantee these results. the approach to drug pricing and reimbursement is too fragmented. each member state has to negotiate a price with the pharmaceutical companies and decide whether and how to reimburse the new medicine, and this brings unacceptable differences for european patients. we think it often takes up to ten years, if not more, before an ema-approved drug is available, and in addition the price of new drugs varies greatly from country to country and not always in relation to the cost of living. this is not good. this is not right. this needs to change. the price of a new medicine must be based on a balanced assessment of the real costs of producing and developing the medicine and the impact on patient health and society. the ema must be able to include a cost-benefit analysis and for this the commission must include the work of the health technology assessment agency. i believe that, for all that i have said, we must go far beyond the commission's proposal. let's just say it's a good start.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if it is true that one of the main pillars of the european union is to ensure the protection of public health, then perhaps europe has missed something. i am referring to the overwhelming power of the pharmaceutical companies and the monopoly they have over, for example, the trade in life-saving medicines, at an unsustainable cost to the sick and huge profits for multinational companies and often for corrupt politicians. the way it has been run so far, this system seems to have served the interests of a few and their bank account, to the detriment of the poor citizens who cannot even afford generic medicines. this system has mortified the efforts of thousands of researchers, often poorly paid, who have sacrificed their lives to a dream: their drugs, the drugs they discovered, were available to everyone. we need more social justice in this europe.
i'm asking for a blue card. on the last point, i ask my colleague whether it is not appropriate to provide for european legislation to facilitate access to the report, that is to say, to impose an alert on the homepage of search engines precisely to reject and start directly reporting what is perhaps child pornography on the internet.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner stylianides, you have already given the data, the ngo data, the europol data, on what is really a problem of difficult solution, also because it is as if it were the reverse of the medal of the positive aspects of the internet. if on the one hand we have a tool that allows us to actually come together, to be able to do things that were unimaginable until a few years ago, on the other hand there's the deep web, the dark web, something that's out of our control and that then leads to very serious crimes that can target children as young as two years old and below of all kinds. so we have to try to find a way to be able to run as fast as the internet is developing. it is not easy, the tools we have today are not enough and we must try to find solutions together.
in writing. the internet center for missing and exploited children estimates that 25 million files of child pornography are circulating on the internet: in just over 10 years, since the last analysis in 2002, there has been a dramatic increase of about 500%. adolescents, pre-adolescents, but also children and infants, victims of the darkest navigation, the one that often lurks and hides in the dark web but also among the webs of social networks. we must do more and use every measure and strategy to stem this vile phenomenon and harness the power of networks without putting our own safety, let alone that of our children, at risk. directive 2011/93/eu on combating the sexual abuse and exploitation of children should be the starting point for coordinated and tough, preventive and punitive action for such offences: the commission is also proposing to set up an international task force, to promote 'hashes' to identify the most dangerous images circulating online, to launch a serious reflection in support of the ethics and responsibility of the giants of the networks, to launch information campaigns for young people on the dangers of the net and for families to take greater control action.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, bob rugurika, president of african public radio, has never believed the official version of the burundian authorities that these three italian nuns were killed and probably raped, while the burundian government says that a man with a mental disorder acted alone. as mr nart has rightly said, this is a matter of press freedom and the aid which the european union is giving to burundi, which is also due to hold elections in the near future. so we try to be consistent in our approach to countries where this sort of thing happens, where people are detained who are deemed uncomfortable with the government for the activity they're doing. we are questioning what our aid is and what our relations with these countries are. we are also paying attention to this with this resolution, and we are also calling for the immediate release of bob rugurika.
mr president, i would like to thank the authors of this motion for having it before us today. the bob ruguricka case is extremely important. this is another example of a journalist who was wrongfully accused for his investigative work. it's necessary to put it clearly and say that the situation is even worse that he was even accused of a crime that he tried to publish and reveal. so it is clear that there is an abuse of judicial power in burundi and we must point this out. the situation is made worse by the fact that burundi is a partner of the european union. the european union is strongly supporting burundi and we should not only call for the release of mr bob rugurika and for an investigation into the heinous murders of three eu citizens, but we should also make it clear that if burundi does not do this, then eu sanctions must be imposed and burundi punished.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. burundi is one of the poorest countries in the world, plagued by a high rate of corruption, ranking 157th according to transparency international data. in this context of political and social instability, the unjustified arrest of bob rugurika, journalist and director of african public radio, on 20 january is alarming and worrisome. rugurika was detained by the burundian authorities, as feared, for investigating the instigators and motives behind the murder of the three italian missionaries olga, lucia and bernadetta. according to complaints from some human rights associations, he is at risk of physical and psychological torture. several international organizations have already mobilized to demand the journalist's release. the court, meanwhile, has already denied bail, confirming the charges. it is necessary for europe to intervene firmly and decisively with the burundian authorities, calling for the immediate release of the journalist and the re-establishment of democratic conditions in the country.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, how much does it cost a man in burundi to seek the truth? how much can you pay for seeing too much? the three italian nuns, bernadetta, olga and lucia, paid with their lives. our activist, mr rugurika, is in danger of paying with twenty years in prison for his desire to sow doubt and inconvenient truths, such as those hitherto advocated by the burundian government. the last transfer to muramvya, a prison known to be a very convenient place to hide very uncomfortable people, is only the final act of this shameful action by the burundian authorities. we demand his immediate release and above all that he be allowed to do the work that must be done by every journalist and activist who is truly committed to the cause of human rights. it is not possible for a country to prepare for elections by stifling every voice other than the mainstream. as the european union we cannot allow this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, another arrest, another violation of freedom of expression, affecting not only journalists but also activists and members of political parties. we are here again, after the mbonimpa case we denounced, and the situation is unfortunately bound to worsen in view of the forthcoming presidential elections. bob rugurika is guilty of wanting to shed light on the deaths of the three missionary sisters, bernadetta, olga and lucia. burundi has an obligation to respect universal human rights, including freedom of expression. it is the binding of the human rights clause provided for in the cotonou agreement, the international covenant on civil and political rights and the african charter on human and peoples' rights. the european union has a responsibility to ensure that this clause is respected and to punish any violation of human rights. we must monitor the pre-electoral situation to ensure that the repeated violations of fundamental freedoms do not affect not only the democratization process but also peace and security in burundi and the whole lake district.
author of the book. mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, raïf badawi, blogger and founder of free saudi liberals, cannot take any more lashes. we all agree on this, and therefore the purpose of this resolution is, first of all, to call on the saudi authorities to block this conviction and to release raïf badawi. but from this must come a little bit of a broader reflection of what our love of petrodollars is and what our relations are with saudi arabia. we are witnessing continuous violations of international law and human rights, which are creating a hypocritical situation even in relation to a country which is an ally of the west when it comes to the fight against terrorism. how can we fight against the practices of isis when we consider a country that imposes corporal punishment on freedom of information or opponents or critics of religion as a friend? this is reflection.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ten years of imprisonment and a thousand lashes for a political, social and religious debate, fifteen years for a lawyer for his role as a defender of human rights. what kind of penal system is that where you get fifty lashes and then you're cured to get nine hundred and fifty more? this is a slow, painful death sentence in stages. there is no justification or political calculation that can allow us to ignore this barbarity. if saudi arabia is a partner, it must respect and listen to us and it must absolutely release all those who are unjustly detained for their opinions, for democracy and for dialogue, it must reform its penal system by turning it into a reeducation system. ladies and gentlemen, the conscience of this parliament cannot be chameleon-like with arabia and many other countries, as many of you have said before, because human rights are a categorical imperative for us. we cannot sell our principles so cheaply to a barrel of oil, because every lash that is given to badawi is a lash to our conscience as parliamentarians and as representatives of the whole of europe. we owe it to raïf and all the other raïfs detained in saudi arabia. we must use every tool at our disposal and all groups must be united in this respect. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i agree with you, colleague. we don't have to accept hypocritical endorsements. if we want to fight terrorism, we must also demonstrate this by applying the principles and by completely dissociating ourselves from the barbarity of these practices. just as our allies and partners must not have double standards, neither should we, and, yes, from my point of view, "je suis absolument raïf tous les jours".
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the families of the approximately 2000 people who disappeared in cyprus from 1964 to 1974 have every right to know what happened to their loved ones, especially since many of them are elderly and are in danger of dying without even knowing what happened. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the committee on missing persons in cyprus is doing a great job but needs the full cooperation of the authorities. the european union is certainly cooperating, financing the committee, but turkey's part is missing, which is financed by the european union under the pre-accession agreements. so let's get back to a larger discussion. we are trying to put pressure on the turkish government to help clarify this matter.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, many bodies can be buried in a mass grave, but how deep must a grave be to bury the history of the victims and the responsibility for a terrible conflict that is still unresolved? it's too deep! for each of the victims of ashia, for each of the more than 2,000 missing in action in cyprus, there are still families desperate for a grief that has become an integral part of their lives. a grief that may be partially alleviated by a response, however belated, and the relatives' remains finally returned. turkey must therefore immediately implement the judgments of the european court of human rights and all parties involved must contribute to the work of the committee by opening their archives and telling their stories. the candidate countries must be expected to cooperate and commit themselves to the utmost, not to remain silent for a long time and shamefully. it's never too late to correct a mistake.
member of the commission. - mr president, vice-president/high representative federica mogherini has asked me to deliver the following message on her behalf. the commission is conscious of the human dimension of the consequences of the tragic events of 1963-1964 and 1974 for the population throughout the island of cyprus. unanswered questions, especially those about missing persons, prevent many cypriots from both communities from leaving their painful past behind. for the families concerned it is thus crucial to determine the fate of their loved ones. for this reason, the commission is fully committed to supporting the work of the un-facilitated bi-communal committee on missing persons (cmp). the committee on missing persons’ humanitarian mandate contributes to providing relief to the families of missing persons. it has proved to be a successful confidence-building measure between both cypriot communities, and thus also strongly contributes to reconciliation in cyprus. the european union is currently its main source of funding, with an overall contribution since 2006 of eur 14.7 million, managed under the authority of my colleague, corina crețu. the european union is committed to continuing to support the work of the cmp and will provide an additional eur 2.5 million in 2015. we also wanted to thank this parliament, which in the past years provided extra funding for the cmp. in this respect i would like to pay my personal homage to former members panayiotis demetriou, ioannis kasoulides, klamt and busuttil, as well as to current members böge, theocharous and hadjigeorgiou. the commission agrees that more can and should be done by all relevant stakeholders to clarify the fate of all missing persons. at the same time, the fieldwork becomes more difficult, as new information sources are now scarce, and remaining potential graves are less accessible. this is why it is important that the cmp is granted full access to all relevant archives and, of course, military areas. the eu regularly calls on turkey to comply with this. missing persons is a humanitarian issue. this, like many other issues, shows the need for a fair, comprehensive and viable settlement between the greek cypriot and turkish cypriot communities. the eu has given its strong support to the resumption of cyprus talks under the auspices of the united nations. we have made clear our readiness to help. we support the efforts of the un envoy espen barth eide. it is time to find an adequate answer and to give support to both communities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as was also mentioned in the house and in yesterday's debate, 300 people died off lampedusa yesterday. it's yet another massacre in the mediterranean. i ask that this parliament not only observe a minute's silence, but that this parliament finally take responsibility for changing immigration policies, such as triton and frontex, which have been described as totally inadequate even by the high commissioner for human rights. i ask that, in memory of these people who sought a better life, a moment of silence be observed.
in writing. i intend to support this text, which i consider to be well-balanced and well-structured. i think it is of the utmost importance that a special committee be set up, one of whose tasks will be to shed light on the scandal of the tax preferences granted by the grand duchy of luxembourg to certain multinational and large companies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution setting up a special committee of parliament to work for the next six months on the application of the union's state aid rules and member states' decisions on taxation from 1991 to the present. the so-called 'luxleaks' have brought to light aggressively favourable tax policies in several member states, including luxembourg, the netherlands, ireland and belgium. it is necessary to analyse carefully what has happened and, above all, to formulate proposals so that such incidents do not happen again. it is clear that fiscal policies are a field in which, by applying a highly simplified planning system which is considerably different from the parameters of the rest of the european union, not only unfair competition is exercised towards other member states, but there are also strongly distorting effects on the public finances of the union, and i would add on the sense of cohesion of the union itself. the committee which is being set up today will enable parliament to contribute to the work which the european commission has been carrying out in recent months. transparency in tax policy is a prerequisite for a stronger and more authoritative union.
in writing. — i voted yes because i consider that this committee could be very important for the decisions on fiscal policies.
in writing. i voted in favour. we must shed light on the tax preferences granted by luxembourg to large industrial and banking groups and on the role played by the current president of the european commission, mr juncker, in this operation.
in writing. we are in favour of the establishment of a special committee on tax agreements in the territory of the union. the extension of the scope of the investigation to a period of 24 years prior to the establishment of the commission will be essential to establish good tax practices between member states, with the hope that the problem of tax evasion can be tackled. we must not repeat the scandals that have recently involved hsbc bank, revealing a total of $100 billion stolen from tax agencies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the establishment of this special committee because i believe that we must clarify the behaviour which has potentially damaged the public finances of the european states and therefore has given less value to the taxes we all pay. of course, i'm a guarantor, and i believe that until proven otherwise, no one has made a mistake. i think that tax competition, like all competition, is healthy insofar as the starting conditions are comparable. i am anxiously awaiting the report of this committee so that i can get a better idea of what has happened and be able to assess the situation on the basis of as objective information as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the establishment of this special committee because i believe that it will carry out useful monitoring and control of the management and use of european funding and state aid, not only by the european commission but also by all member states. it is important that all tax agreements are transparent and that any tax planning does not affect public finances and, consequently, the lives of all of us citizens. i therefore wish my colleagues and the new special committee every success.
in writing. i am in favour of the establishment of the special committee whose tasks include shedding light on the so-called 'luxleak' case.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the resolution establishing a special committee on tax rulings. it is essential to clarify the application of european state aid rules and thus to accompany the work of the european commission. i wish my 45 colleagues who will be part of it all the best. their work will be valuable in contributing to greater equity and legal certainty in the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the establishment of a special committee on tax agreements and other measures of a similar nature or effect, because i think it is right that a special body should be set up to examine tax rulings implemented by all eu member states. in particular, the committee will examine tax agreements concluded since 1 january 1991 and will endeavour to ascertain the negative impact of aggressive tax planning on public finances.
in writing. i voted in favour of the establishment of a special european parliament committee on taxation regimes, which will be responsible for examining all cases of tax avoidance and evasion, as i consider it a necessary tool for monitoring all tax decisions and other similar measures of the member states in the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the establishment of a special committee on taxation agreements and other measures similar in nature or effect, as i considered it desirable to set up a special body to examine tax rulings implemented by the member states of the european union. the commission will examine tax agreements concluded since 1 january 1991 and will also endeavour to ascertain the negative impact of aggressive tax planning on public finances.
in writing. i voted in favour of the establishment of the special committee on taxation agreements, of course, because i believe that a fair european taxation policy is very much dependent on the success of the union itself, as well as on the recovery of the real economy and employment. tax evasion and tax havens are probably the most harmful crimes to a society that wants to call itself just and equal, endangering the very foundations on which society itself is based. our group has repeatedly stated this, especially after the luxleaks scandal: the fight against tax evasion and tax havens will be a priority in this legislature. the creation of this committee is proof of that.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the establishment of the special committee because it has, among its tasks, the task of shedding light on the 'luxleaks' case concerning the tax preferences granted by the grand duchy of luxembourg to certain multinational and large companies.
in writing. - on 12 february the european parliament voted to set up a special parliamentary committee, the taxe committee. this committee, set up thanks to the m5s in europe against tax havens and tax avoidance by multinationals, will assess the system of tax agreements between eu member states and large multinationals. the special committee is composed of members from all political groups. for m5s, i, together with my colleague marco zanni, will have the honour of protecting the interests of the citizens from the power of the corporate lobby. however, the choice of this instrument is far from what m5s had initially asked for, as this committee will not have real investigative powers. in fact, following the tax scandal in luxembourg, we had prepared a motion of censure, which was unfortunately rejected by the house in strasbourg last november. we have therefore asked, together with 191 other members of the european parliament, for a parliamentary committee of inquiry to be set up to investigate and assess any breaches of tax agreements by luxembourg or other member states. unfortunately, the legal service of the european parliament and the large political groups (epp and s&d) have ruled that our request was not founded, without going into the specific merits of the matter. the choice of the special committee is therefore the minimum solution.
in writing. i voted in favour of the establishment of this special committee to evaluate the tax agreements of the member states, to shed some light on realities in many eu countries that risk being harmful to the european partners themselves. we cannot hide from the fact that the choice of this instrument is far from what we were calling for, and that it emerged predominantly in the wake of the luxembourg tax scandal (luxleaks), which directly involved commission president juncker, and for which we had prepared a special censure, which was unfortunately rejected by the strasbourg assembly in november. we therefore asked, together with a total of 191 members, for a parliamentary committee of inquiry to be set up to assess effectively any breaches by luxembourg or other european countries. the legal service of the european parliament, with the support of the large groups (people's and socialist), has ruled that our request is unfounded, without however going into the specific merits of the matter. today's choice is therefore the minimum solution, which can satisfy (or dissatisfy) everyone. in any case, we must use all the instruments at our disposal and that is why i have decided to take part in this committee, trying to make an active contribution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the establishment of a special parliamentary committee to assess the system of tax agreements between member states of the european union and large multinationals. when it comes to fraud, tax evasion and tax havens, there is no room for compromise. as a member of the five star movement, i had already signed a petition calling for the establishment of a committee of inquiry into the luxleaks scandal, which involved the alleged tax favours granted by luxembourg to 340 banks and multinational companies over the past 20 years, and which had personally involved the president of the european commission, mr juncker, against whom we had also prepared a motion of censure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, i believe it is essential to use all the instruments at our disposal, even if they are not sufficient, to combat these deplorable policies.
in writing. i share the views expressed in this resolution and have therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. the conflict in syria presents dramatic numbers on the humanitarian front. over 200,000 people were killed, more than ten million displaced, with some four million syrians fleeing abroad. according to the commission, some 276 000 refugees have tried to enter the eu. more than 200,000 syrians have fled to iraq. this situation dramatically crosses the developments in iraq and the neighboring areas of the offensive of the terrorist organization isil/daesh. already, more than two million iraqis are displaced. the situation of refugees in neighbouring countries is at the limit of what is possible. the situation, complicated by the harshness of winter, is likely to worsen further with the arrival of the heat, given the sanitary conditions and the poor access to drinking water. i voted in favour of this resolution which, in condemning the appalling human rights violations by the assad regime, isil/daesh and other jihadist groups, calls on the union to adopt a comprehensive regional strategy to defeat isil/daesh and to contribute to joint efforts to alleviate the humanitarian crisis and conflict in syria and iraq. we are also aware that the fundamentalist groups gaining ground in the middle east and north africa are intimately linked to the terrorist threat we have to face within the union.
in writing. — i voted in favour since the situation in iraq and syria has now become critical and hundreds of civilians are suffering because of it.
in writing. i voted in favour. isis is made up of beasts and must be destroyed.
in writing. today i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria, particularly in the context of the is. the resolution also highlighted how the atrocities and violence perpetrated by the so-called islamic state, which has launched a systematic campaign of ethnic cleansing in northern syria and iraq, have terrorised the people of northern syria and iraq, forcing thousands to flee. given the complexity of the problem, it is therefore increasingly important that the european union strategy should include an integrated approach combining military, political, humanitarian and development aspects. the european union is therefore obliged to provide humanitarian assistance and to contribute to the fight against extremism in the region. at the same time, it is crucial that the eu supports neighbouring countries, in particular jordan and lebanon, in order to help them cope with the influx of refugees and the threat of the islamic state.
in writing. it is estimated that there are over three million displaced people in syria alone and that an adequate response to the humanitarian crisis would require some three billion dollars. the response to the isis threat must be addressed by giving priority priority to resolving the humanitarian crisis and the measures to be implemented to limit its long-term negative effects.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because both situations have caused a humanitarian catastrophe of enormous proportions. i also considered the additional problem that many refugees and internally displaced persons are not registered, which prevents them from accessing essential humanitarian aid and basic protection measures. they strongly condemn the appalling, systematic and widespread violations and abuses of human rights committed by all sides, and in particular all forms of violence against persons on the basis of their religious and ethnic affiliation and violence against women.
in writing. i can only express my concern at this wave of violence which has spread and which has in recent years caused an unprecedented humanitarian catastrophe, where human rights violations are commonplace, especially against women and children. children who, according to a report by the un committee on 4 february, are being abducted as sex slaves, recruited as soldiers, killed, crucified and even buried alive. these are atrocities that have reached their climax. the international community must respond to military action. it is essential to keep military action separate from humanitarian action to alleviate the suffering of civilians caught up in the conflict, who must be protected and who must be provided with medical and psychological assistance. i also hope that appropriate legal action will be taken as soon as possible against all citizens of the member states who decide to join these terrorist groups, because the advance of terrorism also affects the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour because we must strongly condemn the violence against civilians and, in particular, against children who are buried alive, crucified and sold as slaves in the sex trade. i express my growing concern at the deteriorating humanitarian and human rights situation in syria and iraq and the violations of international humanitarian law perpetrated by is. in addition to condemning and hoping that the si will put an end to these practices, a concrete and real way of intervening would be to welcome these children into our countries. we must not wait for them to arrive in the hold of a ship or under a truck, but arrange for them to arrive. we are at a crossroads where we can continue to arm and support the people with humanitarian aid or we can try to find a solution on the ground. for example, an attempt could be made to establish a "neutral-cushion" zone for refugees. all in the hope that peace will one day shine in that area too.
in writing. i support the resolution condemning the crimes committed by is in iraq and syria.
in writing. - the war raging in syria and iraq is likely to have a devastating impact on the human rights situation in both countries, not only at this stage of the conflict but also in the long term in these already tormented lands. with this joint resolution, for which i am voting in favour, parliament is sending a strong and urgent message to the member states to make every effort, as far as possible in a difficult phase of conflict, to support the neighbouring countries now engaged in supporting the humanitarian emergency. the european union, in agreement with the united nations and other forces in the region, must now propose an ambitious strategy to facilitate as much as possible humanitarian support and lay the foundations for future reconstruction.
in writing. what is happening in syria and iraq is shocking the whole world. we strongly condemn the systematic and widespread human rights violations committed by both the assad regime and the terrorism of isis, forcing millions of people to flee their homes. an unprecedented humanitarian crisis, which needs more and more immediate aid. we therefore call for a new donor conference to be convened to ensure that the commitments made are fulfilled as soon as possible. we are therefore voting in favour of the european union adopting a comprehensive regional strategy to defeat isis, help mitigate the effects of this humanitarian crisis and end the conflict in iraq and syria. a strategy which must also take account of the aid needed to those countries which are hosting refugees from the conflict, without forgetting, however, that only by achieving a political transition in syria and a truly inclusive government in iraq can the region embark on the path of peace.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because it sends a message of condemnation of the brutal violence perpetrated by the islamic state in both iranian and syrian territories. over 7.6 million syrians have been internally displaced and another 3.8 million have fled to neighbouring areas. i believe that the eu must, with all its strength, counter the phenomenon of terrorism through a shared commitment involving all the main actors of the international community, in defence of democracy and human rights.
in writing. i have expressed my agreement with the joint resolution on the situation in iraq and syria, because, first of all, it sends a strong message of condemnation of the unacceptable acts of violence perpetrated by is in the area comprising the two countries and under its control. the ongoing conflicts in iraq and the violent crisis in syria have brought about a catastrophe without precedent in history. over 7.6 million syrians have been displaced, while another 3.8 million have fled to neighboring countries. i believe that the european union, an example of civilization and social progress, should not miss an opportunity to declare itself the enemy of anyone who represents the weakest. the advance of the terrorist organisation, followed by the outbreak of a full-blown crisis within these countries, must be countered, as indicated in the resolution, by a shared commitment involving all the main actors of the international community. in this regard, i welcome the new eu strategy to support syria and iraq against the is threat and, in particular, the €1 billion package to contribute to peace and security in the area.
in writing. the humanitarian situation in iraq and syria continues to deteriorate day by day, with hundreds of thousands of refugees and displaced persons in need of assistance of all kinds. we strongly condemn the atrocities, the systematic abuse and violation of human rights in the area, the killing of hostages and the abuse of women and children. while we appreciate the rapid deployment of the european civil protection mechanism, we believe that it is still an insufficient instrument to meet the needs of the civilian populations involved. we therefore call for greater involvement of europe, with its greater economic participation in the humanitarian programmes of the united nations, and for better involvement and cooperation with the work of other international organizations involved in the field. perhaps the opening of an eu office in erbil could help to improve the visibility and effectiveness of european action and thus also to promote more effective coordination of humanitarian assistance.
in writing. - the violence perpetrated by the terrorist organisation isil/daesh has created an unsustainable situation for the population in the areas under terrorist control. the humanitarian catastrophe generated is of unprecedented proportions in history. in the absence of a coherent response from the international community, isis has managed to take over ever larger swathes of iraqi and syrian territory. the threat has come to the west through the actions of so-called "foreign fighters". the humanitarian crisis linked to the difficulty of creating humanitarian corridors to bring aid to the populations in need, coupled with the harsh winter, requires an immediate response on several fronts. isis is entrenching its power and has established sharia courts in the territory under its control, which, with the support of a special penal code, impose punishments such as amputation, stoning and crucifixion on those accused of violating extremist interpretations of islamic sharia law. i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on this subject because i believe that only a globally coordinated humanitarian response and a careful exchange of information between states can limit the spread of this threat to the entire international community.
in writing. we can no longer even realize the immensity of the tragedy that syria (and iraq again) is experiencing, addicted to constant images of war coming from too many countries from all over the world. the humanitarian crisis that has been triggered by the war and the expansion of is in syria and iraq must be met with a strong response by the international community, first of all with a long-term strategy. solving this crisis should be part of our strategy to defeat isis: the two go hand in hand. the huge numbers of people who have taken refuge in neighbouring countries are putting a strain on these countries, which are already burdened with internal tensions, and if the numbers do not decrease in the near future this situation could further aggravate the crisis in the middle east region. the eu's assistance, which is being provided and can continue to be provided, including through the opening of its office in kurdistan as announced by the high representative federica mogherini, remains essential. but on the other hand, we cannot ignore the intervention of the united nations in order to bring to justice those who have committed atrocious crimes against humanity in these territories. this too will be essential to ensure lasting peace in the region.
in writing. i welcome the resolution on the humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria and express my growing concern at the worsening situation in the two countries which has led to the repeated violation of international humanitarian law, as we have seen in the context of the isil/daesh insurgency. i think we are now aware of the threat posed by isil/daesh and the danger it poses to the entire region. the european union must put in place a clear and effective strategy to defeat the threat of isil/daesh, resolve the humanitarian crisis and contribute to ending the conflict in iraq and syria. at the same time; the european union must find a viable and lasting solution to the emergency of the increasing number of migrants crossing the mediterranean from war zones. it is necessary and a priority to prepare a european strategy of solidarity and support for the member states most affected by the disembarkation of migrants.
in writing. - (§ 5/1) i decided to vote in favour of the resolution as it supports the global campaign against isil/daesh and welcomes the commitment of the coalition partners to cooperate in a common, articulated and long-term strategy to defeat isil/daesh; on paragraph 17, i decided to vote against, as it calls for the union and its member states to make full use of the eu guidelines on the promotion and protection of the enjoyment of all human rights by lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (lgbti) persons in relation to iraq and syria.
before the debate i wanted to inform you that i am very sorry that it is impossible to utilise the blue card during this debate because there are a lot of speakers and also a lot of debates, first of all the debate with the president of the council, the president of the commission and then with the president of the european central bank.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are convinced that the energy union is right and necessary, but if we look at the major projects being planned to solve new problems, we are reiterating the solutions of fifty years ago in a geopolitical and geological context that has changed substantially. we are talking about an energy union built only on macro-connections between nations and only on the ability to reverse macro-flows. it doesn't matter what form of energy is flowing through it. it is not a matter of whether there may not be as many suppliers outside the eu who are able or willing to give everyone the energy they need tomorrow. it does not matter if even today adjacent apartments are not made to exchange energy independently of monopolies. it's been assumed that this downhill union automatically generates resilience, but it leads us to another dead end, to new dependencies and great disappointments. for the times in which we live and will live, we consider appropriate another form of energy union where the indigenous generation and diffused food sources flow inverted compared to the past from individual houses and power stations to the large connectors necessary is true, but to calm the intermittency of renewables of local seasonal and circadian variations in climate and light between distant areas. we learn from water and plants: the smallest drop of dew still feeds its basin, rivers spring from countless branches, trees push their roots deeper in times of drought. we are the first in the world to achieve the renewable energy union, the democratic energy internet. let us free ourselves forever from the slavery of imports, from the devastation of climate and ecosystems, from wars, from political dependence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to express my appreciation for the work of our vice-president. we recognize that the proposal you are presenting to us is a great step forward, but we ask that the commission be consistent and tenacious in its implementation. there are two points of great value in this proposal: the first is precisely about energy and a task of greater integration. all our legislative packages have still left 28 markets quite disconnected in some respects and this certainly creates an element of weakness at home, but also weakness in international relations. if we are preparing for major trade agreements with developed parts of the world, we know that we will either regulate our energy market better or we will have difficulties, not opportunities. so one requirement: i like that this need is met by looking to the future and not the past, that is to say, to the issue of energy transition not as an imposition but as a way to create development and employment, hence courage and foresight. the second value is to aim for greater unity: the european union's future is not only a european union of the future, but also a european union of the future. the aim of political integration, of political union, is also a value of this proposal for me.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have read the commission's document on the priorities for achieving the energy union and, to be honest, we have already stopped at the first page. we have stopped at the point where we talk about a grand vision for a sustainable, fossil-free and decarbonised energy union. so we said to ourselves: but is the commission aware that in spain the already vast areas of territory where oil is extracted by the fracking technique are multiplying? is the commission aware that croatia has granted oil exploration licences for half of the adriatic sea and that the other half will be extracted from italy? does the commission know that southern italy has the largest onshore oil field in europe and yet the italian government has decided to double extraction in areas where the highest rates of cancer in europe are found? does the commission know that people are protesting in the streets in these countries because they do not want oil? vice-president, we just want to know when we're going to stop pumping oil out of our land and our seas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-president šefčovič, the debate on the energy union is a very welcome one. today a colleague of mine in the european people's party made a very effective statement, saying that we should not talk about energy union because it already exists and it is called the european union. so the real question is whether we are just making statements of principle or whether there is substance behind these auspicious signs. we produce energy in 28 different ways, and we circulate it with difficulty because we have very weak interconnection systems. so perhaps the problem is not so much to identify the enemy - because of our lack of energy independence which costs us a billion euros a day - the problem is to identify a common strategy. i suggest a common strategy, not only for myself, but for many colleagues who share my view. the common strategy sees energy as a tool for development. europe without manufacturing is dying. she's dying a little bit already, so let's help her keep her rhetoric down.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european energy union was and is a necessity for the european union and is the only way to ensure energy security and a reduction in dependence on imports of fossil fuels, but the energy union must be achieved immediately in order to foster a fully integrated energy market capable of stimulating energy efficiency, innovation in low-carbon and renewable technologies, energy saving and the strengthening of consumer rights, which should be able to benefit from lower energy tariffs. the creation of the energy union must, however, be achieved through increased support for energy research. only increased investment in research can lead to effective solutions, for example for electricity storage, the development of new generation renewable energy and ict management increasingly integrated with the energy system. an energy transition in this sense is crucial to strengthening the technological leadership of the european union, but above all to respond to one of the most important challenges facing the member states, namely the creation of quality jobs and for young people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis in ukraine, the crisis in the middle east, show that europe can no longer wait to reduce its dependence on external suppliers. sixty years after the economic community of coal and steel, we are still importing half our needs, a dependence which is driving us towards recession and paralysing us in the management of political and geostrategic instability, a slavery, in short. so welcome a union that seeks to ensure affordability, reduce emissions and exploit our resources. because our resources are there, on alternative sources, which is why we need to encourage research and innovation. but we also need to encourage smart infrastructure with a new reindustrialisation target which also takes advantage of more resources, i think, for example in the context of horizon 2020.
in writing. the communications adopted this morning by the commission and at the heart of the debate on the energy union we are having in parliament are of major strategic importance. as commissioner šefčovič has rightly said, the european project must be firmly based on the principles of trust and solidarity if it is to continue to grow. until now, energy policies have been the preserve of the member states with the resultant and obvious problems of dependence, dispersion and insufficient interconnection. each step towards a single energy market strengthens security of supply and allows for a stronger common policy for the now indispensable energy transition to a low-carbon model. the need to reduce dependence on third countries is not the only factor, but also the need to provide investment certainty, which is a key lever for achieving this 'historic' transformation. a transition that benefits citizens, businesses and the environment. the commission has outlined its vision today, and it is now important to move as quickly as possible to the operational phase. it will be important to ensure that progress on energy efficiency remains central in the overall strategic framework, not only in transport and construction, but also in the generation phase.
in writing. the development of ambitious energy, industrial and environmental policies is perhaps the european union's main priority for action in the coming years. the economic crisis requires us to move even more quickly and boldly towards high quality standards, inspired by the goals of innovation and sustainability. that is why the s&d group welcomed with great satisfaction the two important votes which were carried out yesterday in the committee on the environment, on the market for the stability of emission reserves and the reform of biofuels. these are crucial measures, which complete the policy and regulatory framework that the european commission's proposal for an energy union aims to define. we hope, commissioner, that the member states' response will now be as far-sighted: i hope that the dialogue with the parliament which you have established in these first weeks of your mandate will lead to important reforms for the real economy and environmental sustainability.
in writing. of the objectives set for this legislature, the achievement of the energy union is both one of the most complex and one of the most necessary. this objective includes many other objectives such as energy security and efficiency and the development of alternative sources, and it is also a very powerful tool for realising the enormous potential of the single market. in particular, given the recent geopolitical instability, it is becoming more and more important to ensure independence from costly energy imports on the one hand and to invest in energy efficiency to avoid waste on the other. this investment, which is admittedly costly, would be matched by an increase in jobs (particularly in the construction sector) and a consequent general boost to the european economy. an ambitious plan is needed, involving investment in research and development, digital technology and new technologies, a different industrial plan and, at the base, the strengthening of a bond of trust and solidarity between the member states. either the energy union is implemented with this broad perspective or it will hardly be able to produce the desired results.
president-in-office of the council. - mr president, it is a pleasure to be with you again after this month’s meeting of the european council. the main purpose of informal summits is to discuss and consult, not to negotiate. our meeting was short and the outcome quite concise. it took place against the background of rapidly-changing events. of the four great challenges on the table, the first was ukraine. we had an exchange with ukraine’s president, petro poroshenko. he joined us to present the minsk ceasefire and to share his assessment of the situation on the ground. we thanked chancellor merkel and president hollande for their indispensable efforts for peace as the initiators of the normandy four talks. we gave the fragile agreement our cautious support. the european union still hopes for peace so that the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine can be restored as soon as possible. however, we remain very sceptical. the 2014 minsk agreement was not honoured. debate among the leaders focused on how to support the implementation of the new peace deal. if this does not happen, we will not hesitate to take the necessary steps. the ceasefire, which was supposed to take effect at midnight on 15 february, has been violated more than 800 times according to the osce. i am in contact with chancellor merkel and president hollande and in consultation with all leaders. the european union stands united on this question and will stay the course. additional sanctions remain on the table. we should be ready for any development, good or bad. on 12 february, leaders recalled the terrible attacks in paris which killed 17 people. we committed ourselves to a new counter-terrorism work plan. this is set out in the joint statement adopted at the summit. the new work plan mainly requires the european union to do what it is already doing in the field of internal security, but we need to do specific things better and faster, such as making far better use of the security arrangements of schengen or reviewing regulations for firearms. the recent fatal attack in copenhagen underlines the necessity. these attacks only strengthen our determination to fight all kinds of extremism and terrorism. i take this opportunity to express our deepest sympathy and support to denmark, the danish people and the families of the victims. although libya was not on the agenda of the february informal european council, the terrible and dangerous events in that country are the latest convincing reason to address this pressing issue. national security is a matter for national governments. nevertheless, there are important areas where we can support each other and where common action is even vital. in that respect, i warmly welcome the recent progress towards restarting the negotiations on an eu agreement on passenger name records. i have no doubt that we can effectively protect the security of citizens without diminishing the right to privacy. your help on this issue is absolutely crucial and invaluable. the european council will come back to this matter in june, amongst other things. meanwhile our countries will face this threat together, calmly and with determination. as for greece, our february meeting was clearly not the right moment for uncoordinated negotiations on the greek assistance programme. we heard from the president of the eurogroup, who outlined what the state of play was in discussions with greece. we welcomed prime minister tsipras as a new member of the european council, who gave us his view of the situation. we agreed that the talks would go on, as they did, at ministerial level so that common ground could be found. i had no doubt that this would happen. close contacts were maintained with all the relevant parties so that agreement could be reached in principle at the eurogroup last friday. i was glad to see eurozone ministers give the green light to greece’s reform plans yesterday. finally, we briefly considered the future of economic and monetary union itself. we need to improve economic policy-making in the eurozone. all the principal authors of the so-called four presidents’ report were in the room, so the setting was right to open this discussion. president juncker presented background analysis and posed questions that need to be answered if we are to achieve better economic governance. however, one point is already perfectly clear. after the recent decision of the ecb, the priority is to make national economies more compatible with monetary union. this cannot be done from brussels but through strong political ownership of economic reforms at national level. we now look ahead to the march european council. in the next three weeks we will follow the situation in ukraine and in libya day by day with great precision. the march summit will also be a time to consider the strategic outlook for the eastern and southern neighbourhoods. we will continue our discussion on the european economy and, of course, we will also focus on an issue that is as close to my own heart as it is to many in this parliament, that is, the urgent need for a european energy union, as vice-president šefčovič has just outlined. the european union can – and must – make progress in this area soon. (applause)
president of the commission. - mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the council meeting of 12 february was an informal council, without any decision being taken. it was a useful council and, despite the announcements that had been made, it was a council without drama. it was short and it was effective, as was its president. we have obviously discussed the fight against terrorism a few weeks after the events in paris and on this point we agreed that the schengen agreements are not a problem. schengen is a response to the problem and we have therefore rejected, on the basis of the commission's proposals, any idea of making massive and substantive amendments to the schengen agreements. when it comes to fighting terrorism, there is no room for haste. the answers to terrorism are not made in a hurry. remember the mistakes our american friends made immediately after the 9/11 attacks in new york and washington. you have to stay calm, but you have to stay serious. we have done this with the single european register of passenger data. on this point, mr president, i would like to pay tribute to this house for agreeing to reverse a decision taken by one of your committees. i would like to pay tribute to you personally, mr president, because you have done everything possible to bring parliament, its various committees, its bodies and its members closer to the viewpoint of the commission which preceded mine. i do not criticize parliament for the decision it seemed to have taken a few months ago, because respect for fundamental rights and civil liberties is one of the considerations which also motivate the commission's action. but on this point, we must act and react with severity. we discussed the european energy union at the council on 11 february. the commission took a decision this morning. personally, i have always considered - though i have not always done so - that major projects should be launched at the beginning of the parliamentary term. if i had done it in my previous life, the outcome would have been better. but as president of the commission, i would like to see major projects, those which reflect the commission's priorities, started immediately. the result was that we agreed on a green paper on the capital markets union. i know guy doesn't like the fact that the commission is presenting a green paper - he might prefer a blue paper, but that would have a partisan connotation. philippe, of course, likes the green books, but the answers have to be ultra-green, too. we'll see at the autopsy if i dare say so. we have launched, as i said, an energy union. we have made sure that the commission's work and working methods are made clear. we intend to take all the necessary decisions on the digital single market, and we will do so in may. all the commission's major projects have therefore been started and the related initiatives will be launched shortly and in order. at the council meeting chaired by president tusk, we presented an analytical study on the causes of the crisis in the economic and monetary union. since this was the easiest part, we presented our colleagues in the european council with a questionnaire on the main points concerning the future of economic and monetary union. i read that some people were sorry i only asked questions. but if you don't ask questions, you don't get answers. if we want answers - and i want answers on the essential dimension of economic and monetary union - we have to ask questions. we will discuss them with president tusk, president dijsselbloem and president draghi in the coming weeks and we will associate the president of the european parliament as closely as possible in this exercise. i should like to make it clear that this is a report by the four chairmen. so we'll include martin schulz. it is not a report of the four institutions plus the european parliament. it is a personal matter and i would therefore like, as the other presidents have done so far, that we should confine ourselves to examining our own ideas. not the ones from our institution. i personally have never had a debate in the commission. donald has never had a debate in the european council. as for mr draghi, as he is independent, i do not know what he has done, but we, the others, who are dependent, must know that this is a report which reflects the personal views of the five presidents and i welcome the fact that the president of parliament is associated with this exercise. as regards the investment plan, which is wrongly named after me - but i like it - i would like to pay tribute to the european parliament, its committees and its two rapporteurs, who are doing an excellent job. mr bullmann and mr fernández are working hard to enable parliament to take a decision on this plan and the accompanying legislative texts by june at the latest. i stress the need for a parliamentary decision in june. i would remind you, mr president, that i consciously chose the community method for adopting these texts. it would have been possible for the commission and the council alone to take the decisions, but i wanted to involve the european parliament in the community method, which i keep saying we must rehabilitate, and we have done so on this point. we have today, as the college of commissioners, taken a decision on budgetary aspects which concern a number of member states - not just one, but several member states. since the attention of the general public, including parliamentary attention, has been focused on the case of france, i wanted to tell you that we have just decided today to invite france to reduce its structural deficit this year, in 2015, by 0.5%, which will mean that the french government will have to amend the budget it voted for 2015 by 0.2%. we would like france to reduce its structural deficit by 0.75%, 0.8% or 0.9% in 2016. we will give france an additional two years, but we will intensify the procedure concerning macroeconomic imbalances. france will therefore be - excuse the expression - under increased surveillance. i would like to say that the commission will be more closely involved in the budgetary adjustments. so we work, we do what we can. we cannot do everything you want us to do, but we are waiting for the european parliament to support our action. without the european parliament, the commission is deaf and dumb. she can't speak or act. so let us act.
i would like to thank mr juncker very much for his announcement that the document on the future of europe will be signed by five presidents. it would have been incomprehensible, inexplicable and unjust to exclude the european parliament. the european parliament deserves to be involved because of the president and the value of the institutions. i'm going to say three things quickly. the first: the agreement reached on greece is positive. we must make it clear to everyone that the outcome of the elections must be respected and that it is unthinkable to think of a return to victory. there is a government in power, whether it likes it or not, i don't like it very much, but it exists. we must understand the meaning of that election result, the rejection of austerity, and we must understand that the government today must act and must move from the propaganda phase to the phase of choosing concrete nodes. we need a serious reform process that involves tax equity, social equity, public administration reform, the fight against corruption. we'll measure our ability to respond to all of this. second point: foreign policy, ukraine. president tusk said, and i thank him, 'a fragile agreement', but whatever it is, we must make it more solid, keeping the pressure on russia high and doing all we have to do to consolidate a ceasefire and possibly turn it into peace. the following countries: thank you, president tusk, for mentioning libya. libya is a dramatic emergency and is not receiving sufficient and appropriate attention. from there come untold dangers for all of us. we must be absolutely focused, and i am convinced that our high representative, federica mogherini, will give the right answers. finally, immigration and lampedusa. we just upgraded triton, but i think that's not enough, i think we should try to make mare nostrum european. finally, the fight against terrorism, i conclude, no prejudicial to the pnr, we go ahead, but we know that it is not enough to have the pnr to defeat terrorism, we must do many other things and i hope that we will be able to do them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at their recent meeting the heads of government discussed the future of greece. is it possible that no one sees the problem? who else but the greeks must decide the future of their country? yet we are here to discuss what has been decided in berlin, what brussels thinks and how paris is reacting. europe is based on the surrender of sovereignty, that is clear, but when the entire destiny of a people is in the hands of others, perhaps we have done something wrong. meanwhile, greek prime minister tsipras has abandoned all his claims, crushed by a germany that wanted to punish one to educate a hundred. other countries are warned. but who are merkel and juncker to decide for the greeks? what right do these "ayatollahs of austerity" have to bring whole peoples to their knees? and how is it possible to think that a debt of 175 percent of gdp can be paid off through cuts and sacrifices? these are the questions we must face, because the crisis in greece is not greek but european and it is not economic but political. it is the crisis of a small european country which has the gdp of an italian or french region that could be saved in a moment. it's a storm in a teacup. it is the crisis of a weak and cowardly europe, where politicians look only at their narrow national horizon. the crisis in europe is not a lack of liquidity or confidence, but a lack of statistics, and for that, ladies and gentlemen, i see no cure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must coordinate our efforts to assist and support the efforts of all the countries of the world involved in the fight against terrorism and in the process of peace. we do this to protect every person: we are the ones who are responsible for our safety, our society and its principles. a comprehensive approach to the fight against terrorism, mr president, must not and cannot be limited to dealing with the most immediate conflicts such as that in libya, but must extend our action in a coordinated manner to include the entire international terror network. too many forgotten foci. in sub-saharan africa, the chaos that has engulfed northern nigeria, shaken by the islamist boko haram insurgency, is one of these forgotten crises. a threat that is identical to that posed by the daesh terrorist group in libya and the middle east. we can no longer stand by and remain indifferent to barbarism wherever it is consumed.
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be brief, as was the european council of 12 february. i will respond to two or three remarks which have been made and which concern the commission in particular. i would first like to congratulate mr maurel - who seems to be a french socialist - for saying exactly the opposite of what the french socialist government tells me day after day. that's remarkable. i would then like to commend him on his sense of humour because he started by saying that we are many to talk. how many? you have a sense of humor, sir. - what? i will answer him and others that i never said that the elections would be a neutral event. i made a remark, a simple statement of common sense: the results of elections do not change the treaties. greece has taken a sovereign decision and i respect the expression of universal greek suffrage. a lot more than others. but the greek vote did not result in the european treaties and rules being annulled by the mere expression of universal greek suffrage. next sunday, estonia is going to vote. in april, finland will vote. other countries will vote. do you really think that after every election we should be questioning treaties and rules? you're killing europe with that kind of talk. so don't repeat them, because you're offending common sense, which you'd better respect. but i admit that it seems to be very unevenly distributed across europe and among the parliamentary groups. in recent days there has been much criticism of the commission, in a roundabout way, by asking journalists to write what governments thought. the commission has been criticised for its involvement in the debate on greece. it's still remarkable! the previous commission was criticised - very often wrongly - for not being sufficiently involved in the management of the affairs of economic and monetary union. now the present commission is being criticised for taking too much interest in the collective and joint management of the single currency! the president of the commission, who has not been in the forefront, is not meant to divide europe. it is designed to unite europe, where unity is at stake. my social objective is the unity of europe, the fight against the wanton, fortuitous breaking of european cohesion. we have therefore done what we had to do and i tell you that if we had not done what we have done there would have been no agreement on greece. i like some of the zungenschläge in the debate not so much. why are we always talking about someone getting in? when someone is through, he's always through with others. is the question today, whether greece has been forced to accept the euro? the debate was supposed to have no meaning. in europe, the solution is the european solution. it is not just a question of the european parliament. listen to this, and i say this: political schwachsinn, der darin besteht nach, jeder entscheidung zu prüfen, wer sich durchgesetzt hat. this is the first time i've heard of this. in europe nobody needs to be forced to think, it is the european thinking that must be forced to think!
president of european council. - mr president, honourable members, just two short remarks. first about ukraine. i fully agree with what guy verhofstadt has said, that we need a more proactive strategy and i fully agree that unity is not merely a substitute for strategy. i am sure that you know what my intention is when we are talking about a new strategy – i am sure that you have no doubt what i mean. but unity for sure is the first and main condition to do anything in this area. we need strategy, but without unity there is no strategy with any chance of success in this problem. the first reason is a practical reason. all actions, for example sanctions, need consensus in the european council. this is why unity is not my dream or something like an ideology; this is a practical condition for doing anything about this problem. we also have a second reason for talking about unity and how important unity is today. i deeply believe, and i do not think that it is a surprise for you, that one of the most important goals for president putin today is to divide europe and the whole western community. this is the second reason why i am so obsessed about unity among member states, and also in the wider perspective, meaning the whole western community. for sure we have to discuss our strategy during the next european council in march, but we have to remember that it will make sense only if we stay united. the second remark is about greece. this discussion is not about ideology; it is not about war against greece. i do not feel that greece wants to be a permanent troublemaker in europe. in fact this is a discussion and these are negotiations about help. greece needs help today; greece needs money today; it is not being an obstruction – and we have no time. the negotiations are between member states, between partners, between friends. the first public declaration i heard from prime minister tsipras after the greek elections was that greece wants to remain a member of the eurozone. the second was that they need our help. i have not heard any realistic proposal of help for greece from russia or china. the only possibility to help greece is cooperation between member states of the eurozone, the european union, and also possibly international financial institutions. this is why we need to work together without these thoughts dividing us. i am sure that it is also clear to greek citizens. i have no doubt that the majority of them understand very well that we need good cooperation in europe and that we should not fight against each other. this is why i ask, because of this problem, that we have more respect for each other during the discussion. if we feel offended, then this process will be much more difficult than today and i am sure that we are ready to have a decent and open discussion and not to offend each other. this is my request.
in writing. the discussion of european leaders on the fight against terrorism was fruitful and i hope that it will succeed in giving a really decisive direction to the strengthening of counter-terrorism measures in the european union. i think the heads of state or government have clearly identified the three pillars on which work will have to be concentrated in the coming months: the security of citizens, the prevention of radicalisation and the protection of european values, and cooperation with international partners. a general consensus is therefore emerging that a coherent and effective counter-terrorism strategy must be based on a multidisciplinary approach. the european leaders also stressed the need to adopt urgently a strong and effective directive on a european reservation code system (pnr) which also includes strong data protection safeguards. i believe that this approach to pnr should be a small-scale example of the whole european union's counter-terrorism strategy, which must include swift and decisive measures without compromising the fundamental rights of european citizens. we cannot accept that an external threat undermines the values on which the european union is founded.
in writing. the summit meeting on 12 february had on its agenda issues of great importance and urgency: the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december last gave a clear signal to the european parliament that it was ready to take action in the field of the internal market. the summit, however, does not seem to have produced any major results. the most significant is the agreement on a declaration on the fight against terrorism, which indicates areas and a path for action, and calls for the rapid adoption of some measures already under discussion, including the european pnr. while we share the need to deal with the emergency of terrorism and international crime, we believe that any restrictions on freedom must strictly respect the principle of proportionality and must not go beyond what is necessary and essential to combat these phenomena.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr draghi, it is with great pleasure that i am speaking today in this debate, not only because i had the opportunity to participate in the drafting of the european central bank's 2013 report as shadow rapporteur, but above all because, together with all of you, i have witnessed the central role that the central bank is playing in supporting the european project, i would say not always with the adequate support from other institutions or all member states. i thank the rapporteur, mr zalba bidegain, for giving us the opportunity to discuss this matter openly and to contribute to the drafting of this report in several parts in a shared way. the report was about 2013 but, given the delay, we did not fail to focus on what happened also in 2014 and this early 2015, in this almost incessant activity of the central bank, which tried to counter the decline in the level of inflation to the state of full recession in some countries and the slowdown of the real economy to deflation in some cases, with policies that tried in all ways to add liquidity to the system and that often, as was recalled, also encountered the viscosity of the situation, which did not always favor the positive transfer of the effects of monetary policies, the liquidity infusions through the policies on abs and ltros until this early 2015 in which the central bank also decided this important, massive, quantitative easing policy. i do not think that this distracts the attention of the member states from continuing the process of reform and from paying attention to their budgetary policies, but there was certainly an urgent need if we wanted to transform, to change definitively this progressive deterioration of the level of inflation and the achievement of deflationary positions in some countries. i think we have to thank president draghi for what he has done so far. i am reminded of the famous 'whatever it takes' speech in london, which sent an important signal to the market about the irreversibility of the euro zone, and i also think that with jackson hole, together with the italian presidency, it contributed to a change in european policies which no longer looked only at fiscal rigidity and stability, but introduced the theme of flexibility and growth in a clear way, certainly alongside the reforms we continue to see. there is one issue, however, that is the last point that president draghi has raised today. (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president draghi, yesterday you expressed some concerns about the commitments made by greece. i would like to ask you if it is not enough for you to have won this battle with tsipras, but if you want to win the war with greece directly because that is what we are talking about. it is not a war fought by armies, of course, but an economic and financial conflict in which the greek people are to blame and which we cannot accept. the greek people wanted to send a strong signal at the last elections, the anti-establishment parties are now in the majority and it is right that this should be the case because those who have governed the greek country for the last twenty years are certainly the main culprits of the situation we are in today, guilty for example of having rigged the accounts to enter the single currency with the complicity of brussels, of course, this is where many of the problems that we have not yet been able to solve have started. there are calls from many quarters for greece to be given the chance to leave the euro and these are not dangerous subversives. the last authoritative statement is that of a staunch europeanist, former french president giscard d'estaing. president draghi, have you given any serious thought to what you're doing? you have deprived the greek people of their freedom of choice and made their decisions irrelevant. i appeal to the little intellectual honesty that still remains and i invite you to admit it. the president of the eurogroup betrayed the real intentions of this europe yesterday when he said that elections in one country cannot change the line already decided. that you have killed democracy in the very country that created it is also demonstrated by your choice, president draghi, to refuse, as soon as the new tsipras government took office, greek bonds as collateral, restricting the access of liquidity to the ela. the interests of banks and finance are more important to you than the choices and the will of a people. what meaning do you give to financial stability if people are out of work and can't make ends meet? the ecb's operations so far have been a failure, with the hundreds of billions of ltros not helping to revive the economy but only protecting the interests of the banks and the same will happen with the tltros and quantitative easing. the banking system, as it is structured, is certainly at the root of the current crisis. the only way out is to return to a real and complete banking separation, not to the watered-down proposal recently put forward by the commission, which is not a solution at all. president draghi, you have no popular legitimacy, but you are de facto ruling europe and you are quietly dictating its laws, and unfortunately this is not a metaphor. i hope that you will realize and acknowledge that this very serious democratic vulnus also has concrete and often dramatic effects on the lives of citizens, who are forced to endure absurd economic impositions and drastic social measures. president draghi, europe does not belong to you or the ecb. i suggest you start from this point the day you want to end this mess.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are 25 million unemployed in europe. there are 5 million young people out of work, families who can't make ends meet, businesses in crisis. there are 4 million poor people in italy. yet italy found a way to finance another "euro scam" like the bailout fund and found a way to lend 63 billion euros for the greek crisis. this is the bleak picture of europe and you, mr draghi, have also contributed to this failure or at least have not been able to prevent it. so i ask you: why does monetary and financial intervention by the ecb, the european commission and, in the case of italy, the italian government lead to a worsening of the economic situation of our citizens? who's wrong? whose fault is that? why has the credit granted by the ecb to european banks not benefited businesses and citizens? why has the ecb's rate cut not brought any benefits in terms of employment and economic recovery? the guilt? it is the euro and the european treaties that are killing our economy. it is a step forward, mr draghi.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a context of such a crisis, despite high levels of unemployment and negative or zero gdp growth and a very low rate of inflation with deflationary risks, the monetary policy of the ecb has nevertheless succeeded in restoring confidence in the financial markets and investors of the euro area, and for this, mr draghi, all europeans are grateful. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. today, for the first time, you explained the meaning of the term 'structural reforms' in detail: the commission has already taken steps to simplify administrative procedures, which is lacking in many countries and which continues to cause damage and delays to small and mediumsized enterprises. the main problem of this period is therefore more of a fiscal problem than a monetary one. the political contact between the ecb and the greek government in recent days cannot guarantee prospects for financial stability. we're seeing a market up and down every day. from the total contrast, two weeks ago, with the ecb's decision to no longer accept greek government bonds as collateral for loans, to the growth of greek stock exchanges, after the presentation of the new measures to revive the economy and the decision to extend the rescue plan until june, then passing through the two-week extension of the emergency liquidity plan granted to greek banks by the ecb. today we have the news that the ecb, the international monetary fund and the eurogroup have given their blessing to the programme of the greek government which, although unclear, seems to offer a chance against the risk of bankruptcy. and then, in the afternoon, the statement of the greek minister of finance: we will not have liquidity problems in the public sector, but we will have problems paying the international monetary fund now and the ecb in july. that is precisely the climate of uncertainty that must be resolved. because you know that europe's credibility is at stake in this matter. if you do not have the capacity, and i am sure you will, to act decisively, europe will remain in the transparency of the new 20 euro note.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr zalba bidegain's report is a good document which, obviously, also for reasons of time, but not only for this reason, presents a gap between the concerned and correct analysis of the downward trends in inflation and the relative caution in relation to the need for a qualitative leap in the ecb's unconventional monetary policy measures. fortunately, the european central bank has had the capacity, the strength and the independence to make the choice to make this qualitative leap and thus to make full use of its prerogatives to fulfil its mandate, guaranteeing a credible increase in its budget through, in fact, the purchase programme of 60 billion per month in private and public securities. a timely measure? this is a measure which, as president draghi rightly said, has a high rate of transmission to the real economy and which is fully within the scope of the mandate given to the ecb by the treaties. of course, unconventional monetary policy measures are a necessary but not sufficient condition for dealing with the macroeconomic problems that we have before us and so it is perfectly true what the report says and that they must be placed in a wider context, in an appropriate policy mix that must be based on investment policies, on structural reforms and on a capacity to achieve fiscal consolidation that is not pro-cyclical but actually growth-friendly. in this sense, i must say that the recent communication on flexibility and the decisions that the commission is taking are also moving in the right direction and, together with the launch of the juncker plan, show the awareness of the need to achieve an effective policy mix, in line with the well-known speech of jackson hole. the independence of the ecb requires, as has been said, transparency, accountability and accountability requires transparency and so naturally parliament and the econ committee particularly welcome the publication of the minutes of the governing council meetings, the breadth of which we appreciate, and at the same time we understand and share the limits of confidentiality which we feel are necessary. the european parliament is also fully aware of its responsibilities as the single supervisor as assigned to us by the regulation and the interinstitutional agreement and we will seek to exercise these prerogatives to the full. the first steps of the ssm are encouraging, but due attention must also be paid to the risk that the necessary strengthening of prudential requirements will not have a procyclical effect, in some way, that will counterbalance the policy mix that is being built to put europe back on the path to growth. finally, economic and monetary union. i very much appreciate the considerations in the helsinki speech, repeated today by president draghi, on the need to make a qualitative leap from rules-based to institution-based integration. parliament has spoken on this and will continue to speak in the report by mrs berès. it is certainly striking how, let us say, sparse the document presented to the european council and the issues involved are. we would not like to start from scratch, but on the basis of the work we did in the last legislature with the commission document and the reports to the four previous presidents, this process of deepening economic and monetary union is actually making the necessary qualitative leap.
on behalf of the bureau, i would remind members that the presence of mr draghi had been communicated to the chairmen of the groups and that he could stay until 7.15 p.m. and the chairmen said that the debate had to continue.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we had any doubts about the fact that we are subject to a monetary dictatorship by the ecb, today's behaviour would have confirmed it. the ecb's initiatives can only try to slow down the negative effects, then deliberately underestimated, of the euro and its rules, the main causes of europe's lack of structural growth. without the variable exchange rate, you have chosen to deprive the european citizens of the first alarm bell to the systemic crisis and the first opportunity for economic recovery in our countries. constâncio in athens admitted that the european crisis was mainly a private debt crisis and you have focused on the public debt of the states the austerity rules necessary to maintain this cage called the euro. you're making fun of us! and even if the ecb does not understand that the time has come to discuss again what is now considered irreversible, the end of the european union as well as the eurozone is near, it is close. we simply want our monetary sovereignty back, to be free peoples again and not subject to this monetary dictatorship, mr draghi.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. after five years of waiting, the ecb has fired the last shot in a desperate attempt to revive the eurozone economy, but quantitative easing comes too late to effectively counter the deflationary spiral. as with previous ltros, the most likely outcome is that the surge of liquidity inflows will be trapped in the vortex of speculative finance and not reach the real economy. this is because the main issues that continue to block credit and productive investment in europe, primarily the fight against speculation and the need for fiscal harmonization, have not been resolved, and instead everything has been focused on structural reforms and austerity. for monetary policy to be effective, in fact, the eurozone urgently needs a genuine structural reform of the banking system, based on the separation of credit and financial activities, to bring banks back to the practice of accumulating savings for the sole purpose of guaranteeing credit to the real economy. moreover, the european version of qe, the quintessential unconventional monetary policy measure, has already become the symbol of a failed monetary union and of an 'unconventional central bank' which, as demonstrated by the need to limit the risk-sharing on the ecb to a paltry 8%, is not even capable of expressing a single monetary policy.
the following is the text of the joint statement by the european union and the united states of america, the european union and its member states, the european union and its member states, the european union and its member states, and the united states of america, on the situation in venezuela (2015/2582 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me say frankly that the venezuelan crisis seems to me to be just one of the many chapters in the wider geopolitical and energy conflict we have been witnessing in recent months, no more or less than ukraine, unfortunately. it is no secret that over the past 15 years, venezuela and russia have signed 200 economic cooperation agreements, 57 of which are already operational, and china is investing 17 billion euros in projects in the country. in this sense, the blow caused by the vertical collapse of oil, crude oil at $50 a barrel, is undoubtedly also a coup de grâce, although it is still unclear whether the producing countries that have pushed it are side by side with one of the main players in the fields or have a role as autonomous players. instead of seriously reflecting on our role as the european union and as a global actor in this potential escalation of titanic proportions, i would say that unfortunately i see a football-fan atmosphere in this chamber, too often to the point of assuming the role of wise mediators and defenders of peace. because too many words on the one hand and too many silences on the other accompany the unjust tragedy of the death of kluivert roa and the many dark points of the story should push us to use common sense, to wait for the work of the judiciary, but unfortunately a media case is sometimes a too tempting communication tool. we will stand firm and continue to condemn in no uncertain terms any form of violation of human rights and any restriction on freedom of expression, but we also condemn any form of improper interference in a sovereign state and we will not be satisfied with convenient, prepackaged truths. we hope that venezuela will soon be able to hold free and credible elections and that the confrontation will be political and non-violent, also because we do not want the murderer of roa to become another, small murderer of francisco ferdinando and we believe in the great role of the south american countries in mediation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in its resolution last december the european parliament had already pointed out that in venezuela peaceful protests against the government of president maduro had led to a disproportionate use of violence against demonstrators by the police and members of the national guard and uncontrolled armed groups. a year after the protests began, venezuela is once again experiencing moments of high tension and a 14-year-old boy, as we have already mentioned, was shot dead during a protest organized in san cristóbal. the news coming from venezuela is still very confused and fragmented and even though president maduro condemned the murder, it cannot be overstated that the student killed is the first victim of the measure launched on january 30 by the ministry of defense of the maduro government, which allowed the army to start using firearms during demonstrations and public gatherings. in addition to expressing our condolences to the young man's family, i believe that this parliament and therefore the european union must do more, by strongly condemning the use of violence against the protesters and the new measure introduced by the maduro government, which i personally consider unacceptable and deplorable. the european union, the member states and high representative mogherini must use all the instruments at their disposal to urge the venezuelan government to reverse this trend by establishing an effective and constructive dialogue with the other political parties. i believe that a dialogue that allows all political actors to discuss the problems facing the country is the only way to find lasting and decisive solutions that will improve the current conditions in the country.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. thank you for accepting my request. i appreciate the balance in your speech, which is why i wanted to ask you: does she not also think that our role as the european union is to be a mediator, certainly a player who must intervene alongside the other south american countries in a non-invasive way, but with care and balance, to ensure that the rifts within venezuelan society are repaired?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask my colleagues if they know what this is. this is the image of a shirt that was posted on the internet by the extremist fan club of the dutch team feyenoord in which they incite further clashes, further violence after what shamefully happened in my city, rome, following the europa league match between roma-feyenoord last week. i believe that this shame can no longer be tolerated. the italian authorities have certainly had a great and heavy responsibility in the events that have taken place in the management of the crisis, but at the same time an invaluable fountain that is part of the heritage of humanity has been damaged and the damage it has suffered will be partly irreparable. this is not football, this is not sport! i have put questions together with some colleagues on this subject because the european union must act from this point of view and bring football back to what it is. let's kick violence out of football, never again!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to bring up again the issue of immigration, which we talk about very little. october 3, 2013, in addition to a day of mourning for the lampedusa massacre that left the whole world stunned, seemed to be the dawn of a new era. we said 'never again', but only 15 days ago a new tragedy occurred with another 300 deaths weighing on our consciences, while the world media are headlining 'europe is watching', 'europe is taking its time'. what are we waiting for? the middle east is a powder keg, the geopolitics of north africa are upside down, fanaticism and persecution in war zones are driving tens of thousands of men and women to the sea. the number of migrants reaching our shores has doubled and the number of deaths has quadrupled. enough talk, enough silence, it is urgent to establish a humanitarian corridor, a serious policy of sharing quotas, to re-modulate the task of triton and above all that all the member states, none excluded, share these problems.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the costa cruise line is planning to transfer 161 workers from genoa to hamburg without proper consultation of the social partners and after a series of offensive and intimidating statements by the manager towards the employees. i am considering whether this behaviour can also be seen as a violation of national or european laws, but even if it is not, i would like to stress that this is a shame: it is a shame that there is no economic motivation for the move, it is a shame that a company that has made the italian brand its strong point and that owes the italian brand hundreds of millions of euros in profits does not hesitate for a second to move to another country. in addition to the 160 transfers, job losses in the industry could amount to about 300 jobs. europe was not created for this, it was not created to make certain countries poorer and concentrate wealth in others, this is not the way out of the crisis and certainly, mr president, this is not my europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mr tarabella, all the shadow rapporteurs and in particular mr gabriel on the work they have done to produce a text that is universally acceptable and which addresses the issue of gender equality in a proper and balanced way. i am pleased to say that this parliament has shown itself to be farsighted in this area, even in the past, and that it is farsighted among the various european institutions. however, if the employment rate of women is barely rising, if women continue to have difficulty reconciling work and family life, if the rate of femicide continues to rise and if it is true that we will have to wait another 60 years to achieve equal pay and social security for men and women, then we have failed to make a difference. those who are satisfied with an illusory equality of the sexes, based on rhetorical considerations and political problems, cannot grasp the crux of mr tarabella's report, a document which takes account of past defeats, of lost battles, but which reminds public opinion and the other european institutions of the concrete actions that should be taken to ensure that women have the right to play a leading role in our societies. i would ask you to support this report vigorously and i am also aware that the political and values background of certain political groups clashes with some elements of this report. i would like to make a few brief comments which i do not think will compromise the quality of this report, which is focused on the inclusion of women in contributing to a much more dynamic european economy. i therefore ask you to leave prejudice out of the house tomorrow and above all to ensure that the will to break down stereotypes and cultural backwardness prevails.
mr president, that is a point of order, because blue cards should be given to a person who speaks only once. the honourable member has already spoken three times: in the end, he may talk more than the speaker. so, we should be very frugal about this.
it was decided at the beginning of the debate to allow a blue card to speakers. i appeal, shall we say, to the goodwill of all members of this house, because it is obvious that this will make the debate very long. let's make good use of it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank mr tarabella for this report, which is strong and balanced but also very painful, because it shows us the fracture of a europe which is still far from equality between women and men. women are paying the price of the crisis even more heavily, reduced to living welfare, with increasingly precarious jobs and the incomprehensible scandal of the 16% pay gap. there is no reason in the world why, in equal work, a woman should take less than a man. this is medieval. we therefore need strong responses, such as those called for in the report, and we need conciliation policies. discrimination affects many areas, and the report addresses all of them with courage: the right of women, for example, to decide about their own bodies, because that is where true equality comes in, and the need to ensure women's full participation in decision-making processes, because if they are so under-represented both in the boards of large companies and in politics, should we think that we are inadequate or uninterested in doing politics? or do you recognize the subtle discrimination that is taking place? i think we cannot continue to look at reality with a closed eye, that of women, because in the long run we all become blind. so let's start opening it tomorrow by voting this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to draw your attention to a new development in the labour market - (audible voice) - which is louder than any man or woman can imagine and which is likely to become a real emergency. in his excellent report, mr tarabella refers to the oecd projections on equal participation, and says what the potential growth margin of european gdp would be if this gap were to be closed. and then, not coincidentally, he talks about poverty. there are traditional forms of female poverty, but there is also a new one: the one about "poor labor". the poor used to be mainly people without work and therefore without a salary. today there are millions of people who work and earn below the poverty line. the vast majority of them are women. so we need to have active labour market policies, not just to create opportunities, but to use training so that this does not fall on women's shoulders again. that is why it is very important to approve mr tarabella's report and then work to implement policies which are consistent with its content.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the positive work carried out by mr tarabella is part of the broader process of extending the rights of individuals, and in particular of women, and points to the decisive points for the gaps which still separate us from the goal of equality to be closed as soon as possible. i am convinced that this resolution should highlight - and i say this to the commission - the important task that is being entrusted to the european parliament, but above all to the european commission when it comes to rights: the aim is to show consistency in all the policies we develop and to commit the individual states to align themselves with the best practices in terms of gender equality, overcoming this alibi constantly invoked and behind which often hides the legislative autonomy of the individual states. i would like to remind you that a society which is afraid of rights and their extension is simply afraid of its own future and the european union, i think, cannot be the continent of fear.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after all the amazing things i have heard in this house - and this is 2015 - i will not only vote in favour of the tarabella report and also of article 45, but i would like to see us voting next year for a report which recognises the superiority of women over men, because that is the truth. so let's do something else for equality - and i won't dwell on what my colleagues said, and i agree - even these blue cards, let's start to anticipate pink cards too, mr president: blue card and pink card, that's the tie.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of women and the support that the community must give them in all the challenges it faces can no longer be postponed, not only to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy but also to re-establish a principle of nature, which requires definitive and total gender equality. i congratulate mr tarabella on his important and excellent work and hope that the motion for a resolution, which i fully support, will bring progress towards substantive equality, since inequalities still persist, which are manifested in a subtle and inexorable way in the silence and discomfort of the poverty of couples, in the vulnerability of the weaker categories of women, in the painful renunciation of the most elementary prospects of life, although these are the legitimate aspirations of individuals and the obligation of every institutional charter that respects itself. it is therefore a moral obligation to promote a change of mentality, prohibiting any form of discrimination which, when not curbed, emphasizes rather than protects the difficulties and precariousness linked to disability, maternity, childhood, work and the care of elderly women.
in writing. equality between men and women should be one of the pillars of any society that calls itself modern. the tarabella report on progress on equality between women and men in the european union in 2013 addresses precisely this issue, going beyond the educational and role perception aspects to explore the purely economic aspects. these are the most pragmatic aspects of the problem, alongside the highly divisive aspects of the protection of sexual and reproductive rights. easy access to contraception and abortion guarantee the free choice of every individual in relation to his or her own body and the five star movement has therefore voted in favour of the text, confirming the will expressed by the italians in two different referendums.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after listening to the speeches of some of my colleagues, i believe that very often this parliament takes good measures and also writes good laws, but the problem is that those who really have the executive power in this european union, namely the council and the commission, which should issue good directives, very often do not listen to the guidelines that come from this parliament. so i ask myself some questions: i wonder why we are faced with claude juncker, for example, as president of the commission, who has made his country's fortune from tax dumping for more than 15 years, who could take good action tomorrow because he knows all the tax evasion scams, and instead we set up a committee which should give advice to those who know all the tax evasion scams? the bottom line is this: parliament may well be doing a good job, but unfortunately the commission and the council, which are at the mercy of the lobbies, as my colleague mr woolfe said, very often do not serve the interests of the citizens but those of big capital, and unfortunately in this case the citizens are involved, who pay with unemployment, with the destruction of the market system based on micro-entrepreneurship, with unfair competition, in which multinationals establish their tax headquarters in all the countries they see fit. we must therefore do something to stop this trend, otherwise we will have to return to protectionism!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as you have stressed, competition policy and competitiveness are fundamental values for the success and functioning of the european union as a whole. the european parliament has always been a key instrument in removing obstacles to the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital, and in promoting the completion of the single market and the protection of european consumers. unfortunately, we must acknowledge that in many sectors there are still unexplained technical and regulatory barriers which in fact prevent the proper functioning of a dynamic, efficient and innovative internal market capable of stimulating economic growth and job creation. i would like to stress in particular the important role played by the european parliament in recent years in this area and i believe that in future competition plans should be drawn up and adopted in close cooperation with parliament, through its formal involvement and i am referring to a possible extension of the codecision procedure, with a view to strengthening its democratic legitimacy. i believe that the democratic deficit is unacceptable in this area and i propose that it be overcome as soon as possible by interinstitutional agreements on competition policy. there is no competition without transparency, and that is why parliament must be kept informed of the progress of the investigations into the practices of member states' tax agreements which the commission is promoting.
in writing. i believe that for a union to be defined as such, rules are needed that put all members on the same level, especially in a sensitive area such as competition. it is now more necessary than ever to prevent distortions within the common market, both because of the historical moment in which we are facing a crisis from which only common policies can emerge, and because of the principles of the union, the economic dimension of which is defined in the treaties as 'an open market economy with free competition'. we must not forget that the confidence of citizens in the european union itself has been severely reduced also because of market constraints, both common and those of individual member states. for these reasons, and taking into account the points concerning the centrality of the digital single market, which is now a key issue also in the field of employment and above all competition, i believe that this report can be a good starting point for ensuring a thriving economy, in which the rules of competition apply to everyone and serve to improve the lives of citizens.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the oral question, which has been tabled with the agreement and support of many colleagues, and for which i thank you, is based on the article on endocrine disruptors published in the british newspaper the guardian on 2 february. the article denounces the european commission's cover-up of the proposal prepared by the environment dg in 2013 that would have led to the development of criteria for classifying a substance as an endocrine disruptor, thus launching a new strategy on the subject. with this proposal, the environment dg, pursuant to article 5 of the european union regulation concerning the placing on the market and use of biocidal products, obliged the commission to define the criteria for the identification of substances with endocrine disrupting properties by 13 december 2013. however, following external pressure, but also from other commission directorates-general, the environment dg's proposal seems to have been blocked and replaced by an impact assessment, which unfortunately will not be finalised before 2016, a measure which therefore appears instrumentally to circumvent the obligation to submit criteria. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the impact assessment of the proposed directive. the commission has included in it an option concerning the introduction of socioeconomic derogations for the placing on the market of substances containing endocrine disruptors, thus leaving the use of pesticides, for example, open. given that in its january 2013 report parliament strongly argued that the authorisation of substances containing endocrine disruptors should be limited, i ask the commission why and who authorised the derogations for the placing on the market of these substances. the guardian article argued that as many as 31 pesticides could be banned, causing a clear and significant negative economic impact on the industry. it is easy to see how the development of criteria for defining endocrine disruptors would have economic consequences not only for the pesticide industry but also for a very wide range of other products with which we interact in our daily lives and which contain endocrine disruptors: packaging, skin care products, cosmetics, building materials, electronic equipment, furniture and flooring and what are the costs of not developing the criteria for the health of european citizens? they seem to be very tall. evidence has shown that the increase in cancer, infertility, early puberty, cardiovascular disease, and fetal and genital abnormalities over the past 20 years may be associated with exposure to endocrine disrupting chemicals. the costs in terms of health expenditure and lower productivity at community level are also affected by the lack of criteria. according to a recent study, they amount to €157 billion. it goes without saying that the presentation of the criteria could therefore bring important benefits both for the health of citizens and for the european health system. how does the commission intend to take account of the potential benefits of the introduction of the criteria in its impact assessment? and does the commission intend to carry out further studies on the benefits that may result from the introduction of these criteria? i would also like to know whether the commission intends to raise public awareness of endocrine disruptors, for example by making recommendations to citizens to reduce their exposure to them. i believe that, pending the development of the criteria, guidelines at european level should be developed as soon as possible to deal with this silent pollution, which is too little considered by public opinion and citizens, who currently do not have sufficient information to protect their health. i myself, however, have addressed these needs for clarity, awareness and protection with a question of my own in october 2014, in which i expressed my deep concern about the presence of endocrine disrupting phthalates linked to health problems of alarming magnitude, including in toys and children's articles, in order to improve their flexibility, malleability and durability. they have a wide range of applications and are used in cosmetics as fixatives, in the health and pharmaceutical industries and in many other industrial applications. finally, recent research on bisphenol a has demonstrated the need for greater coordination at european level on programmes dedicated to endocrine disruptors. i find it difficult to understand how it is possible that the french national agency for food safety has presented alarming studies on this substance between 2013 and 2014 and european experts have recently concluded that exposure to bisphenol a poses no risk to humans. the commission therefore considers that the establishment of a research centre on endocrine disruptors is necessary to carry out research on these substances and to coordinate knowledge on the subject at eu level, as proposed by parliament in its 2013 resolution.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the commission. i would remind you that the reach legislation on chemicals in the european union decreed a continent-wide ban on the use of pesticides with endocrine disrupting effects and the commission was called upon to take all the necessary measures to protect public health. however, the previous dg sanco tried to circumvent, with all the tools at its disposal, the forthcoming european union ban on pesticides that act as endocrine disruptors. it is only superfluous to mention that these substances alter hormonal regulation, causing effects on behaviour, reproduction, the incidence of cancer and even the occurrence of birth defects. however, instead of providing safety criteria and a detailed list of endocrine disruptors, dg sanco has been working behind closed doors to circumvent the reach ban, with the endorsement of the european food safety authority. that is why we in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety have decided to support sweden, which has sued the european union for circumventing this ban, which has had a certain impact on the fertility of so many young people. and yet the question remains of the role played by dg sanco and also by efsa, which have not acted to protect public health, thus betraying their mandate completely. we therefore want to know what steps have been taken to hold accountable and what steps have been taken to sanction those responsible in both dg sanco and the european food safety authority.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, chemical compounds that affect the endocrine system are undermining the future of entire animal populations and of man himself, causing, among other things, a reduction in fertility and an increase in neonatal diseases. according to a recent study by 18 of the world's leading scientists, the economic damage caused by endocrine disruptors is estimated at €157 billion a year, equivalent to 1.23% of the eu's gdp. the european environment agency, in its latest report, highlighted that the current level of exposure to endocrine disruptors is one of the quality indicators with a negative trend. from the e-mail exchanges between the highest-level officials of the european commission, published in the guardian newspaper at the beginning of february, it is clear that the commission has delayed the application of the criteria identified by the environment dg for the issuing of the appropriate delegated acts. their adoption would have led to the elimination of 20% of the active ingredients used and would have involved the production of triazoles and dithiocarbamates, which represent 80% of the fungicide market worth eur 8-9 billion a year. in total, it is estimated that 31 hazardous pesticides used in agriculture would have been banned had the criteria not been blocked for economic reasons. i therefore believe that, in addition to the delay in the adoption of the delegated acts assigned to it, the commission must also explain whether and how it has taken account of the economic damage that the delay in tackling the problem would have caused to the community.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we thank you for being here late at night to discuss matters that are really close to our hearts. i come from a country which, in relation to the specific problem, has been less affected by this question, in the sense that italy certainly feels the problem of sanctions on the production side but, unlike the eastern countries which, legitimately intervened this evening, feels it less from the point of view of transport, but we cannot escape it for that reason. i fully share the spirit of this reconstruction which has been proposed by the chairman of my committee, mr cramer, and i share the concern expressed by other colleagues that the european union cannot somehow escape the need to respond also in the field of transport where, as you rightly pointed out, there are no specific possibilities for intervention to support the tragedy endured by the entrepreneurs in this sector. we shall be speaking again in this house tomorrow, for example, to discuss the possibility of economic intervention to support situations of major industrial crises throughout europe, for example in the steel industry, whereas you have already mentioned the intervention in the agricultural sector. we cannot leave the transport sector out of this. someone said: "we find the answers with imagination": it is from these small, sometimes imaginative answers that we can re-create that spirit of hope which is the only chance we have to avoid sometimes strange arguments, such as those we heard just now, about the need to find out who is to blame: whoever set the sanctions first or whoever set the embargoes later. no, that's not our discussion. our discussion must be directed towards finding answers for those who have a problem in europe today, and this transport problem is a clear, concrete problem on which we cannot fail to act.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the decision of the russian federation to introduce bans on the import of certain agricultural and food products from the european union is unfortunately causing damage to many sectors. not only are farmers forced to let thousands of unsold goods rot, but the road haulage companies that were responsible for getting the goods to their destination have had large transport contracts to and from that state cancelled. but while the european union has already provided economic aid for the agri-food sector, nothing has been done for road hauliers who have been facing serious problems for years as a result of the global crisis that has hit europe. i therefore believe that it is appropriate to take concrete action to help such an important sector for our economy, including appropriate measures to make road transport in the european union more competitive.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks the updated statistics on early childhood education and care services have been published, starting from the end of maternity leave and paid parental leave, and it has emerged that only seven states in the european union guarantee good quality. quality services are affected in many countries by the lack of adequate resources and the absence of pedagogical guidance. this creates or worsens social inequalities and prevents the elimination of the gender gap, because women are the ones who mostly take care of children in the absence of services, being penalized in professional life. we therefore call for the european union to take responsibility for ensuring that all its citizens have access to quality services that are accessible to all, together with other measures that help to reduce all forms of discrimination, such as upward harmonisation of european parental leave legislation and the promotion of flexible working arrangements, such as smart working, which allow not only women but all workers to better reconcile family needs with an active working life.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the committee on regional development i would like to express my deep concern about the number of regional operational programmes, 300 in number, or 47% of all programmes, which require revision of the multiannual financial framework. this is why we must not lose the resources allocated in 2014. the proposal for a revision of the multiannual financial framework is therefore welcome, and it will be brought to the attention of this house in the coming partsession. in future, however, in order to avoid the same problems in the next programming period, i would like to see greater cooperation and coordination between the european commission, the member states and regional and local authorities, in the light of the competitive management which is, or rather should be, the guiding principle of cohesion policy. i cannot help but note, however - and this is a bitter note, mine - that, at least in my own country, delays are to be found, as they have been for decades, especially in the southern regions. i therefore ask for more attention and above all for an explanation of why it is always the same regions, except for some new entries, that have these problems.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is surprising that, in view of the milan expo, derogations have been granted for the import of food products from third countries, while the exhibition halls will remain closed to some of the best products of our territory, such as the sardinian maize and all products derived from it. the value of the extraordinary fruits of the earth that come from our continent should be in everyone's interest. i have already urged the commission on this point on several occasions to prevent this disaster from happening in two months' time, which will mainly affect the farmers and livestock farmers of sardinia. but we must thank above all the local sardinian politicians and their respective parties who, from 1978 to today, that is to say in thirty years, instead of solving the problem, have only been able to cry out for help and strike one blow, the only one i know of: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary reforms. we also thank them if today entire italian production sectors risk losing a great opportunity to promote the image of our products in the best possible way. expo 2015 was already born under a bad star: i hope that it will not become a continuing exercise in theft and fraud.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this should have been an opportunity to send a strong and decisive signal to the real economy, but it will prove to be another failure. the long-term investment funds will favour speculators, multinationals and large infrastructure companies, and will once again forget about savers and smes, the real ones, those who have no possibility of obtaining financing on the capital markets. smes are the beating heart and identity of europe, the same europe that is slowly abandoning them. all the proposals put forward by the eu in recent years do not relaunch traditional credit, do not put the credit system ahead of its social role, but, on the contrary, use the capital market, where speculation reigns supreme and the risks for savers are very high. the continuing neglect of the fabric of production which has dragged european countries along for years is part of a clear path decided by the bureaucrats in brussels. i am very sorry to say that we are moving towards a specifically american model of globalisation, in which the real economy is in danger of collapsing and small businesses are left to their own devices.
in writing. the european economy suffers from a worrying lack of investment, both public and private. to reverse this negative trend, the european institutions are making the revival of investment their workhorse. the creation of the european long-term investment funds is an indicative element that reinforces the design of a convinced commitment to stimulate the recovery of the real economy at european level. it is a significant coincidence that the trilogue on eltifs ended positively, also thanks to the determination of the italian presidency, on the same day as the launch of the juncker plan. this is a new opportunity for smes, research and infrastructure to find funding, an opportunity which complements the work already undertaken by banks in these areas. this is about getting pension funds, insurance companies, and retail investors who want to invest for the medium to long term, in the face of favorable returns. i think it is important that parliament has stressed that these funds cannot invest in speculative activities and that all individual investors must be adequately informed and protected. this new instrument not only strengthens the commitment of the efsi but also represents an interesting step towards the single capital market.
in writing. i believe that long-term financing can be an important tool to help the european economy grow and to boost competitiveness and employment. so welcome the european long-term funds, which i hope will succeed in financing the real economy of the eu by increasing the capital available for long-term projects. i think it is very important that these funds should be placed in the context of the europe 2020 strategy. investments in long-term activities should also play a key role in promoting smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. furthermore, progress in achieving the objectives of this strategy could make more capital available. however, the pooling of capital through european long-term funds, especially in the case of cross-border projects, could be hampered by the diversity of tax regimes between member states and the fragmentation of the european market for long-term investment. in this sense, the commission must act to remove the obstacles to the cross-border raising of long-term capital by encouraging the creation of an integrated internal market for the raising of capital to be channelled towards long-term investment.
in writing. infrastructure, transport and sustainable energy are the main areas we have decided to focus on during our work on eltifs: the long-term european investment funds. with this instrument, we have built a framework favourable to investment in europe. it is a balanced text that rewards the virtuous investors of small and medium-sized unlisted companies who decide to invest in real estate and infrastructure projects. in addition, the investors concerned are mainly institutional investors, represented by pension funds, insurance companies and private investors who have the possibility of committing their savings for a longer period. indeed, these types of activities are able to guarantee stable returns. we have decided to give priority to those projects which have the greatest impact on the local community and which guarantee the greatest impact on job creation. for these reasons, it is a key instrument for boosting growth and jobs in europe. the european central bank's expansionary measures and the new investment legislation have helped us to emerge from the economic and financial crisis.
in writing. long-term investment funds, beyond appearances, are a tool to pave the way for financial speculation and the wild privatization of common goods, rather than a clever tool to revive a model of finance at the service of the real economy and society. the way in which eltifs are structured does not provide investors with the right incentives to channel capital towards productive long-term investments in support of crisis-hit smes. the funds designed by the commission are by definition hedge funds, i.e. hedge funds, which are obliged to invest 70% of their capital in long-term investments capable of generating constant profits. these are investments in financial instruments of companies or other funds and in real assets, including non-productive assets such as infrastructure, real estate, ships and aircraft. it is clear that this means that we are once again endorsing an inefficient and consumer-oriented use of financial resources which could instead be channelled towards the financing of innovative projects and productive enterprises. unfortunately, with this further prestige play, the profit-oriented investments in public services, such as water and waste management infrastructure, or roads, schools and hospitals, are being let through the window, but without making too much noise.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the egf, the european globalisation adjustment fund, to support 615 polish workers who lost their jobs in the manufacturing of chemicals. the egf, which is a tangible and indispensable instrument for supporting businesses and workers affected by the crisis, needs to be simplified in the bureaucratic process of its activation in order to have a positive impact on the lives of citizens.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european adjustment fund for zachem because i think that we need to help our companies on european soil to cope with the challenges of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund which refers to the application submitted by poland on 9 october 2013 for a financial contribution from the egf following the insolvencies of zachem and two suppliers in poland. the request from poland concerns 615 redundancies in 3 companies operating in the chemical sector. in order to establish the link between the redundancies and the significant changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation, poland argues that the eu has suffered a significant reduction in its market share in the chemical industry, losing its world leadership in the sale of chemicals. the eu's share of the world chemicals market has indeed declined dramatically from 35.2% in 1992 to 17.8% in 2012. the link between redundancies and the structural changes in world trade due to globalisation is therefore clear. that is why i voted for this measure.
in writing. ‒ the cessation of production and the reorganisation of zaklady chemiczne zachem (concerning zaklady chemiczne zachem and two suppliers, all of whom are active in the chemical sector) resulted in 615 redundancies. the industry is in fact heavily affected by chinese competition, which has led to a sharp decrease in the union market share over the last 20 years. zachem was the largest employer in the region, which already had the highest unemployment rate in the country. the egf is intended to help the 50 most disadvantaged workers and includes recruitment incentives and targeted assistance.
in writing. ‒ i thought i would vote in favour of this measure because the european fund established provides support for workers who are being affected by the structural changes in world trade. the fund may not exceed the annual ceiling of eur 150 million (2011 prices). the necessary amounts shall be entered in the general budget of the union as a provision. the procedures which will be used to obtain the transfer of the funds seem to me to be good and efficient. the dialogue between the commission and the authority should ensure the success of the procedural agreement, see the case of zachem poland, which is going through a dark period due to the shift of production of chemicals to asia, with a higher production cost impact due to high labour costs. i consider the intervention of the european fund to be a positive and decisive procedure aimed at supporting and defending individual european workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the present application, which concerns the mobilisation of the egf in favour of poland, and which aims to compensate 615 redundant workers, who worked in the zaklady chemiczne zachem company, specialised in the manufacture of chemicals and chemical products. these surpluses are the result of the major changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation. in particular, the chinese market share in this sector increased significantly due to lower labour costs. i therefore regard the intervention of the european fund as a positive and decisive procedure aimed at defending european workers who are affected by the structural changes in world trade.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the egf in response to the request for financial assistance from poland following the insolvency of zachem and its two other suppliers in the manufacture of chemicals. the company faced strong competition from asian producers, which resulted in a sharp decrease in its market share. in particular, the production of ech (epichlorohydrin) has become unsuitable, both because of the increase in production costs in europe and the unexpected increase in the supply of ech from asia. zachem's subsequent decision to discontinue production operations and to undertake internal reorganisation also had an immediate impact on its suppliers and widened its effects. in addition, the region affected by the redundancies had an unemployment rate of around 17% in the reference period, the highest in poland, mainly as a direct or indirect consequence of the difficulties experienced by zachem. the egf will co-finance personalised services to help - hopefully quickly and in a timely manner - the jobless to return to work.
in writing. ‒ poland requested the mobilisation of the egf following the 615 redundancies at a chemical plant and two of its suppliers. the commission recalled that the union industry had a significant market share in the union during the period considered. the total contribution requested is eur 115.205. it should be noted that the measures supported by the egf are intended for 50 workers in a disadvantaged situation. in essence, recruitment and investment incentives are co-financed. furthermore, it should be noted that the factory in question was the largest employer in the region and that during the reference period, workers dismissed, directly or indirectly by zachem, represented 60% of all newly registered unemployed in the district employment office in bydgoszcz. given the importance of improving the employability of all workers through appropriate training and the recognition of skills and competences acquired during a worker's professional career, i consider that poland is entitled to a financial contribution under that regulation.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. i supported the proposal to mobilise the egf for poland because it proposes the reintegration into the labour market of 615 redundant workers at zachem poland, a company which has suffered a significant reduction in its market share in the chemical industry as a result of the major changes in world trade due to globalisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide additional support to polish workers at zachem who have suffered the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the granting of the fund of € 115.205 (50% of the total) for the 615 redundancies in the manufacture of chemicals and chemical products in poland
in writing. by unlocking the european globalisation adjustment fund, the european union is giving a concrete signal of support to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade, thus facilitating their reintegration into the labour market. i therefore welcome the approval of mr olbrycht's report on the case of the reorganisation of zaklady chemiczne zachem. in this as in many other cases, europe is only intervening to cover the decline in competitiveness and to provide firms and workers with new tools for the reconversion of skills and vocational skills. these are decisive instruments: the hope is that the efforts to re-energize production that the eu has undertaken with the new juncker plan will gradually make eu businesses finally stronger in the global market, thus reversing the decline that part of our industrial sector has suffered in recent years.
in writing. i voted in favour of the olbrycht report. it provides for the reintegration into the labour market of 615 workers made redundant by zachem poland. through the egf we are trying to ensure a system of reintegration into the labour market for employees who have been affected by the economic crisis, highlighting once again the key role that europe has and must continue to play in this period of crisis. i would also like to stress that today's mobilization concerns polish workers who are unfortunately in difficulty and that we will be able to help by mobilizing these resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request submitted by poland for a financial contribution from the egf of eur 115 205 following 615 redundancies due to the cessation of production at zaklady chemiczne zachem, an enterprise active in the 'manufacture of chemicals and chemical products'. zachem's redundancies were unexpected because of the sudden increase in the market supply of its main product, tdi. the egf should be mobilised in order to provide a financial contribution to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in trade.
in writing. ‒ the profound transformation of the international trading system, attributable to the advance of globalisation, and the economic and financial crisis, has led poland to a situation of economic poverty and social crisis. the european union must come to the aid of the country and its people if the burden of the economic depression is to be reduced. on this basis, i felt it was my duty to give my consent to the olbrycht report, which calls for the mobilisation of the egf to help 615 redundant workers at zachem poland.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for poland to support the reintegration into the labour market of zachem workers who have been made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade. according to the data cited by the polish authorities, the european union has seen its market share in the chemical sector decrease drastically and has therefore lost its lead in the sales of chemicals worldwide. the trend of recent years has shown that the manufacture of chemicals has shifted to asia, in particular to china, which has seen an exceptional increase in chemical production from 8,7% in 2002 to 30,5% in 2012, as a result of higher sales in emerging markets. these european grants, in the form of recruitment incentives and targeted measures, will be aimed at the 50 redundant workers and will be a valuable aid to their reintegration into employment.
in writing. ‒ the profound transformation of the international trading system, attributable to the advance of globalisation and the economic and financial crisis, has led poland towards total economic asphyxiation. the european union must come to the aid of the country and its people if the burden of the economic depression is to be made bearable. that is why i felt it necessary to express my agreement with the olbrycht report, which calls for the mobilisation of the egf to help 615 redundant workers at zaklady chemiczne zachem.
in writing. ‒ whereas the european union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market; that union financial support to redundant workers should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible, in accordance with the joint statement of the european parliament, the council and the commission; i have voted in favour of the proposal, since i am convinced that the application for assistance meets the conditions for eligibility laid down in the egf regulation.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to provide support for workers in enterprises that are suffering from adverse economic conditions and major structural changes in world trade. it is right to mobilise the fund for poland, as decided by the commission, to help reintegrate into the labour market those workers made redundant at zachem poland (a chemical manufacturing company). the number of redundant workers is 615, and the minimum threshold for its application is 500 workers. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed will be targeted at the 50 most disadvantaged redundant workers and will include the following measures: recruitment incentives and targeted interventions. i hope that the sums allocated to workers will help them to re-enter the labour market in the best possible way and that all the principles of equal treatment will be respected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, following the request submitted by poland, because i think it is right that the fund in question can help countries which, despite working hard to grow and develop, need help to provide for companies which are not always able to support the global market.
in writing. i voted in favour of protecting chemical workers who have been made redundant by competition from third countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of mobilising a financial contribution of over eur 100 000 through the egf for poland, following the employment of 615 redundant workers due to the cessation of production and the reorganisation of two chemical and substance manufacturing enterprises in the province of coiova-pomerania. i have always supported the use of the egf in all cases where workers lose their jobs as a result of unfair international competition and the economic crisis. the industry in particular suffered a sharp decrease in market share across the eu, in favour of china which increased from 8,7% in 2002 to 30,5% in 2012. although the egf is not an appropriate instrument to deal in the long term with the problem of downward competition, social dumping and unemployment, i wanted to support this additional emergency measure which will benefit workers.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the mobilisation of the egf, the european globalisation adjustment fund, for 657 german workers in the photovoltaic panel processing sector who were unemployed. i believe that we have reached this point because of the short-sighted european climate policy, which has pushed the sector to the extreme, without taking into account the long-term effects and the foreseeable collapse in the prices of this technology.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for aleo solar because i think that we need to help our companies on european soil to cope with the challenges of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which refers to the application submitted by germany concerning 657 workers made redundant by aleo solar, a company which manufactured computers and electronic and optical products. between 2005 and 2011, china's market share in this sector increased from 11% to 45%, while germany's market share decreased from 64% to 21%. the link between redundancies and the major changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation is therefore clear.
in writing. ‒ this mobilisation of the egf is in support of 476 redundant workers from the german company aleo solar ag, which was active in the manufacture of computers and electronic and optical products. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers were not able to compete with the union producers in the union market. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed aims at the vocational reintegration of workers; the redundancies in question have a particularly negative impact on the regional economy of prenzlau/brandenburg, an area already characterised by a per capita income well below the national average and with the highest unemployment rates in germany.
in writing. ‒ i thought i would vote in favour of this measure because the european fund established provides support for workers who are being affected by the structural changes in world trade. the fund may not exceed the annual ceiling of eur 150 million (2011 prices). the necessary amounts shall be entered in the general budget of the union as a provision. the procedures which will be used to obtain the transfer of the funds seem to me to be good and efficient. the dialogue between the commission and the authority should ensure the success of the procedural agreement, see the case of aleo solar, a solar company which has closed down its business following losses incurred in recent years due to the strong entry of asian facilities into the world market and the high and significant labour costs. i consider the intervention of the european fund to be a positive and decisive procedure aimed at supporting and defending individual european workers placed in a redundancy fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for an egf contribution to germany. in fact, if we can obtain the same products at lower prices thanks to globalisation, we must also specialise in sectors that are less affected by asian competition. in the adjustment phase, it is right to redistribute some of these savings to those who are victims of this mechanism. i therefore believe that the intervention of the european globalisation adjustment fund is the right procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the egf in respect of the application submitted by germany for the re-employment of workers made redundant by aleo solar, a company specialising in the manufacture of optical products. changes in the structure of world trade and the decline in demand in europe have caused the german market share for this product to be drastically reduced in recent years and even the restructuring efforts have not been enough to save the company from huge losses. the resulting decision of aleo solar to close its german plant therefore raises the problem of re-employing the 476 redundant workers. the granting of egf co-financing will help to implement a number of personal services which, together with the actions undertaken by the german authorities, are expected to lead to the rapid reintegration of redundant workers into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the german authorities submitted the application for a financial contribution from the egf following 657 redundancies, 390 of which were from aleo solar ag, a company active in the production of computer, electronic and optical products, and 267 from its two subsidiaries. i welcomed the fact that, in order to provide workers with rapid assistance, the german authorities decided to start the implementation of personalised services to the workers concerned on 11 april 2014, well before the decision on granting the egf support. the redundancies at aleo solar ag are linked to major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation. the commission welcomes the coordinated package of personalised services which co-finances measures for the reintegration of 476 redundant workers.
in writing. ‒ the german company aleo solar is one of the many european solar companies that have been affected by the major changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation. i voted in favour of the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund because it will enable the 657 workers laid off at aleo solar to be reintegrated into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide additional support for the workers of a german company active in the solar energy sector. aleo solar went into crisis because of chinese manufacturing that drove down the price of solar modules. the commission also found that the chinese solar modules were sold to the union market at prices below the union industry's prices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting eur 1 094 760 for 657 redundancies in the photovoltaic panel manufacturing sector under the egf, due to the decline in eu market shares. china's share went from 11% to 45%, while germany's fell from 64% to 21%. this is one of the effects of the eu's climate policy-fuelled photovoltaic bubble bursting.
in writing. by unlocking the european globalisation adjustment fund, the european union is giving a concrete signal of support to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade, thus facilitating their reintegration into the labour market. i therefore welcome the approval of the report on the aleo solar business reorganisation case. in this as in many other cases, europe is only intervening to cover the decline in competitiveness and to provide firms and workers with new tools for the reconversion of skills and vocational skills. these are decisive instruments: the hope is that the efforts to re-energize production that the eu has undertaken with the new juncker plan will gradually make eu businesses finally stronger in the global market, thus reversing the decline that part of our industrial sector has suffered in recent years.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr hoffmann's report because i regard the decision to mobilise the egf in germany as a concrete aid measure which could help 657 redundant workers declared by the aleo solar plant to return to the labour market. in the context of the economic crisis we are currently experiencing, we have had occasion to stress the importance and effectiveness of an instrument such as the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, presented by germany, for a financial contribution of eur 1 094 760, following 657 redundancies, 390 of which at aleo solar ag of its two subsidiaries in germany a company active in the manufacture of computers and electronic and optical products. i believe it is of the utmost importance to protect redundant workers and to enable them to benefit from the financial measures of the egf as an incentive for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ due to changes in the structure of world trade, due to the advance of globalisation, between 2005 and 2011, germany's share of revenues fell from 64% to 21%. my agreement with the report signed by mr hoffmann reflects my conviction that the egf must be mobilised promptly to deal with the loss of 657 workers at aleo solar in the brandenburg region, which has one of the highest unemployment rates in germany.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for germany to support the reintegration into the labour market of aleo solar workers who have been made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers had not provided any evidence that the measures were in place. this is due to the growing presence of chinese industry on the world market: the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers were not able to provide the necessary information to the commission to enable it to assess the likelihood of continuation of dumping. this, together with the decline in world demand, has led to a collapse in prices. this package of european aid will help 476 redundant workers to re-enter the labour market through vocational training, counselling and guidance.
in writing. ‒ the application concerns the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, for a total amount of eur 1 094 760, in favour of germany. my vote in favour of the report signed by mr hoffmann is based on the conviction that the 657 redundant workers at aleo solar, a company manufacturing computers and electronic and optical products, have the right to adequate support from the european union.
in writing. ‒ whereas the european union has put in place appropriate legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market; that union financial support to redundant workers should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible, in accordance with the joint statement of the european parliament, the council and the commission; having regard to the adoption of the new egf regulation, which reflects the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the reintroduction of the mobilisation criterion following the crisis, i have voted in favour of the proposal, since the application for assistance meets the eligibility conditions laid down in the egf regulation.
in writing. ‒ in this phase of the global economic and financial crisis, it is right to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to help workers made redundant by firms following redundancies and closures. the claim made by aleo solar (a german company operating in the solar energy sector which was put into liquidation) is also due to the strong competition from chinese production. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers had a significant market share in the union market. with my vote in favour, i thought it was worthwhile to help the redundant workers in this company who will benefit from the measures co-financed by the egf for reintegration into the labour market through a package of personalised services, such as vocational training measures, vocational counselling and guidance, entrepreneurship advice, interregional advice, job search accompanied by a professional in the job search, after-care mentoring and advice for workers.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is one of the many ways in which the european union is helping european citizens in a practical way. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which can help german workers.
in writing. i abstained because, while i sympathize with those who have lost their jobs, i believe that the situation of these people is largely dependent not on the market but on the wrong eu energy policies.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund to support 476 german employees of aleo solar, a company active in the solar module market. these excesses, which occurred between march and july last year, are a consequence of the structural changes in world trade due to globalisation, in particular competition from countries such as china, which produces at lower production costs than germany, resulting in an overload in the solar module market which is not absorbed by the market. these redundancies have had a particularly negative impact on the economy of the brandenburg region, which has one of the highest unemployment rates in germany. the eur 1 094 760 from the globalisation adjustment fund will help to cover part of the costs of assistance and support in job search, vocational training, support for business creation and other programmes aimed at re-entering the labour market for the 476 workers made redundant.
in writing. as with the other applications for the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the egf for germany, which applied for a financial contribution of eur 1 million following 657 redundancies at aleo solar, a company active in the solar panel sector. the sector has been hit hard across europe by fierce chinese competition, recording huge losses in recent years, leaving many workers at home. as this is a central sector for the implementation of the european strategy for sustainable growth, i believe, however, that the problem of protecting and reviving the solar panel sector must be tackled above all in the context of more strategic and coordinated programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the egf to the value of eur 981 956 for 708 redundant employees in the steel sector in belgium. the european globalisation adjustment fund is an indispensable instrument to remedy the malfunctioning of the internal market, but i would also stress here that its activation process must be speeded up in order to provide more effective support for our citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for hainaut steel because i think that we need to help our companies on european soil to cope with the challenges of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the proposal for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf, set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade) which refers to the application submitted by belgium on 27 september 2013 for a financial contribution from the egf following redundancies linked to the closure of duferco belgim sa and staff reductions at nlmk la louvière sa, companies operating in the metallurgical sector. the request from belgium concerns a total of 708 exemptions. the aim is to establish the link between redundancies and the major changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation. the belgian authorities have pointed out that the steel industry has suffered serious economic disruption, due in particular to the decline in the eu market share. considering that between 2006 and 2011 crude steel production in the eu decreased by 14.1%, while worldwide it increased by 21.6%, and therefore the link between redundancies and structural changes in world trade due to globalisation is demonstrated, i voted in favour of this measure.
in writing. ‒ the european steel industry is suffering greatly from the crisis and globalisation and, as the frequent requests to mobilise european funds demonstrate, it needs coordinated action at european level. in la louvière, in the hainaut region where employment is heavily dependent on traditional heavy industry and the public sector duferco, a belgian heavy industry company, closed its doors and nlmk had to reduce its staff, both because of the reduction in its european market share in steel production, resulting in a total of 708 redundancies. the mobilisation of the egf is therefore intended to help redundant workers to retrain for other jobs in different sectors.
in writing. ‒ i thought i would vote in favour of this measure because the european fund established provides support for workers who are being affected by the structural changes in world trade. the fund may not exceed the annual ceiling of eur 150 million (2011 prices). the necessary amounts shall be entered in the general budget of the union as a provision. the procedures which will be used to obtain the transfer of the funds seem to me to be good and efficient. the dialogue between the commission and the authority should ensure the success of the procedural agreement, see the case of hainaut steel, which has experienced a significant decline in sales in recent years due to the strong entry of steel from asia into the world market and the high and significant cost of labour and the decline in demand in the automotive and construction sectors. i consider the intervention of the european fund to be a positive and decisive procedure aimed at supporting and defending individual european workers placed in a redundancy fund.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund provides support for workers who are being affected by structural changes in world trade. i believe that the 708 redundancies at duferco and nlmk are linked to the changes in world trade due to globalisation, since the steel industry has suffered serious economic disruption. i voted in favour of the present application for the mobilisation of the egf for belgium because the data in the resolution underlined that between 2006 and 2011 crude steel production in the eu decreased while worldwide production increased; the sharp decline in the eu market share was therefore particularly significant for both companies, driven not by competitive factors within the company but by broader eu-wide issues. that is why i think the fund's intervention is right.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the egf for belgium in respect of redundancies linked to the closure of duferco belgium sa and the reduction of staff by nlmk la louvière sa, both based in la louvière and both active in the metallurgical sector. the european steel market share has been considerably reduced by changes in international trade routes and by a contraction in domestic demand, which has led to the loss of jobs for many steel workers. the redundancies caused by the closure of the first and the downsizing of the second of the above-mentioned enterprises are worsening the socioeconomic situation in an area characterised by already high levels of unemployment. the mobilisation of the egf for this purpose will make it possible to co-finance key measures such as individual assistance in finding a new job, training and retraining courses and the promotion of entrepreneurship. the hope is that, thanks also to the support of the egf, redundant workers will be able to find new employment quickly, a precondition for the recovery of the area's economy.
in writing. ‒ belgium applied to mobilise the egf following the 708 redundancies linked to the closure of duferco and the reductions in staff at nlmk, both in the base metal production, both based in la louvière in the hainaut region. the decrease in the union market share of the steel industry was mainly due to the decrease in the production volume of the union industry. the nature of the redundancies will have a negative impact on the hainaut region, a former coal and steel-producing area where employment is heavily dependent on traditional heavy industry and public sector investment. the commission notes that the 2012 meip study was based on a comparison of the average price of the assets and liabilities of the three companies. the current figure is 39% for people aged 18 to 25 and there is a low level of qualification of job seekers, 51% have no upper secondary education. since the conditions of the egf regulation are met, i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the steel industry has suffered from severe economic disruption and a sharp decline in eu market share in recent years. the effects of these changes in the pattern of trade on the union market were also compounded by other factors such as the decreasing demand for steel in the eu automotive and construction sector and a related increase in production costs. these factors had a negative impact on the competitiveness of the steel industry in the european union, causing the loss of many jobs. i supported the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for belgium because it will support the reintegration into employment of 708 workers who lost their jobs in the steel industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide additional support for the workers of the belgian steelworks hainaunt steel. the crisis in the steel industry in europe is still very serious. the challenge facing the steel industry is very ambitious, since it must combine the protection of workers from the risks associated with pollution on the one hand and european firms from competition which is leaving them behind on the world scene and the general fall in demand for steel due to the general reduction in investment on the other. europe must therefore set out a roadmap to put the steel industry back at the centre of industrial policies and transform it into a sustainable and profitable sector.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the granting of the fund of € 981 956 for 708 redundancies in the steel sector in wallonia.
in writing. by unlocking the european globalisation adjustment fund, the european union is giving a concrete signal of support to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade, thus facilitating their reintegration into the labour market. i therefore welcome the approval of the report on the case of the corporate reorganisation of hainaut steel. in this as in many other cases, europe is only intervening to cover the decline in competitiveness and to provide firms and workers with new tools for the reconversion of skills and vocational skills. these are decisive instruments: the hope is that the efforts to re-energize production that the eu has undertaken with the new juncker plan will gradually make eu businesses finally stronger in the global market, thus reversing the decline that part of our industrial sector has suffered in recent years.
in writing. i am in favour of the report by mr andrej plenković, which provides for support for certain belgian companies affected by the economic crisis. the report provides for the allocation of the resources needed to reintegrate 708 redundant workers in steel undertakings into the labour market. europe is once again demonstrating its solidarity mission and its practical ability to help the people, the workers, who are suffering the most from the effects of a devastating economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, concerning the request by belgium for a financial contribution of eur 981 956 following 708 redundancies due to the closure of duferco and the reduction of staff at nlmk, a company active in the metallurgical sector. the steel industry has suffered from significant economic imbalances, in particular a sharp decline in the eu market share, and the structure of world trade has been made more complex by factors such as the decreasing demand for steel in the automotive and construction sectors. it is therefore necessary to protect workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the economic crisis and to ensure that the fund supports their stable reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the steel industry has suffered serious economic losses as a result of market changes due to the unstoppable advance of globalisation. i have voted in favour of the plenković report because i believe that the egf should be mobilised to help 708 redundant workers at hainaut steel, a belgian steel company, to re-enter the labour market. the european union must act promptly to help citizens in need, in accordance with the principle of solidarity between states.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for belgium to support the reintegration into the labour market of hainaut steel workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade. according to the belgian authorities, the steel industry has suffered from severe economic disturbances, in particular a sharp decline in the eu market share. the effects of these changes in the pattern of trade were compounded by other factors such as the decreasing demand for steel in the eu automotive and construction sectors as a result of the economic crisis and a related increase in production costs (raw materials, energy, environmental constraints, etc.). these factors have had a negative impact on the competitiveness of the european steel industry, causing the loss of a large number of steel jobs in recent years following the closure and restructuring of plants by various steel producers in europe. the package of european aid approved today will help 701 redundant workers to return to work by providing personalised assistance in finding a job, training and retraining, and promoting entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ the application under examination concerns the mobilisation of the egf in the amount of eur 981 956 for belgium. the european union has a responsibility to help workers who lose their jobs as a result of major changes in world trade patterns. that is why i felt it necessary to express my agreement with the report signed by mr plenković, which supports the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the benefit of 708 redundant workers in two metalworking companies, duferco and nlmk. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of measures to improve the professional skills of these workers and to help them to find new employment opportunities.
in writing. ‒ whereas the union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market; that union financial support to redundant workers should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible; whereas the adoption of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013 (4) reflects the agreement reached between parliament and the council on the reintroduction of the mobilisation criterion following the crisis, the increase of the union's financial contribution to 60% of the estimated total costs of the proposed measures, the increase of the efficiency of the processing of applications for egf assistance within the commission and by parliament and the council, by reducing the evaluation and approval times, the inclusion of the self-employed and young people in the scope of the actions and eligible beneficiaries, and the financing of incentives for the creation of own enterprises; i have voted in favour of the proposal, since i am convinced that the application for assistance meets the conditions for eligibility laid down in the egf regulation.
in writing. ‒ the egf (european globalisation adjustment fund) is being mobilised in belgium for the reintegration of redundant workers in hainaut steel, a steelmaking company, as required by the commission's proposal for a decision. the belgian authorities have stated that the steel sector has suffered from severe economic disturbances in recent years and the eu has lost a significant market share. crude steel production declined in the eu, with an annual change of -3% and a loss of market. the crisis in the automobile and construction sectors, which are major users of steel, has contributed to the crisis in the european steel industry and its consequences. i hope that the personalised services for the 701 redundant workers financed by the fund will help them to re-skill. in this case, this involves personalised assistance in job search, case management and general information services; training and retraining; promotion of entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has once again shown its determination and readiness to stand by its fellow citizens by approving the report on the european globalisation adjustment fund to help belgian workers.
in writing. i voted in favour to protect citizens who have lost their jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of 701 workers made redundant as a result of globalisation at duferco nlmk, a steelmaking company. the rapid decline in the eu market share in the steel production market over the period 2007-2013 forced duferco to close down and nlkm to reduce its activity. as a result, 708 people lost their jobs in the province of hainaut, once a major mining and steel basin, which now has an unemployment rate of 17.7%. the eur 981 956 grant from the globalisation adjustment fund, in addition to the funds already provided by the walloon region, will help to cover part of the costs of assistance and support in job search, vocational training, support for business creation and other programmes aimed at re-entering the labour market for 701 redundant workers.
in writing. i voted in favour of the activation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), requested by belgium to support the reintegration of some 700 workers made redundant by hainaut steel, a steel company. this sector has suffered a significant decline in market share across europe as a result of changes in the structure of trade due to international competition and the economic and financial crisis. i therefore felt it important to support this decision which, while not in itself a real solution, is still a way of alleviating a serious emergency situation with a contribution of some eur 980 000 for workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the egf to provide eur 1 591 486 to support the 1 285 redundant workers in the metalworking sector in belgium affected by the crisis. europe should do more to support the internal market and protect it from competition from third countries, but the globalisation adjustment fund, although still too slow to be activated, remains a key instrument for supporting workers and businesses in difficulty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for arcelormittal because i think that we need to help our companies on european soil to cope with the challenges of the globalisation.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which refers to the application by belgium for a financial contribution from the egf following the redundancy of 1 285 workers at arcelor mittal liège, a metalworking company. the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume and market share increased by more than 10% during the period considered. in contrast, asia increased its share from 56% to 67%. the link between redundancies and the structural changes in world trade due to globalisation is thus apparent. that is why i voted for this measure.
in writing. ‒ this mobilisation of the egf is the second one authorised on the same days for former steel workers central to the economy of the liège region , which is a further sign of the crisis in the sector and the need for joint action at union level (already initiated with the implementation of the commission communication of 11 june 2013 entitled 'action plan for a competitive and sustainable european steel industry'). arcelormittal liège s.a. has placed 1 285 people in redundancy and the fund is to finance measures to benefit 910 of these.
in writing. ‒ the prolonged economic crisis has had a negative impact on a number of sectors of activity in almost all eu countries. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. among the eu countries, belgium has been the most affected by the drop in production, with arcelor mittal in liège managing a surplus of some 1 200 workers. i voted in favour of the request from belgium to the european commission and also welcomed by the council's budget committee to mobilise eur 1 591 486. this financial contribution will enable the company to cope with the effects of the crisis and, above all, to support the many workers now unemployed. the continuing use by businesses of the european globalisation adjustment fund is a clear and tangible sign of the crisis, for which solutions must be found quickly at all decision-making levels.
in writing. ‒ i thought i would vote in favour of this measure because the european fund established provides support for workers who are being affected by the structural changes in world trade. the fund may not exceed the annual ceiling of eur 150 million (2011 prices). the necessary amounts shall be entered in the general budget of the union as a provision. the procedures which will be used to obtain the transfer of the funds seem to me to be good and efficient. the dialogue between the commission and the authority should ensure the success of the procedural agreement, see the case of arcelormittal liège sa, operating in the crude steel sector, which has seen a significant decline in sales in recent years, due to the strong entry of steel from asia into the world market and the high and significant cost of labour and the decline in demand in the automotive and construction sectors. i consider the egf's intervention to be a positive and decisive procedure aimed at supporting and defending individual european workers who are placed in a redundancy fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the present application, which concerns the mobilisation of the egf in favour of belgium, because it aims to support, at a time of extreme precariousness, 1 285 redundant workers in the arcelormittal liège s.a. company, which is active in the production of crude steel. i therefore think that the intervention of this fund is justified, since european workers are affected by the structural changes in world trade and not by their own demerits.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the egf in respect of the application from belgium for the re-employment of workers made redundant by arcelor mittal liège s.a., a company active in the metallurgical sector. the european steel industry, while boasting important strengths, is facing serious economic disruptions, mainly due to the crisis, and issues such as the relative increase in production costs, which hamper its competitiveness. the rapid decline in the eu-27 market share from 16% to 10% from 2007 to 2013 has had a negative impact on european companies in the sector, causing the loss of a large number of jobs. in the specific case of the city of liège, the metallurgical sector, which has already contracted in recent years, is again affected by the downsizing of arcelor mittal, leading to a further increase in the already high unemployment. the egf will help to co-finance some of the measures planned by the belgian authorities, in particular personalised services for resettlement, training, retraining and promotion of entrepreneurship. i hope that by voting today i will be contributing to the process of training and reintegration of workers which is essential for the economic recovery of the region.
in writing. ‒ belgium submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf following 1 285 redundancies in arcelormittal liegi sa, a company active in the production of base metals. the redundancies are linked to a serious economic disturbance, in particular a rapid decline in the european steel market share. 910 people are expected to benefit from the measures financed. i welcomed the fact that, in order to provide workers with rapid assistance, the belgian authorities decided to start the implementation of personalised services to the workers concerned on 1 january 2014, well before the decision on granting egf support for the proposed coordinated package. i note that the redundancies at arcelormittal sa liège will have a huge negative impact on the liège region, a region heavily dependent on the metalworking sector, where the impact of the downsizing of arcelormittal is significant as it represents 78,9% of employment in the metalworking sector and 14,3% in the manufacturing sector. i therefore vote in favour, hoping that europe will invest adequately in innovation to achieve the competitiveness of the european steel industry.
in writing. ‒ full support is given to the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the steel company arcelormittal liège sa, as well as to the other mobilisations of the fund foreseen for today's vote. the economic consequences of the structural changes in world trade due to globalisation have led to a decline in the european union's market shares in the world metal industry or to a flight of companies to third countries, confirming the need for intelligent use of the fund. the principle of solidarity must remain at the heart of the european union's integration process and is essential to cope with the changes imposed by the world economy and the effects of the crisis. we must be aware of the temporary nature of the measures offered by the egf and of course find other answers to achieve sustainable growth in the european union. only with a genuine industrial policy strategy can the european union become competitive again in the world.
in writing. ‒ the steel industry in which arcelormittal liège sa operates has been affected by severe economic disturbances, in particular a rapid decline in its eu market share. the decline in the competitiveness of the steel industry has led to the redundancy of 752 workers at arcelormittal liège s.a. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to support these workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide additional support for the workers of the belgian steelworks arcelor mittal. the crisis in the steel industry in europe is still very serious. the challenge facing the steel industry is very ambitious, since it must combine the protection of workers from pollution risks on the one hand and of european enterprises from competition which is leaving them behind in the world market and from the general fall in demand for steel due to the general reduction in investment. europe must therefore set out a roadmap to put the steel industry back at the centre of industrial policies and transform it into a sustainable and profitable sector.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the granting of the fund for € 1 591 486 for 1 285 redundancies in the metallurgical sector in wallonia.
in writing. by unlocking the european globalisation adjustment fund, the european union is giving a concrete signal of support to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade, thus facilitating their reintegration into the labour market. i therefore welcome the approval of the report on the case of the corporate reorganisation of arcelor mittal. in this as in many other cases, europe is only intervening to cover the decline in competitiveness and to provide firms and workers with new tools for the reconversion of skills and vocational skills. these are decisive instruments: the hope is that the efforts to re-energize production that the eu has undertaken with the new juncker plan will gradually make eu businesses finally stronger in the global market, thus reversing the decline that part of our industrial sector has suffered in recent years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision to mobilise a contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund of eur 1 591 486 for the company arcelormittal liège sa. the crisis is still going on, the steel industry is still down, the workers are still being laid off. the redundancy of 1 285 workers by arcelormittal highlights the serious difficulties facing the european steel industry in coping with the changes in the world market and the economic crisis. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. we are faced with dramatic decisions that have devastating effects on the affected regions: the steel industry in liège has seen its employment rate fall by 32% in six years, and this is a new and very serious blow to the region. production costs, declining demand in related sectors, competitiveness of the sector: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: in the meantime, the workers are paying the bill: the commission's proposal to finance personalised retraining, conversion and vocational training services through the egf is a necessary step in this and other similar cases.
in writing. ‒ the egf aims to facilitate the rapid reintegration of redundant workers into employment through personalised support measures such as information sessions, counselling and guidance, skills assessment, vocational training and recruitment incentives. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the egf for a total amount of eur 1 591 486 for belgium and the 1 285 workers of arcelor mittal, a company active in the metallurgical sector.
in writing. ‒ the need to ensure the overall competitiveness of the sector, as well as the desire to contribute to the preservation of jobs in europe, led me to welcome the negrescu report, which calls for the mobilisation of the egf to help 752 redundant workers at arcelormittal, a belgian metalworking industry.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for belgium to support the reintegration into the labour market of arcelor mittal workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade. according to the data provided by the belgian authorities, the steel production sector in which arcelor mittal liège sa operates has suffered from severe economic disturbances, in particular a rapid decline in the eu market share. the effects of these changes in trade flows were compounded by other factors such as the decreasing demand for steel in the eu automotive and construction sectors as a result of the economic crisis and a related increase in production costs (raw materials, energy, environmental constraints, etc.). these factors have undermined the competitiveness of the eu steel industry and caused the loss of a large number of steel jobs in recent years due to plant closures and restructuring by various steel producers in europe. the european aid approved today will be used to co-finance three main areas: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the present application relates to the mobilisation of the egf for a total amount of eur 1 591 486 for belgium. since the european union has a duty to provide legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support for workers who are victims of the market changes caused by globalisation, i thought it appropriate to express my agreement with the negrescu report, which calls for the mobilisation of the egf to help 1 285 vacancies at arcelormittal liège sa, a company active in the metallurgical sector.
in writing. ‒ whereas the european union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market; that union financial support to redundant workers should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible, in accordance with the joint statement of the european parliament, the council and the commission; that the adoption of the egf regulation reflects the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the reintroduction of the crisis mobilisation criterion, the increased efficiency of the processing of egf applications within the commission and by the parliament and the council achieved by reducing the time taken for evaluation and approval, the extension of eligible actions and beneficiaries to self-employed persons and young people, and the financing of incentives for the creation of own enterprises; i have voted in favour of the proposal, since i am convinced that the application for assistance meets the conditions for eligibility laid down in the egf regulation.
in writing. ‒ in the case of the redundancy claim submitted by arcelormittal, another belgian company in the steel industry, it is also right to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to help workers made redundant as a result of the crisis affecting the steel industry, as we saw in the previous case. the personalised service to be co-financed covers three main areas: conversion, training and retraining and promotion of entrepreneurship. it is important to note that the belgian authorities have confirmed that the proposed actions will not receive any financial support from other union funds or financial instruments and that any double financing will be prevented and that they will be complementary to the actions financed by the structural funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which offers practical help to several belgian workers in a company that is struggling to face the challenges of the global market. this is also a united europe.
in writing. i voted in favour to protect the workers.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report to support the reintegration into the labour market of 910 workers made redundant by globalisation at arcelormittal, a subsidiary of the worldwide steelmaking group arcelormittal, based in liège. the liège site has had to face two announcements of the intention to close down certain production activities in recent years, in order to concentrate the site's activity on a few strategic production lines. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the costs of the measures in question, which are not covered by the commission's investigation. the eur 1 591 486 grant from the globalisation adjustment fund, in addition to the funds already provided by the walloon region, will help to cover part of the costs of assistance and support in job search, vocational training, support for business creation and other programmes aimed at re-entering the labour market for 910 beneficiary workers.
in writing. i supported the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in support of the request by belgium for financial assistance following the employment of 1 285 redundant workers at arcelormittal liège, a steel company. the sector has suffered a sharp fall in market share at european level, due to major structural changes in international trade, aggravated by the impact of the economic crisis and the increase in energy costs. although i am convinced that a long-term strategy is needed to tackle the causes of the problems rather than the symptoms, i wanted to support this measure which will in any case facilitate the retraining and reintegration of workers in difficulty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the egf, the european globalisation adjustment fund, for the 1,030 redundancies at caterpillar in belgium.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for caterpillar because i think that we need to help our companies on european soil to cope with the challenges of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which refers to the claim concerning 1030 workers made redundant by caterpillar belgium s.a., a company active in the manufacture of machinery and equipment. due to the considerably higher production costs in europe compared to asia, caterpillar has developed a business plan for the reduction of activities in belgium, causing the loss of 1030 jobs and causing a direct negative impact on several downstream producers for which caterpillar is the main supplier. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide a financial contribution in response to demand.
in writing. ‒ in the charleroi region, the unemployment rate is among the lowest in wallonia and many of the unemployed are poorly qualified. this mobilisation of the fund is in favour of 1 030 redundancies in caterpillar belgium s.a., a company active in the manufacture of machinery and equipment n.e.c. (not otherwise classifiable), a market in decline in europe as a result of lower production costs of manufacturing equipment in asia. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to caterpillar.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis has not spared one of caterpillar's most important european sites, the one in gosselies, belgium, which has seen a steady and drastic reduction in production volume since 2009: in 2009 its production was already reduced by 75% . the loss of competitiveness, mainly due to production costs, has led to the redundancy of 1 030 workers and the efforts made over the years by the company have been in vain. the crisis will unfortunately also have repercussions on the companies operating in the industry. if we want to maintain our production in europe, we must rethink a more effective european industrial policy to protect the industrial sector from competition from third countries with very low labour costs. i voted in favour of the request from belgium to the european commission, which was also welcomed by the council's budget committee, to mobilise eur 1 222 854.
in writing. ‒ i thought i would vote in favour of this measure because the european fund established provides support for workers who are being affected by the structural changes in world trade. the fund may not exceed the annual ceiling of eur 150 million (2011 prices). the necessary amounts shall be entered in the general budget of the union as a provision. the procedures which will be used to obtain the transfer of the funds seem to me to be good and efficient. the dialogue between the commission and the authority should ensure the successful outcome of the procedural agreement: the commission has also taken the view that the aid granted to the company is compatible with the common market, and that it is compatible with the common market if it is granted in accordance with the common market. according to the belgian authorities, caterpillar's production facilities are located in the vicinity of their markets, which explains the reduction in gosselies' workforce. since 2007, caterpillar has built plants in asia and latin america. caterpillar's sales in asia have more than doubled. i consider the intervention of the european fund to be a positive and decisive procedure aimed at supporting and defending individual european workers placed in a redundancy fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the present application, which concerns the mobilisation of the egf in favour of belgium, with a view to providing assistance to the 1 030 redundant workers at the gosselies production plant of caterpillar belgium sa, a company specialising in the manufacture of engines. i voted in favour for two other reasons: the first is that the employment rate in the charleroi region (over 50%) is among the lowest in the walloon region, and the second is that a substantial proportion of redundant workers are at risk of exclusion from the labour market because they fall within the 55-64 age group.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the egf in respect of the application from belgium for the re-employment of workers made redundant by caterpillar belgium s.a., a company active in the manufacture of construction machinery and equipment. the contraction in demand and high production costs in europe led the company to invest in emerging countries in asia and africa, reducing the size of its european plants. this decision has a negative impact on other manufacturers for whom caterpillar is the main supplier and results in the loss of jobs for a large number of employees of the company and its subcontractors. the consequences are very serious, particularly in the light of the already difficult labour market situation in the charleroi area and the surrounding areas. funding from the egf will be used to provide personalised support services to redundant workers such as information and guidance for re-employment, vocational training and retraining courses, support for entrepreneurial initiatives. i hope that this will help to contain the negative effects of caterpillar's production downsizing plan and, in general, to reduce the problem of unemployment in the region.
in writing. ‒ belgium has submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf, following 1030 redundancies in caterpillar belgium sa, a company manufacturing machinery and equipment n.e.c. (not otherwise classifiable): 630 people will benefit from social and training support. the excesses are linked to the decline in demand in europe. many of the unemployed in the charleroi region are unskilled, 59% have no upper secondary education, and 43% have been unemployed for more than 2 years. i regret to say that the employment rate in charleroi is 52.26%, one of the lowest in the walloon region. the caterpillar redundancies will have a huge negative impact on the charleroi region, which is facing a very difficult labour market situation due to its over-reliance on traditional industrial work and the lack of opening up of new industries. i think the vote in favour is due.
in writing. ‒ caterpillar belgium s.a. has decided to reduce production activities at its european plants due to considerably higher production costs in europe. the company has drawn up a business plan for the reduction of activities at their gosselies plant which will result in the redundancy of 663 workers. i supported the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund because it will support the reintegration into the labour market of redundant workers at caterpillar belgium sa.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the granting of eur 1 222 854 (60% of the total) for 1 030 redundancies in the machinery and equipment manufacturing sector in belgium.
in writing. by unlocking the european globalisation adjustment fund, the european union is giving a concrete signal of support to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade, thus facilitating their reintegration into the labour market. i therefore welcome the approval of the report on the caterpillar corporate reorganisation case. in this as in many other cases, europe is only intervening to cover the decline in competitiveness and to provide firms and workers with new tools for the reconversion of skills and vocational skills. these are decisive instruments: the hope is that the efforts to re-energize production that the eu has undertaken with the new juncker plan will gradually make eu businesses finally stronger in the global market, thus reversing the decline that part of our industrial sector has suffered in recent years.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr jäätteenmäki. as in the other cases we are voting on today, we have allocated resources to ensure that some of the workers who have been made redundant are reintegrated into the labour market. in the present case, 663 employees of caterpillar belgium s.a. lost their jobs as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. unfortunately, the failure of several belgian companies is leading to a process of loss of production capacity and social discomfort. the european globalisation adjustment fund can make a positive and practical contribution to this.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of this report. i believe that the measures proposed by the commission can provide adequate support for those who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade. the aid was granted to 1 030 redundant workers in caterpillar belgium s.a., a company active in the manufacture of machinery and equipment. i voted in favour of the allocation of the fund to belgium.
in writing. ‒ the belgian region of charleroi is experiencing extreme difficulties, due to its excessive dependence on employment in the industrial sector and the low level of qualifications of its workers. for these reasons, i thought it appropriate to express my agreement with the jäätteenmäki report, which supports the mobilisation of the egf to support 663 redundant workers at caterpillar belgium sa.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for belgium to support the reintegration into the labour market of caterpillar workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade. according to the data provided by the belgian authorities, caterpillar was severely affected by the decline in demand for vehicle assembly products and components, which were exclusively intended for the european construction and mining sectors. the caterpillar group has, in fact, decided to invest abroad since 2007, building plants in emerging countries in asia and latin america. therefore, its growth today is mainly linked to these markets: for example, caterpillar's share of sales in asia more than doubled from 2007 to 2013. this is due to the general growth of asian economies, especially in china and india, and the construction industry in these countries. on the other hand, gosselies caterpillar's main market, the european union, is dependent on public and private investment in european infrastructure, which has recently been sharply reduced. the european aid granted today will be active labour market measures aimed at reintegrating these redundant workers.
in writing. ‒ the profound change in the international trading system, due to the advance of globalisation and the economic and financial crisis, has led belgium to total economic oppression. it is essential that the european union acts in support of the country and its citizens if the burden of the economic depression is to be made bearable. that is why i felt it necessary to express my agreement with the jäätteenmäki report, which calls for the mobilisation of the egf to help 1 030 redundant workers in caterpillar belgium sa.
in writing. ‒ whereas the european union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market; that union financial support to redundant workers should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible, in accordance with the joint statement of the european parliament, the council and the commission; that the adoption of the egf regulation reflects the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the reintroduction of the mobilisation criterion following the crisis, the increased efficiency of the processing of egf applications within the commission and by the european parliament and the council achieved by reducing the time taken for evaluation and approval, the extension of eligible actions and beneficiaries to self-employed persons and young people, and the financing of incentives for the creation of own businesses; i have voted in favour of the proposal, since i am convinced that the application for assistance meets the conditions for eligibility laid down in the egf regulation.
in writing. ‒ as has been reiterated, the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to provide support to workers in companies suffering from the adverse economic climate and major structural changes in world trade, especially in this phase of severe generalised crisis. in this case, it is caterpillar belgium and, as the data show, all the major manufacturers of these products in europe have suffered a sharp fall in demand and a significant part of their production capacity has been relocated to third countries. as this sector is linked to the construction and mining sector, we can easily see how, to a contraction of the market in europe, it is countered by an expansion of the same in emerging markets such as latin america and asia. the reintegration of redundant workers into the labour market will be aided by the personalised services provided, such as general and conversion training, vocational training, coaching, post-reintegration support and entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ another request for help for a belgian company. i believe that if europe can do good, it must do good to all the member states and above all to the workers in the firms that need it most. that is why i voted in favour of mrs jäätteenmäki's report.
in writing. i voted in favour to protect workers affected by redundancies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of 630 workers made redundant by globalisation at caterpillar, an industrial machinery manufacturing plant based in gosselies in the charleroi region. the decline in demand for its specialised products in europe for the construction and mining sectors (vehicle assembly, welded components and structures) has led caterpillar to relocate a large part of its production capacity to third countries, particularly in asia, where there is a strong growth in demand for these products. the reduction in european production has hit the gosselies site hard, with hundreds of redundancies in a region with an unemployment rate of 52%. the eur 1 222 854 grant from the globalisation adjustment fund, in addition to the funds already provided by the walloon region, will help to cover part of the costs of assistance and support in job search, vocational training, support for business creation and other programmes aimed at re-entering the labour market for 630 beneficiary workers.
in writing. i voted in favour of the decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for belgium, to support 630 redundant jobs at caterpillar, a machinery manufacturing company which, at european level, has been hit hard not only by the strong competition from emerging economies but also by the economic and financial crisis. the contribution of eur 1.2 million is intended to facilitate the retraining and reintegration of workers, including in new business sectors, in a region, charleroi, characterised by a difficult working environment due to its dependence on industrial employment. i believe that the fund is a useful instrument to alleviate some of the effects of international competition and the crisis on workers, but it cannot remain the only instrument to be entrusted with the management of the crisis, economic conversion and unemployment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this recommendation because it is important for the safety and security of all that heavy goods vehicles and buses travelling within the union comply with certain standards as regards weight, height, length and width. it is also for safety reasons that it is right to grant exemptions and allow manufacturers to introduce newly designed devices. engineering and technology allow us to put vehicles on the road with better visibility for the driver, with shapes that improve impact in the event of collisions and technologies that reduce co2 emissions, among other things. the road hauliers provide a vital service and are responsible for much of the so-called free movement of goods, which is one of the symbols of a united europe. so we safeguard the category, we improve their difficult working conditions and we increase their safety and consequently our own.
in writing. ‒ i did not intend to vote in favour of the leichtfried report analysing the size and weight of road vehicles in the union, as i consider the measure to be unbalanced and more geared to the interests of large companies than those of smes, which in italy and veneto represent the backbone of our economy.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the revised directive on the dimensions and weights of road vehicles which would allow manufacturers to introduce new truck designs, which could exceed the current maximum length and weight limits for heavy duty vehicles in order to improve overall safety and environmental performance. a more rounded cab would increase the driver's field of vision by improving the ability to spot vulnerable road users, such as cyclists, and reduce drag, while a shape that facilitates deflection would reduce the impact of collisions. the addition of aerodynamic fins at the rear would also help to reduce emissions and fuel consumption. member states are required to adopt the relevant national provisions within two years of the entry into force of this revised directive. it is essential that the commission revise the directive three years after the implementation of the national rules, also taking into account certain market segments such as car carriers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr jörg leichtfried, which seeks to amend council directive 96/53/ec laying down for certain road vehicles circulating in the community the maximum authorised dimensions in national and international traffic and the maximum authorised weights in international traffic. i believe that the objectives of improving road safety, energy efficiency and environmental performance of this specific transport sector are fully acceptable.
in writing. ‒ the measure under consideration introduces a new type of heavy vehicle which would minimise road accidents by improving the driver's field of vision and giving him a better ability to identify vulnerable road users, such as cyclists. the addition of aerodynamic accessories would help to reduce consumption and harmful gas emissions, thus protecting the air and the environment. the organizational revolution in transport envisaged by the measure is far-sighted and futuristic. each member state will have to adapt to its own requirements the provisions which will be enacted with the task of safeguarding road safety by means of a structural improvement in the design of heavy goods vehicles. i shall vote in favour of these rights.
in writing. ‒ the resolution sets the maximum authorised dimensions and weights for certain road vehicles on the community's roads, with the aim of improving the driver's field of vision by reducing blind spots, including those under the windscreen, and thus saving many lives of vulnerable users, such as pedestrians or cyclists. the addition of aerodynamic accessories would also help to reduce consumption and harmful gas emissions, thus protecting the air and the environment. for these reasons i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the data on european road safety show that the targets set with the launch of the european action programmes for safety have still not been achieved. this included halving the number of road deaths by 2010, an ambitious target which must spur us on to find the courage to introduce ever higher standards. the optimum implementation of the major road infrastructure projects under the connecting europe programme will certainly be of fundamental help. however, they may not be sufficient if the safety of vehicles is not also addressed. in addition, it should be stressed that improving intermodality at european level will make it possible to shorten journey times and, consequently, reduce co2 emissions, bringing closer the achievement of another valuable environmental protection objective for europe.
in writing. ‒ the committee on transport and tourism adopted the recommendation for the second reading of the jörg leichtfried report on the council's position at first reading on the adoption of a european parliament and council directive amending directive 96/53/ec laying down, for certain road vehicles circulating in the community, the maximum authorised dimensions in national and international traffic and the maximum authorised weights in international traffic. i'm voting for it.
in writing. ‒ the report to be voted on concerns the revision of directive 96/53/ec on the dimensions and weights of road vehicles, a revision which is necessary in view of the technological progress achieved in this field in recent years. the improvements in the proposal concern vehicle aerodynamics, energy efficiency and road safety. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the measure because future long vehicles could cause greater risks to driving, both for pedestrians and in creating road discomfort in certain areas (especially in italy).
in writing. given the target set in the 2011 white paper to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 60% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels, i am voting in favour of the proposal to revise directive 96/53/ec on the weights and dimensions of motor vehicles to limit their energy consumption, in the light of new technologies and current road safety needs. to this end, i also consider it important that the directive, in accordance with the guidelines contained in the document 'towards a european road safety area 2011-2020' and in line with the sustainability objectives set out in the horizon 2020 programme, be open to certain derogations aimed at three main objectives: the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionizing radiation.
in writing. i support the report by mr jörg leichtfried on the adoption of the directive setting maximum authorized dimensions in national and international traffic and maximum authorized weights in international traffic. i believe that specific measures should be taken within the european union to identify vehicles which may exceed the weight limits.
in writing. ‒ this directive provides for derogations from the maximum authorised dimensions and weights of vehicles and combinations of vehicles laid down in directive 96/53/ec. member states should address the problem of overloading violations in an appropriate manner in order to improve and ensure better road safety. i therefore voted in favour of the recommendation on the dimensions and weights of road vehicles in the community.
in writing. ‒ eu member states should implement specific measures aimed at identifying vehicles that may have exceeded the weight limits imposed on the specific category. that is why i have decided to support, by my vote in favour, the leichtfried report, which calls for the implementation of the european parliament and council directive setting maximum authorized dimensions and weights for certain road vehicles in the community.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of this directive will allow manufacturers to introduce new truck designs, which could exceed the current maximum length and weight limits for heavy-duty vehicles in order to improve overall safety and environmental performance. it will also eliminate the unnecessary red tape faced by hauliers who have had to apply for special permits to transport such containers. we believe, however, that legislative action by the member states is essential, both to encourage regulatory approval in this area and to provide for specific measures to identify vehicles which may have exceeded the relevant length and weight limits. this is a natural safeguard for road safety for european citizens.
in writing. ‒ directive 96/53/ec on the dimensions and weights of road vehicles circulating in the community has for many years contributed to the smooth functioning of the internal road transport market by setting maximum dimensions and weights for vehicles engaged in national and international transport of goods and passengers. in the light of the evolution of the market and of the technologies available, the question arises today as to whether the choices made when it was adopted in 1996 are still relevant. in particular, the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the consumption of petroleum products has become crucial in the transport sector. for the reasons mentioned above, i thought it appropriate to vote in favour of the leichtfried report which stresses that a revision of the directive is necessary as improving the efficiency and environmental performance of road transport is an essential objective of the common transport policy.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, improve road safety, adapt the relevant legislation to technological developments and changing market needs and facilitate intermodal transport operations, while ensuring undistorted competition and protecting road infrastructure; technological developments offer the possibility of installing retractable or folding aerodynamic devices at the rear end of vehicles; i am therefore in favour of the proposal that this directive provides for derogations from the maximum authorized dimensions and weights of vehicles and combinations of vehicles laid down in directive 96/53/ec.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from vehicles by adapting existing legislation to the continuing technological developments in the sector and to a constantly changing market is a key objective, not forgetting to give priority to road safety. for these reasons, i welcome this directive from the european parliament which amends the maximum lengths of vehicles to give priority to new aerodynamic devices which allow for considerable advantages in the energy performance of vehicles. in addition, a new layout of the vehicle cabs contributes to improving road safety for all and to improving driver comfort. as regards the weight of vehicles, i think it is important that the competent authorities of the member states exchange information systematically to facilitate the carrying out of checks on the weight of vehicles. it is also important that the european parliament is informed of the controls carried out on road traffic by the competent authorities, so that it can determine whether the rules are being applied and whether additional measures are necessary.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which is the result of a long agreement between the council and the european parliament on the definition of weight limits for alternative fuelled vehicles and intermodal transport for certain containers. the aim of the report is to improve the aerodynamic aspects of commercial vehicles and their energy efficiency, thereby improving road safety and the environment.
in writing. i voted against because there is a risk that any future long vehicles could cause greater risks to drivers, to pedestrians and create road congestion in many areas.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the directive against so-called megatrans, so that their use, which is currently limited to the scandinavian countries, the united kingdom and ireland, is not extended to all eu countries. at present, 26% of co2 emissions from european road transport are from this type of heavy-duty vehicle, and further expansion of this type of vehicle would have dangerous effects on pollution. for this reason too, this directive not only imposes a weight and size limit on vehicles, but also encourages the use of combined transport, such as road and rail, or road and sea transport, in order to ensure that road transport is used less. the directive also calls for the development of safer and more environmentally friendly cabs, thanks to aerodynamic improvements that will reduce fuel consumption and allow drivers to have fewer blind spots, improving safety on european roads, which, with more than 120,000 fatalities a year, are the main cause of death in europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, at this time of severe economic crisis, from which it seems increasingly difficult to emerge, it is an urgent priority to lead the european union in creating jobs. long-term investment could achieve this by financing both tangible activities, such as infrastructure, and intangible activities, such as research and development, which are key sectors for growth. more importantly, long-term financing is a key tool for smart growth, so as to avoid new crises. the second point i would like to make is that the european longterm investment funds will be able to provide a vital source of income for all those who need longterm prospects, and i am thinking of municipalities and small and mediumsized enterprises. if we want this system to work, however, we must not forget the tax aspect. the union should show all member states the way to introducing tax breaks that are particularly beneficial to those who decide to invest in the long term.
in writing. ‒ the lamassoure report analyses the european long-term investment funds, a multiannual financial instrument whose purpose is to catalyse public and private investment to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. although i share some of the aims of the regulation, such as the aim of achieving a high employment rate, i abstained because i think the text is unbalanced and i do not think that, given the way the funds are structured, they will achieve the objectives they set.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this supplementary report because i do think that we need a regulation in order to boost european long-term investments in the real economy.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the supplementary report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european long-term investment funds. i believe that long-term financing can be an important tool to help the european economy grow and to stimulate competitiveness and employment. furthermore, i believe it is very important that these funds are framed in the context of the europe 2020 strategy to promote smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. progress in achieving the objectives of this strategy could then make more capital available. i hope, therefore, that the european long-term funds will play an important part in financing the union's real economy and implementing its policies.
in writing. ‒ european long-term investment funds (eltifs) provide long-term financing for infrastructure projects, unlisted companies or listed small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) that issue debt instruments for which there is no readily identifiable buyer. the proposal for a regulation under consideration could indeed be an opportunity to set the stage for a strong economic stimulus, but the text, as it has been drawn up, does not seem to meet the real needs. the risk is that the main beneficiaries will be large infrastructure projects and multinational groups, while smes, which have no access to capital markets, will be effectively overlooked. these constitute a major part of the union's real economy, which is in danger of being overtaken by speculative interests.
in writing. ‒ competitiveness and growth, the cornerstones of the junker plan and of the ecb's action, contrast with a european scenario characterised by a highly fragmented market and tied to national logic. more than a problem of liquidity, there is a problem of lack of guarantees for private investors who, for this reason too, have little interest in investing in europe and, above all, in making long-term investments. the banking and economic union must be brought to fruition, since it would, together with political union, fully realize the european union project and contribute to the 'fidelization' of world liquidity. to this end, it would be beneficial to have instruments such as eltifs, which are available to both public and private investors and which remove barriers to investment, allowing investors to count on a stable return. this instrument would also make it possible to invest in smes, opening up this sector - which has been hit hard by the economic crisis - to foreign investment. the report is moving in that direction and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this measure, having analysed that long-term financing is a key enabling tool to put the european economy on a path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, and of high employment and competitiveness by proposing a less risk-prone economy. the central objective of this regulation is to stimulate long-term european investment in the real economy (infrastructure, intellectual property, ships, equipment, machinery, aircraft or rolling stock and real estate). eltifs represent the first step towards the creation of an integrated internal market for raising capital that can be channelled towards long-term investment in the european economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this measure because i believe that the european long-term investment funds are a key instrument for a smart growth path, so as to avoid new crises. i agree with the intention of making these funds a revenue stream for all those who need long-term prospects, such as municipalities or small and mediumsized enterprises. if we want this system to work, however, we must not forget the fiscal aspect: i believe that the union should show all the member states the way to introduce disincentives for those who decide to invest in the long term.
in writing. ‒ the proposed eltif regulation aims to mobilise and channel private capital through alternative investment funds, such as hedge funds, towards long-term investments in the real economy. in particular, it is expected that eltifs invest at least 70% of their capital in financial instruments of unlisted companies and listed smes, in shares or units of other funds and in real assets of more than eur 10 million such as infrastructure, real estate, ships and aircraft. they are also intended as a priority instrument for the implementation of the juncker plan and for eib projects. i am voting against because of the many criticisms of the design of these funds and the doubts about their real economic and social utility. although presented as a long-term financing instrument to support the real economy, eltifs are nevertheless authorised to invest in non-productive real assets such as real estate, ships and aircraft as well as in public infrastructure, including transport infrastructure such as roads, airports, public transport, but also energy, water or waste management, industrial plants, public buildings. in this way the regulation facilitates access for hedge funds to financing of common goods and in fact opens the way to privatisation.
in writing. ‒ the sense of recovery that europe is experiencing is hardly maturing and strengthening to the point of creating the conditions to start producing wealth and new employment, reversing the trend of recent years. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial system is not affected by the crisis. even today, there is little evidence of a reversal of this trend. in this respect, the initiatives of the european institutions are essential in order to put in place instruments to support and finance the growth and development of enterprises and firms, enabling them to obtain the necessary capital. long-term investment funds are all the more important because they impact on high-risk projects which just as ambitious need long periods to produce profits. it will be important to clarify the parliament's monitoring role, especially in relation to the selection of projects, giving priority to those potentially most likely to have an impact on the labour market and the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. ‒ i abstain on the regulation on long-term european investment funds. i share some of the aims of the regulation (including the achievement of a high employment rate) but i am very critical of the fact that the current european commission is able to draw positive results in terms of wealth creation and/or development from this type of operation. some observers, however, have pointed out that instruments which can offer results in the short term are preferable.
in writing. ‒ with the european long-term investment funds, we have created a new tool for the eu to stimulate growth. these funds will help smes, individual and professional investors and insurance companies to invest in projects involving infrastructure, equipment, machinery, research and education, and in doing so, will provide a cascade of benefits to the eu economy. for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution, but i am convinced that parliament must continue to examine this project so that the funds can really reach the citizens in an effective way without excessive bureaucratic steps.
in writing. i welcome with mr lamassoure the important approval of the report on the european investment fund. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the european investment fund is only a first step towards a full recovery, but it is essential that all the european institutions - starting with the council and the contribution of the individual member states - do their utmost to make the juncker plan and the new regulatory framework envisaged by the fund a reality. the european parliament must continue to ensure that the new plan is based on the objectives of genuine modernisation, of making europe attractive to investors and of reviving the productive and industrial capacity of our continent. you know, mr president, that many active sectors of research and the knowledge economy have raised concerns about the partial financing of the new fund with a significant share coming from the horizon 2020 programme and the connecting europe facility. it would be desirable at least to ensure that these funds, although diverted from the multiannual budgetary commitment of such major programmes, could at least maintain a direct allocation under the projects of the new investment plan to the renewal of the infrastructure essential for european competitiveness and research.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the report on the european long-term investment funds (eltifs) to help finance smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to finance the needs of the infrastructure project in europe until 2020, because i believe that the eu needs innovative financial instruments that foster growth and quality jobs at this time, in order to put an end to the precariousness of entire generations in recent times. the crisis has highlighted the weakness of traditional sources of long-term finance, including insurance and pension funds. the creation of this new investment vehicle is therefore aimed at encouraging professional investors (companies, municipalities, insurance companies) to invest in assets such as non-listed companies, which require long-term capital, some listed smes, intellectual property assets. i particularly welcome the strongly held position of the european parliament which fought for a compromise with the council which includes provisions to ensure that eltifs contribute to the eu's real economy, are able to offer redemption rights under certain conditions, operate in a transparent manner and provide adequate information to investors.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by mr alain lamassoure as it aims to stimulate long-term european investment in the real economy. i believe that the european union must steer its economy towards a path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in order to foster employment and competitiveness. we must now seriously reverse this trend, encourage and encourage the creation of new jobs, especially for our young people, attract new capital and support enterprises to make productive and effective investments.
in writing. i voted in favour of the regulation on european long-term investment funds because it will increase the capital available for long-term investment in the european union economy. the regulation will create a framework of rules with the aim of ensuring that long-term funds can genuinely contribute to the growth of the economy, that the operating conditions for all 'players' on the investment markets of funds are harmonised and that they are not invested in speculative assets. in addition, the proposal contains rules on eligible investment policies, such as rules on eligible investments, portfolio composition and diversification, conflicts of interest, concentration and money lending.
in writing. ‒ the european union should work more effectively to steer its economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, which promotes employment and competitiveness. i have chosen to support the lamassoure report because, on the basis of the principle that european long-term investment funds guarantee greater capital market mobilization, it proposes measures to stimulate their implementation.
in writing. ‒ we support this proposal for a regulation, as we believe that long-term financing is a key enabling tool to put the european economy on a path to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, as envisaged by the europe 2020 strategy. the european economy needs to be given less risky and more resilient tools: european long-term investment funds (eltifs) may have this objective, i.e. to provide financing for infrastructure projects of various kinds, for unlisted companies or for long-term listed small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) that issue equity or debt instruments for which there is no readily identifiable buyer. with this proposal we therefore intend to stimulate all long-term european investment, whether it be for projects, enterprises or infrastructure also in third countries.
in writing. ‒ the legislative proposal under consideration establishes a new regulatory framework to create european long-term investment funds (eltifs) to improve the real economy and society by channelling non-bank funds towards long-term projects. long-term financing is a key enabler to put the european economy on a path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, and of high employment and competitiveness, to give the economy of the future a structure that is less exposed to systemic risks and more resilient. i have decided to vote in favour of mr lamassoure's report on this point because i believe it is essential to ensure that the european real economy is financed in the long term, given that funding is scarce today and, even where it is, it is too concentrated on short-term objectives.
in writing. ‒ whereas long-term financing is a key enabler for putting the european economy on a path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, and of high employment and competitiveness, to give the economy of the future a structure that is less exposed to systemic risks and more resilient. whereas the european long-term investment funds provide financing for infrastructure projects of various kinds, for unlisted companies or for long-term listed small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) which issue equity or debt instruments for which there is no readily identifiable buyer. whereas by financing such projects, eltifs contribute to the financing of the union's real economy and the implementation of its policies; that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i believe that long-term financing is an important tool to stimulate investment and help the european economy to grow in a systematic, sustainable and inclusive way, while at the same time fostering more employment and stronger competitiveness. that is why i am in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european long-term investment funds, eltifs, which provide adequate financing for infrastructure projects of various kinds, for unlisted companies and for the small and mediumsized enterprises which are the backbone of our economy. this is how the real economy is financed and how the european union is helped to implement its policies. for this reason, an eu regulation disciplining eltifs is needed, as otherwise there is a risk that divergent measures with different levels of investor protection may be adopted at national level. the adoption of uniform rules eliminates distortions of competition and strengthens investor confidence in such funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation as it aims to increase the capital available for long-term investment, through the creation of a fund called eu long term investment funds which will operate by ensuring consistent rules across the eu and harmonising the operating conditions for all stakeholders in the investment funds market. following the agreement reached between parliament and the council, it was decided that this fund would only provide funds for long-term projects. europe is in great need of this type of investment.
in writing. i have chosen to abstain as i share some of the aims of the regulation (including the achievement of a high employment rate), but i am sceptical that these funds will achieve their objectives.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken in favour of the creation of european long-term investment funds (eltifs). i believe that this new investment vehicle can make a decisive contribution to financing the eu's real economy, promoting smart growth and competitiveness. the accessibility of eltifs, which are intended for investors willing to commit capital to long-term assets in exchange for a constant return, is of strategic importance in order to optimise the capital stock available to european companies and to win the trust of new public and private investors.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the supplementary report on the european long-term investment funds (eltif). eltifs are funds that allow investors to contribute financially to long-term projects, such as the construction of infrastructure. this new instrument ensures the protection of investors and the companies and projects in which the investment is made. the purpose of eltifs is to reduce dependency on the banking system and to support the financing of the real economy, thereby supporting recovery in the european union. i believe that eltifs represent a positive innovation in the european financial system and i believe that they can contribute to a much-needed recovery of investment in europe.
in writing. ‒ today's vote gives europe a powerful new tool that will not only give a stronger push to long-term investment financing, but also help build the capital markets union. the lack of investment and the financial crisis have presented us with several challenges: maximising economic growth, increasing financial stability, removing obstacles to cross-border investment, ensuring consumer protection and at the same time strengthening competition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr bidegain's report analysing the legislative proposal on interbank charges for credit card payments. i think this is a very balanced text, the legislative process has been long and the negotiations complex, but the final result is a widely shared legislative proposal which has put consumer needs first without imposing unsustainable market conditions on operators as is often the case.
in writing. ‒ there are about 760 million cards in circulation in the eu, an average of 1.5 cards per person, with a 6% increase in the number of transactions in 2013. however, payment by debit and credit cards comes at a cost to merchants, who pay a fee for each transaction. a cost, estimated at a total of 10 billion a year, that is often discharged on the sale price. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' to cover vehicles with a maximum mass exceeding 10 tonnes. the proposal will cap commissions at 0.2% for debit card transactions and 0.3% for credit card transactions. this is an action which should lead to a cascade of savings on retail prices and it will be important to ensure that this does not lead to a paradoxical increase in bank charges for consumers. the european commission's estimates are encouraging, with annual savings of €6 billion for traders and €730 million for consumers. my vote in favour is intended to support the developments in terms of transparency and competition in the sector which this measure is intended to produce.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this supplementary report on the interchange fees for card-based payment transactions because i think that we need legal clarity for eu citizens when they are paying with cards inside the european union.
in writing. ‒ interbank fees for card payments, paid by the cardholder's bank to the card issuing bank, are not transparent and differ across the eu. i voted in favour of this report today to ensure that the fees that banks charge retailers when they accept card payments are subject to ceilings. the limit will apply to both cross-border and domestic payments in order to reduce costs for debit and credit card users. this legislation, together with the forthcoming payment services directive, will create the same rules for all payments made in europe. it should improve the transparency of fees, stimulate competition and allow retailers and users to choose their card payment system on the most advantageous terms. the new rules mean that retailers who choose a payment card scheme will only be able to accept cards within that scheme that comply with the limits. in this case, the limits on fees will result in lower costs for both parties.
in writing. ‒ this regulation lays down uniform technical and commercial requirements within the union for card-based payment transactions where both the payer's payment service provider and the payee's payment service provider are located in the union. the intentions are certainly agreeable, but the text does not allow a full assessment of the practical effects of the measures introduced, as it does not go far enough into the analysis of the consequences themselves. i therefore decided to abstain, in order to show my interest in a measure such as the one under consideration while maintaining reservations about the text.
in writing. ‒ i considered that i would vote in favour of the measure as directive 2007/64/ec of the european parliament and of the council provided the legal basis for the creation of an internal market for payments in the union, as it substantially favoured the activity of service providers by providing uniform rules on the matter. today, payment cards are the most commonly used electronic instruments for retail purchases. there is a need to remove obstacles to the efficient functioning of payment cards, including in the area of card-based payments and payments via the internet and mobile devices based on cards. in addition to the uniform application of competition rules to interbank fees, the regulation of these fees would improve the functioning of the internal market and help to reduce transaction costs for consumers.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that the removal of obstacles to the functioning of an integrated market for electronic payments is necessary for the proper functioning of the internal market, without any distinction between national and crossborder payments. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation because it imposes common rules on interbank charges in the european union, introducing a maximum limit on payment card transactions. payment cards have become the most commonly used electronic payment instruments for retail purchases, so i believe that the regulation of interchange fees will improve the functioning of the internal market and help to reduce transaction costs for consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on interbank card payment charges. the text adopted sets a ceiling on interbank fees for payment transactions with debit and consumer credit cards (i.e. used by cardholders who are also consumers) of 0.2% and 0.3% respectively, to be calculated on the value of the transaction. the aim of this proposal is to prevent an unjustified variation in the level of these fees, since they are included in the costs incurred by the operator in the form of price increases, for receiving payments by debit or credit card. therefore, applying only to the most widespread 4-part circuits would, on the one hand, protect consumers by reducing prices and, on the other hand, prevent the creation of barriers between national payment markets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of ending the cost of fees that banks charge retailers when they accept card payments. they will be subject to ceilings, thanks to new eu-wide rules. the limit will apply to both cross-border and domestic payments and should reduce costs for debit and credit card users. the vote and the payment services directive will create a single set of rules for all payments made in europe. it should improve the transparency of fees, encourage competition and allow merchants and customers to choose their card payment system on the most advantageous terms.
in writing. ‒ the number of non-cash transactions in the market is often considered as an indicator of a country's economic development. today in this room we have taken a step forward in building the most developed international platform in this field. together with the digital agenda, the regulation on interbank card payment charges is an indication of parliament's focus on building an innovative european platform for a strengthened single market. we have removed the barriers which today prevent further market integration and this will help to have a positive effect on our economy. we have also focused our attention on the main problems connected with this market. firstly, we have harmonized legislation at european level, avoiding the creation of shadow zones and of national markets which are more competitive than others. secondly, we have prevented high interbank fees from translating into higher final prices for consumers, by means of a system of maximum and minimum thresholds. i therefore voted with conviction for this text because it protects not only our consumers but also small retailers, as well as small and mediumsized enterprises in our territory.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of a legislative proposal which, compared with what the european commission initially presented, has now reached the end of a much improved legislative process. after lengthy negotiations, a much more balanced solution was reached, setting maximum values and leaving the member states free to intervene with further cuts in domestic transactions.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote, the european parliament has finally shown that it is able to stand by its citizens. interbank fees have for too long been a hidden cost to consumers as well as to traders, breaching antitrust rules, as the eu court of justice ruled last september. this regulation puts an end to the abuses of certain banks and sets limits on them, introducing a more transparent mechanism which balances the needs of the free market with those of the protection of the interests of consumers and traders. for these reasons i voted in favour of this proposal, hoping that this regulation will mark a new beginning in the direction of a european union which is increasingly at the side of the citizens and protecting their interests.
in writing. i vote in favour of the proposal for a regulation on interbank fees for payment transactions made by credit card, atm, online or by telephone applications. therefore, in line with the views of the european central bank and the european economic and social committee, and in view of the problems that the fragmentation of the internal market can cause for competitiveness and the fact that a single, controlled, effective and secure regulation would reassure traders against the risks of paying too high commissions on sales and at the same time encourage consumers to use electronic money for a physiological reduction in costs, i would like to express my support for setting a certain ceiling within the union, harmonizing and controlling interbank commissions, with the necessary adjustment periods for the member states, for a paneuropean market that is not limited by territorial restrictions, capable of technical interoperability between the different processing systems in the union and at the same time more open and also more stimulating for free purchasing.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by mr pablo zalba bidegain. the proposal for a regulation aims to improve the conditions for the functioning and development of the internal market in payments. the removal of direct and indirect obstacles to the functioning of an integrated market for electronic payments is necessary for the proper functioning of the european internal market.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, this regulation, combined with the revised proposals of the payment services directives will create common rules for interchange fees in the european union by introducing a minimum level of fees for credit card payment transactions. it will also introduce transparency measures to allow retailers and consumers to choose their payment methods more clearly. the introduction of this regulation will limit the fixed costs that banks impose on sellers to process payments. the proposed rules aim to increase transparency, stimulate competition and allow both sellers and customers to choose the card scheme that offers them the best conditions.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the european union has seen a fragmentation of its internal market. the proper functioning of the european internal market requires work to remove the direct and indirect obstacles to the full efficiency of electronic payments. i voted in favour of the bidegain report because it aims to improve the conditions for the functioning and development of the internal market in payments.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of this proposal is a further instrument for removing direct and indirect obstacles to the functioning and completion of the eu internal market. in this case, our aim is to promote the creation of an integrated market for electronic payments, without any distinction between national and crossborder payments. we are, unfortunately, fully aware of the damage that fragmentation of the internal market is doing to competitiveness, growth and job creation in the union. in order for consumers, merchants and businesses to fully enjoy the benefits of the internal market, it is essential that the electronic payments they use are secure, efficient, competitive and innovative. in order to ensure greater legal certainty, as administrative decisions in force in some member states often vary significantly from one another, it is necessary to find a way of more uniformising the levels of interbank fees. in addition to the uniform application of competition rules to interchange fees, the regulation of such fees would improve the functioning of the internal market and help reduce transaction costs for european consumers.
in writing. ‒ in an era of increasingly widespread card payments, a business model still prevails that favours the emergence of multilateral interbank fees (mifs) and that, by impacting on retailers' costs, ultimately affects prices charged to consumers. the regulation set out in the report proposes to introduce ceilings for the fees charged to consumers for transactions with debit and credit cards and prohibits the application of surcharges for these types of cards. surcharges are commonly used, particularly when buying air tickets. the caps on interbank fees will reduce the cost of card transactions at the expense of retailers considerably and will therefore eliminate the motivation behind the surcharges. as the proposed regulation will improve the conditions for the functioning and development of the internal market for payments and will promote greater consumer protection, i have decided to support the report with a favourable vote.
in writing. ‒ whereas the fragmentation of the internal market is detrimental to competitiveness, growth and job creation in the union; whereas the removal of direct and indirect obstacles to the proper functioning and completion of an integrated market for electronic payments, without distinction between national and cross-border payments, is necessary for the proper functioning of the internal market; whereas directive 2007/64/ec of the european parliament and of the council (8) provided the legal basis for the creation of an internal market for payments in the union, as it substantially favoured the activity of payment service providers by providing uniform rules on the provision of payment services, for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ it is to protect consumers that i am in favour of adopting this resolution which allows for the regulation of interbank transaction fees in a uniform and coordinated way at european level. for the internal market to work, we must ensure that the direct and indirect obstacles to the functioning and completion of an integrated market for electronic payments are reduced by eliminating the distinction between national and cross-border payments. applying european competition rules to interbank fees will improve the functioning of the internal market but above all will reduce transaction costs, to the benefit of all european citizens. it is also important that member states lay down penalties applicable to infringements of the regulation, ensuring that those penalties are effective and dissuasive and that they are enforced.
in writing. ‒ in the internal market of the european union, it is important that there are no barriers to the smooth functioning of transactions carried out electronically, without distinguishing between national and cross-border payments, with uniform rules in the way of payment services. of course, all users of electronic payments in the single market - consumers, merchants and businesses - need to know that they can make them safely, efficiently and quickly, now that electronic commerce is becoming more widespread. in order to facilitate the smooth functioning of the internal market and card-based payments, it is appropriate that interchange fees be uniform, whether they are minimal or zero. it would also be interesting if the commission were to provide a report examining the effects of this regulation on the internal market and the benefits it brings to trade.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report by mr zalba bidegain because the purpose of this regulation is to improve the conditions for the functioning and development of the card payments market by creating common rules and setting ceilings for commission charges. this means being closer to the european citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour because the text is more balanced than the one originally presented by the european commission, setting a threshold for interbank transaction fees and leaving the member states free to intervene, reducing them further for domestic transactions.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote, europe finally adopts legislation that, together with the forthcoming payment services directive, will create the same rules for all payments made in the 28 member states. i am convinced that the new rules will help to improve the transparency of fees and stimulate competition by allowing retailers and users to choose their card payment system under the most favourable conditions: this is a benefit for consumers and for millions of traders.
in writing. the mif regulation will introduce a cap on interbank fees paid to banks by merchants for credit and debit card payments for the first time in europe. the regulation has aroused great enthusiasm but it does in fact conceal some areas of shadow and some critical points. the regulation does not apply to commercial cards, cash withdrawals and payments made through certain payment systems (such as american express, diners and paypal) where the service is operated by a single bank for each consumer and merchant. these derogations exclude a large market share from the regulation and make the legislation incomplete. to be effective and efficient, it would have been appropriate to include all payment systems and all cards. in the long term, it is possible that these exemptions will have a boomerang effect on consumers. in fact, it is very likely that the losses that banks will suffer as a result of the introduction of the ceilings will be offset by charges to consumers. this is supported by the recent spanish experience of roofing at national level. the regulation was negotiated during the previous legislature and therefore m5s did not have enough room to make significant changes. therefore, m5s chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i very much welcome today's vote on the proposal for a regulation on interbank card payment fees, whereby the european parliament has put an end to the opaque fees charged for this type of payment, and whereby both retailers and buyers will benefit from a reduction in costs for both. the ultimate aim of parliament is to improve the transparency of fees, stimulate competition and allow retailers and users to choose their card payment system on the most advantageous terms. i expect parliament to continue along this path and to adopt as soon as possible the directive on payment services, so as to complete the legislative framework for the benefit of customers in particular. companies in several european countries are still facing excessive costs in making electronic payment forms available to customers; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the egf, the european globalisation adjustment fund, for a sum of € 1 339 928 for 257 redundancies in the production of safety glass for the automotive industry following the closure of the auvelais plant in belgium.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for saint-gobain because i think that we need to help our companies on european soil to cope with the challenges of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the proposal for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund which refers to the application submitted by belgium on 19 december 2013 for a financial contribution from the egf following 257 redundancies linked to the closure of the production plant of saint-gobain sekuritbenelux sa, a company engaged in the manufacture of safety glass for the automotive industry. the belgian authorities have pointed out that the sector in which saint-gobain sekurit is active has suffered from a serious economic disruption due to several factors, including the decline in the production of safety glass for the automotive industry in the eu, the increase in the market shares of competitors from third countries and the increase in imports of these products from the union, demonstrating the link between excesses and the evolution of globalisation. i therefore voted in favour of this measure.
in writing. ‒ the first application to mobilise the egf was in the automotive glass sector, but a number of applications have been made in the past with regard to motor vehicle manufacturers and suppliers of automotive equipment. the automotive manufacturing sector in general has in fact suffered a decline of more than 2 million units between 2007 and 2012, mainly due to massive relocation. the 257 redundancies linked to the closure of a plant in the saint-gobain sekurit (sgs) group are largely attributable to these circumstances and, although the mobilisation of the fund is normally foreseen for a minimum of 500 workers, the support for workers is an important measure, which we have therefore decided to vote in favour of.
in writing. ‒ another request for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund submitted by belgium: this time the economic sector affected is that of the production of safety glass for the automotive industry. the belgian company has suffered a significant decrease in production in the automotive sector, in addition to competition from third countries outside the union, which boast very low labour costs. the company saint-gobain sekurit has lost 250 workers. i voted in favour of the request by belgium, which was welcomed by the european commission and the council's budget committee, to mobilise eur 1 339 928 to support workers who are now unemployed.
in writing. ‒ i thought i would vote in favour of this measure because the european fund established provides support for workers who are being affected by the structural changes in world trade. the fund may not exceed the annual ceiling of eur 150 million (2011 prices). the necessary amounts shall be entered in the general budget of the union as a provision. the procedures which will be used to obtain the reversal of the financing seem to me to be good and efficient, and the dialogue between the commission and the authorities guarantees the success of the procedural agreement, as in the case of saint-gobain sekurit benelux, which operates in the glass sector and has seen a considerable drop in sales in recent years due to the sharp decline in the production of passenger cars in europe. there has also been a general trend by automotive manufacturers and suppliers to move production within the eu from western europe (particularly france, belgium and spain) to eastern europe. i consider the intervention of the european fund to be a positive and decisive step towards supporting and defending individual european workers in the integration fund.
in writing. ‒ in this case, the european globalisation adjustment fund seeks to help 257 workers who have become trapped in the mechanisms of global trade. i can only be human and show solidarity and, having examined the papers and verified compliance with the rules, vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the egf in respect of the application from belgium for the re-employment of workers made redundant by sgs benelux, a company active in the manufacture of safety glass. the reduction in automobile production in the european union, due to the general contraction in consumption following the crisis, has significantly damaged the companies supplying mechanical parts and bodywork in which sgs benelux also operates. in addition, there has been an increase in imports of safety glass from non-european countries which can produce it at lower prices and the relocation of production facilities within the eu to eastern european countries. following losses between 2007 and 2012, the company decided to reduce production at the belgian plant, causing a significant number of redundancies in an area where structural unemployment is already very high, thus aggravating the already difficult socioeconomic situation. the belgian authorities have taken measures to alleviate the discomfort and to encourage the reemployment of the exuberant. the eu will co-finance the provision of services essential to recovery through the mobilisation of the egf, such as personal assistance, training and retraining, promotion of entrepreneurship and granting of subsidies.
in writing. ‒ belgium requested a financial contribution from the egf following the dismissal of 257 employees in connection with the closure of a plant of the sekurit group saint-gobain, which produced safety glass for the automotive industry. the redundancies are linked to the decline in the production of safety glass for motor vehicles in the european union. i welcome the fact that, in order to provide workers with rapid assistance, the belgian authorities decided to start the implementation of personalised services to the workers concerned on 31 august 2013, well before the decision on egf support. i am concerned about the length of the procedure, but i urge the member states, and especially italy, to make the necessary efforts to improve the procedural and budgetary arrangements in order to speed up the mobilisation of the egf. it was noted that the automotive safety glass sector has suffered from severe economic disruption due to the decrease in the union production of automotive safety glass, the increase in market shares of competitors from third countries and the increase in imports of these products into the union. i agree that the application for a financial contribution from the egf submitted by belgium is eligible for a financial contribution under the egf regulation.
in writing. ‒ the automotive safety glass sector has been severely disrupted by several factors: the decrease in the production of safety glass for the automotive industry in the european union, the increase in the market shares of competitors from third countries and the increase in imports of these products into the eu. sgs benelux, a company active in the manufacture of safety glass, was also severely affected by the economic crisis and was forced to lay off 257 workers. i supported the proposal to mobilise the egf because it proposes the reintegration into the labour market of redundant workers in sgs benelux who have lost their jobs as a result of the major changes in world trade due to globalisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide additional support for belgian workers at saint-gobain sekurit who have suffered the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the granting of the fund of € 1 339 928 (50% of the total) for the 257 redundancies in the production of safety glass for the automotive industry due to the closure of the auvelais plant in belgium.
in writing. by unlocking the european globalisation adjustment fund, the european union is giving a concrete signal of support to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade, thus facilitating their reintegration into the labour market. i therefore welcome the approval of the report on the case of the reorganisation of saint gobain sekurit. in this as in many other cases, europe is only intervening to cover the decline in competitiveness and to provide firms and workers with new tools for the reconversion of skills and vocational skills. these are decisive instruments: the hope is that the efforts to re-energize production that the eu has undertaken with the new juncker plan will gradually make eu businesses finally stronger in the global market, thus reversing the decline that part of our industrial sector has suffered in recent years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision to mobilise a contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund of eur 1 339 928 in respect of the losses of saint-gobain sekurit benelux sa. the closure of the sgs auvelais plant resulted in the redundancy of 257 workers, mostly on the production line as manual labourers, who were difficult to relocate to a region with high unemployment and a large supply of similar occupational profiles. the company is paying for the contraction in demand for safety glass for the automotive industry, due to the decline in passenger car production (1.4 million units lost in 5 years), the increase in imports and the transfer of major production to member states with lower costs. workers are once again paying the price of the crisis in the glass industry in europe. the egf financing of personalised services for job search, vocational retraining and training and support for entrepreneurship is important and necessary but not sufficient. the eu must go further and tackle the problems of the european glass industry in a holistic way, with a clear and effective strategy for the revival of this sector in all member states.
in writing. today we have given a big signal of solidarity and concreteness to thousands of european workers in difficulty because of the crisis, through a package of calls for mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund. the one by mr liadh ní riada, in particular, concerns the reintegration into the labour market of 257 redundant workers at the saint-gobain sekurit production plant in belgium. once again, the european parliament is allocating resources to help workers and businesses in difficulty because of the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is one of the most effective instruments and one that is taken into account by citizens: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the egf should, therefore, be mobilised in order to provide a financial contribution for the application submitted by belgium, following the 257 redundancies linked to the closure of a plant of the saint-gobain sekurit (sgs) group, located in auvelais, which produced safety glass for the automotive industry.
in writing. ‒ on 21 january 2015, the european commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in belgium to support the reintegration into employment of 257 redundant workers at saint-gobain sekurit. the riada report gives reasons why such financing is desirable. the european union must act to stem the damage caused to the economic and productive system by the phenomenon of globalisation. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the document.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for belgium to support the reintegration into the labour market of saint-gobain sekurit workers who have been made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade. the automotive safety glass sector has indeed suffered a serious economic disruption due to several factors, such as the decrease in the production of automotive safety glass in the eu, the increase in the market shares of third country competitors and the increase in imports of these products into the union. moreover, the socioeconomic situation of the region concerned and its neighbouring areas (charleroi, namur) is characterised by a relatively high level of structural unemployment, with a relatively high proportion of long-term unemployed and low levels of qualifications and skills. the package of european aid adopted today will help the 257 redundant workers to re-enter the labour market by providing personalised assistance in finding a job, training and retraining them and promoting entrepreneurship in the area concerned.
in writing. ‒ the report in question relates to the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for a total amount of eur 1 339 928 for belgium. the application concerns 257 redundancies linked to the closure of a plant of the saint-gobain sekurit (sgs) group, located in auvelais, which produced safety glass for the automotive industry. in the light of the above, i have agreed to the ni riada report because i believe that workers, who are victims of the economic and financial crisis and of the market imbalances caused by the advance of globalisation, should have the full support of the european union.
in writing. ‒ whereas the union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade, which are being greatly aggravated by the economic, financial and social crisis, and to help them reintegrate into the labour market; whereas union financial support to redundant workers should be adequate and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible, in accordance with the joint statement of the european parliament, the council and the commission; whereas this is the last application to be dealt with under the 2006 regulation. the commission recalled that the union industry was not able to fully benefit from the measures in force on 31 december 2013 and that the measures were not in force until 31 december 2013 and were due to the decrease in production of safety glass for the automotive industry in the eu. i therefore voted in favour of the request, since it falls within the category of exceptional circumstances which allow the egf to be mobilised.
in writing. ‒ again, the mobilisation of the egf is in favour of belgium to facilitate the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant at the saint-gobain sekurit plant as a result of the crisis affecting the automotive safety glass manufacturing sector, which is particularly affected by a significant decline in production in the eu, the increase in market shares of competitors from third countries and the increase in imports of these products into the eu. the number of redundant workers benefiting from egf measures is 257 and i find that the services put in place, such as personalised assistance in job search, case management and general information services, training and retraining, promotion of entrepreneurship, can definitely help them to re-enter the labour market.
in writing. i voted in favour because i believe it is essential to protect workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of 257 workers made redundant by globalisation at saint-gobain sekurit, a factory in auvelais in the province of namur which produces safety glass for the automotive industry. saint-gobain sekurit had to close the auvelais site due to the increase in imports of safety glass and the corresponding decrease in demand for its products on the eu market. the eur 1 339 928 aid from the globalisation adjustment fund, in addition to the funds already provided by the walloon region, will help to cover part of the costs of assistance and support in job search, vocational training, support for business creation and other programmes aimed at re-entering the labour market for 257 beneficiary workers.
in writing. i voted in favour of mobilising the egf for belgium to provide support for workers made redundant following the closure of a saint-gobain sekurit plant producing safety glass for the automotive industry, a sector affected by the changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation and the global economic and financial crisis. the financial contribution, amounting to over eur 1 million, is intended to facilitate the reintegration of 257 unemployed persons into other occupations, possibly in other sectors, in a region which has long suffered from high unemployment. i believe that the egf is an absolutely necessary instrument for managing the unemployment emergency, but i would nevertheless like to stress that the management of the crisis should include economic measures of a broader scope and a longer term.
i voted for this report on equality between women and men. i think this is an important political issue, and if the european parliament is seen as a defender of human rights, then the issue of gender equality is also part of that issue. the most debated was paragraph 45, which deals with a woman's right to decide about her sexual and reproductive health and the possibility of an abortion. i supported the ecr's proposal, which stated that these were matters which, according to the principle of subsidiarity, should be regulated by national law. this motion was not passed, but i voted to keep paragraph 45 in the resolution because i believe that women's right to sexual and reproductive health is very important, as is the issue of contraception. the issue of abortion is a very sensitive one and needs to be regulated in national law and clear rules should be established as to when it can be used.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr tarabella and i have of course voted in favour of his report because of its richness. it is rich because there are so many issues to be addressed, so many barriers to be broken down in order to achieve true equality between men and women. there's not too much ideology, it's real life: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of women in the european union. no one asks for services for women, there is no system of care for all those categories of women who are cared for as mothers, wives, daughters, sisters. there are no services for children, for the elderly, for people who need special care. so if we really want to do something for women, we have to remember to invest in welfare, in efficient welfare, paid for by the state, so everyone, not just women. we cannot think only of flexibility and growth, because above and beyond these are people and their rights, first and foremost those of women, so that they can carry out their profession without giving up and without regrets and so that society is tailored to women.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i appreciated and therefore shared the cultural content of mr tarabella's report. but the debate is still dominated by an ideological approach. the level of civilization is measured by the demand for rights, but above all by the decline of these rights in favour of the most vulnerable people and, of course, women. the heart of our debate must be political, capable of overcoming any form of fundamentalism in a secular view of the issues in question. let us therefore strive to turn our policies in favour of civil and human rights, and to free women's lives. we recognize their right to live their sexuality without prejudice, even when they are faced with the choice of giving up a pregnancy and when they ask to be able to enforce the right to a denied motherhood. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the introduction of a new type of carcinogen.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with my own values, i abstained on mr tarabella's resolution on equality between women and men in the european union in 2013. although it contains many positive points which are entirely acceptable, the text contains a forcing on the so-called right to abortion at european level, which has turned yesterday's debate and today's vote into a little bit of a discussion of the tragedy of the possible voluntary termination of pregnancy. it 's a shame . the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union, in particular by means of the negotiating directives. without this pressure, we would all be here today only to highlight the many positive aspects of the resolution which i do not list because of lack of time. i repeat that for these reasons i voted against the resolution.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that today's vote was an important one. my vote was clearly in favour of the tarabella resolution, which partly corrects the bad image of parliament of some time ago, the rejection of the estrela resolution. i believe that the issue today is to put women's self-determination and freedom back at the centre of our debate and of our european project, and i believe that marc tarabella's text helps to make it clear and to make it clear, as my generation of women knows, that austerity is a violent attack on our ability to self-determination, that we do not want laws on women's bodies but a system of welfare and rights that makes it possible for us to choose and to self-determinate. that's why it's important to talk about the pay gap, the precariousness of women's work. it is important to talk about a european observatory against gender-based violence, sexism in the media and above all the right to choose about our bodies and the right to choose in terms of pregnancy and reproductive health.
in writing. ‒ although there are some points in this report which can be shared, i have found many contradictory and unbalanced elements, which is why i did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on equality between women and men in 2013 because i think it is still absolutely necessary to urge the necessity for real equality between women and men in our european society.
in writing. ‒ women and men are part of the same society. they 're two wheels of the same bicycle . if one or the other is not in a condition to turn properly, the bicycle will get us nowhere. so we have to take care of equality. we must work for full gender equality. this is also because, as the oecd report 'closing the gender gap - act now' of december 2012 showed, eu gdp could increase by 12% if there was real equality between women and men in the labour market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is in our interest, but it is also our duty as far as rights are concerned. if europe is to be an example of civilization and progress, it must first of all set a good example by putting its principles and values into practice. it is therefore a priority to pursue the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy: i am thinking, for example, of the 75% female employment rate and a more equal representation in the political and executive bodies of each state. in this context it is easy to imagine how fundamental the role of the european institutions is, whether those in brussels or strasbourg or those in the smallest municipalities of europe.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on progress on equality between women and men in the european union in 2013. equality between women and men is a fundamental right enshrined in the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. however, despite the fact that the european union has already adopted numerous texts to ensure equal opportunities and treatment for men and women and to combat all forms of gender discrimination, insufficient progress has been made and many inequalities between men and women still persist. i hope, therefore, that the report will encourage the eu institutions and the member states to continue to work towards developing policies that take account of gender issues, women's rights and equal opportunities, and to continue to work towards a change in attitudes, with the prohibition of any discrimination which - when not curbed - emphasises (rather than protects) the difficulties and precariousness of disability, maternity, childhood, work and care for older women.
in writing. ‒ equality between men and women should be one of the pillars of any society that calls itself modern. however, for this to be effective, it is absolutely necessary to provide for interventions which take account of the differences between the characteristics and needs of the two sexes. there is no greater discrimination, in so far as it is more hidden, than that which results from treating different situations in the same way. in this sense, one of the major difficulties faced by women concerns the reconciliation of work and private life, for which specific social cushioning measures must be introduced. in addition, sex education and the eradication of stereotypes about the respective roles of men and women in society are fundamental elements for raising awareness among citizens. the same applies to the self-determination of women's bodies, a fundamental and inalienable right that is not always adequately recognized. i am absolutely convinced that i shall vote in favour of the resolution, which deals with all the points raised.
in writing. ‒ the europe 2020 strategy aims to achieve 75% employment rates for women and men; the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. parttime work and fixedterm contracts have also increased. i voted in favour of the report because it highlights the obstacles which still remain, even at the structural level, to the full achievement of equality in the labour market. more generally, however, gender disparities are deep-rooted and i hope that the report voted today will help to stimulate member states to consider in a gender perspective the measures needed to close the gap in all areas.
in writing. ‒ the vote on this report was very controversial. on the one hand, there are those who insist on maintaining conservative positions, and on the other, there are those who take the world as it really is. i have sided with the latter, in the belief that morality should not take precedence over the freedom of human beings to live their lives according to their own aspirations, beliefs and attitudes.
in writing. i voted against this report. equality between men and women is a matter of paramount importance which must be pursued with the utmost responsibility by the national and european authorities. i do not think, however, that it should or can go so far as to mortify certain values which i believe are fundamental to our civil society, such as the family. i also firmly believe that full respect for the principle of subsidiarity is essential in these areas, since these are very sensitive national competences and decisions which can have a major impact on the future of social organisation.
in writing. ‒ the report is balanced, but it expresses innovative positions, which go in the direction of achieving real gender equality. it is not just formal equality but also concrete equality, which guarantees a balanced gender ratio in all areas of daily life, starting with the world of work, where - as the dramatic data of the economic crisis have confirmed - it is women who pay the highest price. the work and professional dimension obviously also has a decisive impact on personal relationships and private life. in this area too, important steps remain to be taken, starting with minimum rights, such as paid paternity leave of at least ten days, or more complex ones, such as the outcome of the maternity leave directive. finally, in the more private sphere, it was crucial, after the defeat suffered in the vote on the estrela report, that it was finally possible to reiterate that the eu must have a role in promoting best practice also in the field of education and sexual and reproductive rights, while respecting the prerogatives of the states. last but not least, it is to be appreciated that women have been recognized as having the right to control their own health, including through "easy access to contraception and abortion".
in writing. - i voted yes. the europe 2020 strategy aims to create a sustainable and inclusive smart economy, and this can only be achieved through policies that deliver true equality between men and women. there is still much to be done to achieve full affirmation of women's rights, including (and especially) in matters of sexual reproduction. i am absolutely against banning abortion. the full assertion of women's health rights (and not only) can only come about through the possibility, in certain cases, of having access to abortion. in this sense, the law in italy has very positive aspects which could inspire european legislation, which is still sometimes too hesitant on this fundamental point.
in writing. the adoption of the tarabella report, despite the inevitable controversy raised by the issues of sexual and reproductive rights, is an indisputable step forward for the protection of women. there is still too much discrimination and prejudice against women. in italy, gender equality is still a pipe dream, but not in europe. that is why i and most of my m5s colleagues have decided to share this proposal, including the definition of sexual and reproductive rights as human rights and the explicit statement that women should be solely responsible for them through easy access to contraception and abortion, as well as to all sexual and reproductive health services. this is not a pro- or anti-abortion report. but it is about equality and the right to decide, which is a fundamental right. at the same time, more and more women are in precarious or parttime jobs and the pay gap is an unacceptable reality in many community countries. to see real change, we need binding measures. men and women are not and will never be equal, but they must have equal rights. this is true gender equality.
in writing. ‒ europe has set itself virtuous goals in the europe 2020 strategy, but some of these will only be achieved if there is real equality between men and women. i am referring, for example, to the 75% employment target which will only be reached in 2038 given that the growth in female employment since 2002 has been only 4%. these figures, among many others, show us that the world of work is still hostile to women, especially when we consider that they represent as much as 60% of european graduates and yet they receive a remuneration that is calculated to reach full equality with that of men only in 2084 (equivalence that would lead to an increase in eu gdp of as much as 12%) with drastic consequences also on their pensions, which we know to be 39% lower than those of men. this is all just talking about the world of work, but there are many other areas where we can see a serious gender gap. i therefore vote in favour of this text because it seems to highlight the importance of achieving real equality between men and women for the growth of europe, including economic growth.
in writing. the adoption of the tarabella report on gender equality in the eu, despite the inevitable controversy surrounding sexual and reproductive rights, is a clear step forward in the protection of women. i regret to say that there is still too much discrimination and prejudice against women. in order to combat the imbalance in the relationship between men and women, it is necessary to stress that the right to equality between the sexes requires the recognition of certain priority demands, which are reflected in this report: - the right to equal treatment in employment, including the elimination of obstacles to women's participation in decision-making processes; - the right to reconcile professional and private life by granting parental leave to both parents; - effective and effective action to combat violence against women, by imposing severe penalties and by promoting training and information for citizens on these issues; - giving women control over their own sexual and reproductive health and rights, while reiterating the primacy of the member states in the formulation of policies in this field. these are the main reasons why i am voting in favour of mr tarabella's report.
in writing. ‒ this is another missed opportunity for parliament and the rapporteur. it has turned an important issue like equality between men and women into a manifest relationship that includes absolutely unnecessary and politicized things.
in writing. ‒ today i was forced to vote against a text, the tarabella report, which contained many positive elements. the overall quality of the text on equality between men and women has been corrupted by the inclusion of paragraphs that have nothing to do with the subject under discussion or with the eu's powers. the final text is contradictory: the european parliament, with its amendment, is rightly stating what is written in the treaties (and has already been repeatedly stated by the commission and parliament) that the competence in the field of abortion is solely and exclusively national, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, and is also attempting to introduce a so-called 'right to abortion'.
in writing. i wish to express my vote in favour of and support for the adoption of the report on equality between men and women in the european union presented by mr tarabella: the commission has also adopted a 360-degree programme of strong support for the equivalency of personal, social and occupational rights, which enshrines and reinforces what has already been ratified in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and which protects more closely certain aspects of the treatment of women, which are unfortunately still not sufficiently acquired or guaranteed. even today, one third of elderly women in our countries are not entitled to a pension, and those who do are on average awarded 39% less than men. the same disproportion for women in terms of the percentage of university graduates: 60% compared to the mere 33% we find in managerial roles and yet with about 16% less pay than male colleagues. unfortunately, stereotypes and discrimination are still dangerously persistent in our society: but these are the sad, last vestiges of the undignified and wrong mechanisms that we can no longer tolerate. europe, as the guardian of human rights, will use all means at its disposal to support the promotion of women's participation in the labour market by ensuring equal opportunities and treatment with effective compliance with directive 2006/54/ec which is still not applied in 26 countries. a 2012 oecd study reveals that eu gdp could grow by 12% with equal participation of women in the workforce: this means that an inclusive, open, equal and integrated market would mean growth for all of us and the fight against social exclusion. europe should strengthen its social and fiscal policies to protect the vulnerable elderly women, single mothers, victims of abuse, women workers who have difficult access to basic services or whose right to maternity is not recognised and who too often face precariousness, unemployment or the sad choice between motherhood and the possibility of continuing to live in dignity. europe is truly the home of human dignity and equality.
in writing. ‒ the vote on this report marks a major step forward on gender equality. with this resolution, the european parliament is tackling the issue of equality between men and women with strength, determination, comprehensiveness and without hypocrisy. a great achievement for all of us, because despite all the progress made over the years to close gender inequalities, much remains to be done. it is not acceptable that today, in 2015, in the european union, on equal terms, the pay gap between men and women is 16.4% and that this is a mirage that can only be achieved in 2084. we must start with education, with schools, where action is essential if we are to bring about a real cultural change in society, especially in terms of preventing violence against women. this is why european legislative action is important to encourage and support member states' action in preventing, prosecuting perpetrators and protecting victims, while introducing sanctions for discriminatory and violent behaviour against women. with this measure, this house has set a clear path for the union and its member states.
in writing. ‒ although much progress has been made in gender equality since the beijing declaration on women's rights was signed in 1995, improvements remain insufficient and many inequalities between women and men still persist. equal opportunities in professional careers, reduction of the wage and pension gap, and the proportion of women on boards of directors are the basis for closing the gender gap and achieving equal treatment between women and men. real equality between women and men is undoubtedly a prerequisite for the return to growth. for these reasons i voted in favour of mr tarabella's report.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the report signed by mr tarabella, as i believe that it addresses the issue of gender equality in an appropriate and balanced way. despite the efforts of many, the reluctance of many is hindering any real progress towards equality between men and women in europe, in terms of social, employment and economic inclusion. the rise in the female employment rate, the increase in femicide, as well as the persistent gender pay and social security gap, justify the need to propose measures aimed at breaking down the backlog that still persists in gender equality. the tarabella report proposes practical measures which are necessary to ensure that european women play a leading role. the brief references to the health sector, exploited by some for ideological purposes, do not in any way undermine the quality of a proactive and cross-cuttingly shareable text.
in writing. ‒ i am voting for this report because i believe it is an important tool that the european institutions can use to advance gender equality in the union. a modern and comprehensive report, taking account of all the many facets of the situation of women: from the need for a rebalancing of the distribution of domestic work to the call for progress in so-called "gender medicine", ensuring equal representation of men and women in clinical trials. the report as a whole shows that a society as developed as the european one should have already made the transition from 'gender policies' to the integration of the gender perspective in all public policies. in particular, it is crucial to stress the point of education: and from this comes all the tools that we give our girls, or deprive them of. in today's society, this means above all encouraging the acquisition of scientific and technological skills and digital skills. from this investment today, we can reap the rewards of a generation of independent women tomorrow, able to create and develop their own entrepreneurial idea and to change the current situation in a concrete way by becoming its protagonists.
in writing. ‒ equality between men and women is a fundamental right, a common value of the european union and a necessary condition for achieving the european objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the union has made considerable progress towards gender equality through legislation, but this is still not enough. in the light of the above, i have decided to vote in favour of mr tarabella's report, as it describes in detail the situation of equality between women and men in the eu in 51 points and highlights how far from being achieved equality, the objective and value of the union as enshrined in the treaties, is in the field of employment, wage and pension gaps, top positions and the full enjoyment of sexual and reproductive rights.
in writing. ‒ whereas equality between women and men is a fundamental right enshrined in the treaties since the treaty of rome of 1957 and in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, but whereas progress in the field of gender equality remains insufficient and many inequalities between men and women still persist; whereas more women than men live in conditions of poverty and exclusion; the commission has also proposed that the member states should take measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations on the social dialogue. whereas the female unemployment rate is underestimated, as many women are not on the lists of those seeking employment; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not able to take account of the social dimension of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ according to a 2012 oecd study, eu gdp could increase by 12% if there was real equality between women and men in the labour market. genuine equality in working life is therefore the precondition for a return to growth after a period of austerity, revitalising europe to become a truly smart, sustainable and inclusive economy. we must work towards equal pay for men and women, the pay gap is still too wide and it is also affecting women's future pensions. the dismantling of the stereotypes which still undermine women's desire to achieve a certain position or to perform a certain job must be our primary commitment, also through the promotion of the role of fathers in family life. we must also review the conditions of mothers and maternity policies which still refer to a 1992 directive and continue to fight against violence against women. the question of sexual and reproductive rights must be taken seriously by all member states, since it is a question of respecting the fundamental right of women to self-determination and to free choice over their own bodies.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, i had to vote against the tarabella report on progress on equality between women and men, despite the fact that it contained many parts that i share. such as combating violence against women, improving the quality of women's employment and reducing precariousness, and implementing the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment between women and men in matters of equality and employment. at the same time, it is important to have a level playing field in pensions, to put in place corrective mechanisms, to reform tax policies and compensation provisions. my vote against is due to the inclusion in the report of paragraphs which distort its aims and are not relevant to it, such as the so-called right to abortion, which i am strongly opposed to. i would also remind you that the question of abortion is a matter for the sole and exclusive national competence of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against mr tarabella's report because i believe that the jewish-christian roots of the european people must always be recognised and defended. i believe that this document is not only pro-abortion, but above all that it is aimed at demolishing the pillar of our society which is the natural family.
in writing. i voted against because the text appears to be vague and far from the real needs of citizens.
in writing. ‒ the day after 8 march, international women's day, i voted in favour of the annual report on equality between women and men in the eu, drawn up by my colleague marc tarabella. the call for a more equal society reflects the value of the event for women's rights, but also the commitment of the whole community to equality. the resolution addresses issues of importance to european politics and society, such as the need to reduce the pay gap between women and men, the implementation of proactive policies to promote female employment (promotion of female entrepreneurship, reintegration into the world of work) and a greater presence in sectors considered 'male', such as science and new technologies, the implementation of fiscal and social policies that take account of changes in family structures, the urgency of relaunching effective policies against female poverty. it also proposes to declare 2016 the 'year against violence against women' and to allocate adequate funds for awareness-raising actions against this social scourge. the vote in favour of the resolution therefore expresses my commitment as a citizen and as a politician to a fight for fairness and justice which concerns the citizens of europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the tarabella report because in its final version it (reaffirms) important principles which are at the basis of the achievement of equality between women and men and in which i firmly believe. some key principles are: (i) the right of women to control their sexual and reproductive health and rights, in particular through easy access to contraception and voluntary termination of pregnancy; (ii) sexual and reproductive rights are fundamental rights and must be the responsibility of the eu and not be subordinated to individual national legislation, with the consequent risk of divergent and fragmented approaches within the eu; (iii) competence in health matters should instead remain with the member states and not the eu (thus avoiding direct interference of eu austerity policies on further cuts to health services); (iv) every woman, including migrant women, must be protected by the state and its institutions against any incident of domestic violence; (v) member states must facilitate the exercise of the paternal right to family and work reconciliation by, inter alia, introducing paid paternity leave of at least 10 days.
in writing. ‒ with this resolution, parliament calls for improved policies to achieve equality between women and men. despite the progress made in recent years towards closing the gender gap, much remains to be done to reduce the pay gap, apply equal opportunities to professional careers, and improve work-life balance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the tarabella report because i think it is essential that the european union pursue the path of equality, combat discrimination in all its forms and manifestations and work towards developing defence strategies and directives that imply full respect for and full self-determination of women's bodies. we also believe, as an alliance of socialists and democrats, that the recovery and development of europe must be achieved through the full recognition of women's rights and the full development of their role in society.
in writing. this report has addressed a number of issues related to the existing gender gap, particularly in the purely economic sphere, the protection of sexual and reproductive rights, including decision-making power on procreation, the autonomous choice of a spouse, the voluntary determination of the number of children, the timing of conception and the interval between births. in this area, access to all the information and tools necessary to exercise an informed choice must be guaranteed, as must the right to privacy and protection from sexual violence and coercion. these protections include the right to abortion, where the case rates are even higher in countries where the procedure is prohibited than in those where it is legal. the report therefore calls on the member states to ensure easy access to contraception and abortion, supporting actions aimed at women's sexual and reproductive health, and a more effective information network. i, together with my colleagues from the five star movement, supported the rapporteur's position, guaranteeing the right of every individual to choose and affirming the popular will of the italians who in two referendums have largely demonstrated their support for a right synonymous with civilization.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this because competitiveness is one of the keys to overcoming the crisis. an effective competition policy will lead to the success of the european union and, consequently, to the well-being of its citizens. the digital single market, energy, finance, industry and transport are all important issues in the coming years. in particular, we must pay close attention to the great opportunity that the digital single market offers us, without neglecting all the related issues that directly impact the lives of european citizens. competition policy must not be the only principle governing the creation and development of the market: i am very much in agreement with the rapporteur when he says that there is a need for coordination of initiatives. but alongside competition there must be employment and growth.
in writing. i voted against the messerschmidt report on eu competition policy, as i consider it to be unbalanced; in particular, in addition to calls for a harmonized european tax policy, which i do not share, there is no concrete reference to the need to promote competition as an effective means of combating unemployment and not to create new ones, as is continuing to happen.
in writing. ‒ in europe, some sectors within the single market are divided by strong national barriers, a fragmentation that translates into higher costs and poorer services for european citizens. effective competition is the sine qua non for stimulating effective investment and ensuring choice and prices for consumers. to achieve this, we need coherent and uniform policies in all areas. among the crucial sectors for the development of the european economic model, i would mention energy and digital: in both cases, effective competition can make a difference in making possible projects already on the table at european level. in the energy sector, by encouraging objectives that ensure sustainability and security of supply and that support a fair and competitive market, including through diversification of sources and the fight against monopolistic practices. in the digital single market, the legal instruments on competition need to be adapted to the requirements of the new 'digital age'. in this resolution, which i support, parliament has expressed its support for swift and effective action by the authorities and regulatory bodies to tackle unfair competition practices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual report on the eu’s competition policy because i think that there is still some improvement needed in the competition policy of the european union which could ameliorate the internal market and create growth.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the annual report on eu competition policy. competition policy is a tool for safeguarding european democracy, since it prevents excessive concentration of economic and financial power in the hands of a few. moreover, competition is crucial for the achievement of the objectives of employment, growth, investment and overall competitiveness of the european economy, as it is sustainable and effective competition that promotes investment and brings benefits to end-users, while also providing a boost to the economy. i therefore hope that the commission and the member states will be able to take appropriate measures on competition, including tax measures, to ensure that european industrial groups and smes enjoy a level playing field in the internal market, which will also help them to meet the challenges of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ the document presented expresses intentions which are shared, but, as is often the case, there is a risk that these intentions will be ignored by the action of the commission and the member states, who are both responsible for the implementation of competition policy. it would therefore be at least necessary, in order to try to put a stop to a policy which all too often actually favours large multinational groups - with resources and expertise of a particularly high level - that the texts adopted by parliament should be very precise in every respect. i do not think that the report under consideration, although of a good standard, meets this requirement and i have therefore abstained in the house.
in writing. ‒ i thought i would vote in favour of the measure, as i have always believed that by promoting a good culture of competition and competition we can get out of the financial crisis we are going through. putting competitiveness first is important for the health and success of the eu and therefore for the benefit of all its citizens. the european parliament must play a central role in this area if the process is to be launched and implemented. i believe that the european union's competition policy has brought many benefits in terms of consumer welfare and has been an essential tool in removing obstacles to the free movement of goods, services, people and capital. i hope that there will be a careful assessment of the current competition policy initiatives and, subsequently, new proposals or changes to the current rules, in order to address the challenges that lie ahead.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i am convinced that the european union's competition policy has brought many benefits in terms of consumer welfare and that it is an essential tool for removing obstacles to the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital. i hope that a careful assessment of the current competition initiatives will be made in order to better address the challenges ahead. finally, i think that we should think more carefully about certain sectors where there seems to be a witch hunt which is not justified by the fundamentals of the market. it is good that we continue to talk about this subject.
in writing. i voted in favour of the annual report on the european union's competition policy because i believe that the prosperity of the european economy can be guaranteed by a fair and consistent competition policy and by a system of competitiveness based on the principles of the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital. i believe that the eu must promote a fair and transparent competition policy to ensure the well-being of consumers and smes.
in writing. ‒ every year, the european parliament submits an own-initiative report analysing competition issues in the eu. the text contains many broadly agreed points, including the need to combat concentrations on the markets, to ensure transparent public procurement and to protect against abuses in the financial sector. the commission has also made specific reference to the competition policies needed in the energy and transport sectors, and there are no controversial points to be made here either. the agri-food and pharmaceutical sections are also interesting and worth supporting, with references to the distorting power of large-scale distribution and the need to support the development of the generic drug system. my abstention is justified by the presence of a paragraph calling for the inclusion of measures regulating competition in the ttip.
in writing. ‒ competition policy is a matter of key importance for the european union because only by promoting a competitive and effective competition culture can we finally emerge from the financial crisis and strengthen the eu's importance worldwide. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that competition policy has brought many benefits in terms of consumer welfare and has been an essential tool for removing obstacles to the free movement of goods, services, people and capital.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the aim is to promote a competitive european union and to seek to improve competition policy constantly. fair and free competition is the best industrial policy. preserving the single market and protecting consumer interests are two of the priorities of the current legislature, i hope.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the econ committee's annual resolution on competition within the union. it is not convincing in its analysis of tax regimes and, moreover, the text contains few references to the needs of smes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a resolution calling on the commission to take all available action to enforce both ex post and ex ante competition rules in order to avoid excessive market concentration and abuse of dominant positions, thereby protecting businesses and citizens.
in writing. i strongly supported mr messerschmidt's report on the eu's annual competition policy report. i think it is important to stress that the economic dimension of the union is enshrined in the treaties as an 'open market economy with free competition' aimed at achieving ambitious objectives in terms of employment, growth, investment and the overall competitiveness of the economy. competition policy must always aim at creating a level playing field that encourages productivity, innovation, job creation and investment, while fully respecting national diversity. i would like to stress one point in particular: the commission should be careful in implementing antitrust and state aid and merger control rules, because it is important to achieve a well-functioning internal market and to ensure social progress. at the same time, it is hoped that the new juncker commission will take appropriate fiscal and competition measures to help european industrial groups and smes cope with globalisation, precisely because competition policy cannot be separated from the general objectives of economic and social recovery.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by mr morten messerschmidt because the objective of the european union is to promote free competition which has a positive impact on consumers, businesses and society as a whole. i believe that competition policy is a key element in the success of the european union, as it encourages entrepreneurship and efficiency, increases consumer choice and helps to lower prices and improve quality.
in writing. the annual report on eu competition policy calls for a swift end to the banking sector aid scheme in crisis-hit countries, citing the fact that state aid to banking systems has not increased credit or restored confidence in euro area countries. in the area of services of general economic interest, it reaffirms the importance of universally accessible services and stresses the commission's responsibility to ensure that the compensation provided for services of general economic interest is compatible with state aid. it also stressed that fairer competition in the form of taxes was essential for the integrity of the internal market and encouraged the commission to apply the state aid control rules carefully.
in writing. ‒ a coherent competition policy and a system of competitiveness based on free market principles are essential to ensure the prosperity of the community economy. my support for the messerschmidt report comes from the conviction that the european union must promote an effective competition policy whose sole objective is to bring benefits to consumers, businesses and the whole of community society.
in writing. ‒ competition policy and competitiveness in general are core values for the success and functioning of the european union as a whole. they have always been an essential instrument for removing obstacles to the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital, thus contributing to the completion of the single market and protecting the interests of european consumers. we support this report because we want to emphasize the important role played by the european parliament in recent years. we reiterate our commitment to the strict and fair application of eu competition and state aid rules; to respect for the principle of subsidiarity and for the decisions of national courts in the field of competition policy; to firmly combat cartels, any dominant or monopolistic position, social dumping in the labour market; to closely cooperate with other authorities in third countries and with international organisations in investigating any suspected illegal use of advantages and tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ the report illustrates how competition policy and competitiveness in general are of fundamental importance to the success of the european union as a whole. free competition is the cornerstone of an open market economy. it boosts european economic performance and offers consumers a wider choice of products and services of better quality at more competitive prices. in the light of the above, i have decided to support this report, because only by developing a competitive culture of competition can we finally get out of the financial crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual report on eu competition policy because i believe that it sets out important procedures that need to be implemented to ensure the smooth functioning of a european single market characterised by healthy competition between the firms operating in it. consumer protection must be our main concern and a more active involvement of the european parliament in the decision-making phases of market policies would ensure greater democratic legitimacy of these policies, as the decision-making processes would gain transparency and participation. in particular, a proper market policy must address concrete problems such as social dumping or the misuse of the structural funds. european consumers have an imperative right to free access to all goods produced in the union at the best possible price. the current financial crisis facing europe cannot in any case be used as a pretext for disregarding precise and indispensable rules which limit the power of large multinationals and guarantee social inclusion and equal rights. only through dynamism, innovation and sustainability can economic growth be stimulated and the degree of competitiveness of our market be able to withstand global comparison.
in writing. ‒ whereas certain areas within the single market are still divided by national borders and artificial barriers, and whereas at the same time alarming practices such as social dumping or the misuse of structural funds should be addressed in the context of the european union's competition policy. whereas competition policy is itself an instrument for safeguarding european democracy; whereas a competition policy based on a level playing field in all sectors is the foundation of the european social market economy and an essential tool for ensuring the proper functioning of a dynamic, efficient, sustainable and innovative internal market, and whereas the economic and financial crisis should therefore not be used as a pretext for relaxing the application of competition rules; i would therefore vote in favour of the proposal, given that tax evasion, tax fraud and tax havens cost eu taxpayers an estimated eur 1 trillion a year in lost tax revenue.
in writing. ‒ i am a strong believer that a good competition and competitiveness policy is fundamental for any organisation and that, as a result, the promotion of a competitive culture can seriously help the european union to consolidate and strengthen its position and presence in the world. it is important that competitiveness is highlighted in the political agenda of the european parliament and that an eu competition policy is developed, always in compliance with the treaties. the european union's competition policy has already been shown in the past to have brought numerous benefits in terms of consumer welfare and to have removed the various obstacles to the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital. competition policy must remain a key instrument for protecting the single market and consumer interests. in addition, new competition policy initiatives must be continually assessed to be ready to face the challenges of an increasingly globalised market.
in writing. ‒ the analysis of the european union's competition policy leads to appreciations in terms of consumer welfare but, at the same time, calls for updating the policies themselves in order to be more in tune with reality, and thus to be able to face the new challenges that are emerging in europe and the world. a european single market with a genuine free movement of goods, people and services is a fundamental pillar of the european union, and will bring ever-greater benefits to consumers and enable businesses to better respond to global challenges.
in writing. i voted against because the text, while touching on issues which are shared, is not convincing in several respects, starting with the vagueness of the objectives inherent in the question of the different tax regimes.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the annual report on eu competition policy, which aims to assess the progress made at european level in implementing policies that encourage free economic competition and the opening up of national markets. the draft law highlights possible critical issues and further steps to be taken to encourage an 'open market economy with free competition'. these include the need to avoid state aid (even implicit aid such as in the case of football clubs), the harmonisation of the rules on cartels and mergers, and the need for the european commission to carry out investigations in this field quickly and with firm penalties. in this sense, among the most debated passages of this dossier are those relating to cases of greater public visibility, such as the commission's investigation into google, which is explicitly mentioned in the text. among other themes, interesting references to the 'sharing economy' are highlighted, whose strong rise raises concerns about possible distortion of competition. i welcome the analysis in this report and believe it is a good starting point for further progress on this subject.
in writing. ‒ today's vote underlines that competition policy and competitiveness in general are of paramount importance for the health and success of the european union as a whole and therefore its citizens. it is by promoting a competitive culture of competition that we can finally emerge from the financial crisis, consolidating and strengthening the importance of the european union worldwide.
in writing. the european parliament has presented an own-initiative report analysing competition issues in the european union. the text contains many points which are broadly shared by the m5s, including the need to combat concentrations on markets, ensure transparent public procurement, and protect against abuses in the financial sector. the commission also makes specific reference to the competition policies needed in the energy and transport sectors. the agri-food and pharmaceutical sections are also interesting and worth supporting, with references to the distorting power of large-scale distribution and the need to support the development of the generic drug system. but that's still not enough. i believe that much can still be done to improve competition at eu level. further efforts are still needed to create the conditions for effective equality of competitive positions between european countries and to combat both fiscal and social dumping. progress still needs to be made in the area of taxation, particularly to prohibit tax planning and aggressive tax strategies that create distortions between member states. the secret tax arrangements to shift financial flows by paying minimal taxes, such as the most recent luxleaks case, must be strongly denounced.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution on the annual report on competition policy in the european union. i am particularly pleased to see that a paragraph has been included on social dumping, which is an annual issue that must be tackled to ensure the proper functioning of the labour market. i would like to conclude by stressing the need to close the democratic deficit in the union in competition policy by granting the european parliament as soon as possible the power to take joint decisions in these matters.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this report clearly illustrates the aspects which have characterized the work and actions of the central bank in recent years. the unconventional monetary policy measures it has used are welcome. i believe that the ecb's priorities must include objectives such as growth and employment, in addition to price stability. of course, all of this is not enough: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment. the publication of the minutes of the governing council meeting is also a positive sign: at a time when citizens look at the institutions with suspicion, if not with disgust, it was necessary to send a strong signal of transparency.
in writing. ‒ i did not intend to support the report on the european central bank's annual report for 2013 with my vote. after years of denial, this report finally acknowledges some of the problems caused by the euro. but instead of drawing the necessary conclusions and proposing a revision of this wrong currency, the rapporteur proposes solutions under the banner of 'more europe', leaving unheard the voice of 5 million young people who are out of work, families who are not making ends meet and businesses in crisis. the problem is economic and monetary union itself and i will continue to fight against it for our citizens and our territories.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european central bank annual report 2013 because i think that this is important to underline the necessity of continuing a policy which is supporting the european economy and consequently the growth in europe, as it has been doing in 2013.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the 2013 annual report of the european central bank. the fragmentation of financial markets remains a key problem holding back the development of the economy and smes. the cost to the real economy of these imbalances is no longer sustainable, as are the distortions of the single market. with specific reference to financial stability, i welcome the new phase that has opened with the full operation of the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) entrusted to the ecb since november 2014. on monetary policy, i can only agree with the ecb's reactive impulse in the face of the critical situation. i also note with satisfaction that the ecb is proceeding with the purchase of asset-backed securities (abs) and covered bonds to support the credit easing effect of the lmtos, stressing that this is important in creating the conditions for a recovery in investment and the real economy.
in writing. ‒ to develop a truly effective monetary policy, a complete restructuring of the banking system, separating credit from finance, would be necessary in order to return the system to its true function, that of guaranteeing credit to the real economy. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget. its deflation-fighting measures are not sufficient in a context of austerity, however, where fiscal constraints and financial stability continue to outweigh the real needs of the real economy and citizens. the quantitative easing recently promoted by the ecb is certainly not a sufficient measure in this respect and my vote on the annual report is therefore negative.
in writing. ‒ i thought i would vote in favour of the measure, although i do not deny concerns about the continuing fall in the inflation rate since 2011 and the different inflation rates across all member states. monetary policy aimed at reducing tensions in the various financial markets seeks to restore confidence among the various investors in the single currency. i was optimistic about the ecb's reaction to such a critical situation. the overall positive reduction in long-term national yields in the more indebted countries suggests a more dynamic economic recovery. the ecb's positive vision and actions in a situation of both low economic growth and continuing inflation should be taken into account and motivated to continue.
in writing. ‒ while not denying my concern about the continuing decline in the euro area inflation rate since 2011 and the differences in inflation rates between member states, i welcomed the ecb's swift reaction in the face of a highly critical environment such as the current one, and the fact that monetary policy has been geared to reducing the level of stress in the euro area financial markets and restoring investor confidence in the single currency. i am confident about the future economic recovery thanks to the general reduction in long-term national yields, particularly in the most indebted countries of the euro area, which have fallen to unprecedented levels since the beginning of the crisis. i therefore voted in favour of the european central bank's annual report for 2013, especially in the hope that the quantitative easing programme which has been in place in recent weeks will bear the fruit it hopes for.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the 2013 annual report of the european central bank as it provides a comprehensive overview of monetary policy actions aimed at attempting to reduce the level of stress in financial markets and to try to regain investor confidence. the fragmentation of financial markets and the high level of unemployment remain a key problem to be addressed by consolidating good governance. i believe it is of the utmost importance to create a revival of public and private investment, to encourage the injection of liquidity into the system and to promote a fiscal union to have lower taxes and a more competitive market. all eu member states must commit to implementing appropriate structural reforms to restore a growth-friendly environment, safeguard price stability, promote sustainable social and economic progress and full employment, improve inclusion and optimise business conditions.
in writing. ‒ each year, the european parliament, in an own-initiative report, gives an assessment of the ecb's monetary policy. the report, which covers the ecb's 2013 annual report, also introduces a section on financial stability, in light of the ecb's new single supervisory function, which was introduced last november. the text contains numerous appreciations of the ecb's unconventional monetary policy interventions, and in particular the ltro programmes, the securitised asset purchase plan and the recent quantitative easing programme, as well as continuous references to the need to continue on the path of structural reforms and fiscal consolidation. in the econ committee, m5s voted against the report because it considered it unbalanced in highlighting only the positive side of the work of the ecb and the current system of economic governance. i find the total absence of critical reflection on the management of the eurozone crisis and an objective analysis of the negligible impact of monetary policy interventions on the real economy unacceptable. for the reasons stated above, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the annual report of the european central bank is an important opportunity for reflection on economic and monetary policy within the european institutions. as regards monetary policy in 2013, the lowering of the reference rate and the start of unconventional monetary policies failed to boost growth in the continent. these measures have not led to the expected increase in credit to households and businesses, also due to austerity policies. today, we have the opportunity to learn from this lesson, and we can overcome this pattern, through a new european policy that looks at growth. to achieve this, the european institutions must be more committed to promoting long-term investment in a social and environmental dimension. i therefore consider the report to be a balanced text, emphasizing the social dimension of the economy and the need for greater growth in europe.
in writing. ‒ i express my negative vote on this report on the activities of the european central bank, noting with regret the lack of any critical reflection on the current economic crisis and therefore on the man responsible for the mismanagement of the ecb. we know that even unconventional measures such as quantitative easing run the serious risk of favouring not the thousands of european micro-enterprises and therefore the real economy but rather the usual speculative finance lobbies. i therefore believe that without a serious fight against speculation and without the intention of achieving fiscal harmonization, but instead pushing ever more towards austerity policies, the goal of getting out of the crisis is very far away and the ecb's actions can only reveal it as the executioner of millions of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report which identifies only because some problems are enormous and almost irreversible, but they always depend on the same macro problem, which, however, we do not want to address here: the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, the economic data cannot be welcomed, as euro area gdp fell by 0.4% in 2013 and unemployment in the euro area increased from 11.3% at the end of 2012 to 11.9% at the end of 2013. however, in assessing the ecb's actions, we cannot help but note that, after a past in which we waited too long to make bold choices, today, thanks to the use of innovative instruments and the announced quantitative easing plan, the data are changing and could constitute the first signs of a recovery that has been awaited for years. the report we are presenting today also aims to highlight two points in particular: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european central bank (ecb) is based on the principle of the european central bank (ecb) and the european central bank (ecb) as the two main institutions of the european union.
in writing. i wish to express my vote in favour of the report on the ecb's annual report which has been forwarded to us by my colleagues in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i would like to stress one important point in the report which has just been adopted: consolidating good governance in banks fosters confidence in the banking sector and thus also contributes to financial stability. it is important to remember this, because in recent years europe, with the launch of the banking union and the action of the ecb, has initiated a silent but valuable action to consolidate the foundations of our economy, which we hope will soon be tangibly felt by citizens, consumers and businesses. we need political will now: the juncker investment plan represents a great opportunity to make this path of new banking governance complementary to a new productive and social revival.
in writing. i supported the report by mr pablo zalba bidegain because i share the assessment of the measures and initiatives set out in the european central bank's annual report. in fact, i recall that in 2013 the ecb operated in a rather critical economic scenario, characterised by low growth and inflation. in this context, the ecb has done a good job of implementing monetary and fiscal policies in the direction of the eu's recovery and economic growth.
in writing. in a crisis of this kind, despite high levels of unemployment, negative or zero gdp growth, and very low inflation with deflationary risks, the ecb's monetary policy has nevertheless succeeded in restoring a minimum of confidence in financial markets and investors in the euro area. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a good one, but it is also a good one. the report, for which i voted in favour, therefore welcomes the ecb's actions in a situation of low growth and low inflation, but warns against remaining vigilant about these policies.
in writing. ‒ in a rather critical economic environment, characterised by slow growth and persistent inflation, the ecb has been a promoter of monetary and fiscal policies and structural reforms. i agree with all of these measures and have decided to give my consent to the report on the annual report of the central bank. i believe that in 2013, the european institution under draghi's leadership has effectively fulfilled its prerogatives and its mission.
in writing. ‒ by adopting this annual report, we want to underline the importance of the ecb's rapid reaction in the face of an increasingly unstable and fragmented economic and financial environment. while we believe that it is essential to use this new monetary policy stance to reduce the level of tension in the euro area financial markets and to restore investor confidence in the single currency, we believe that the expansionary approach alone is not enough to resolve the situation. the right mix of fiscal consolidation policies, appropriate structural reforms and stimulation of new private investment will be essential. we also believe that, in view of the prospect of further accommodative policies such as quantitative easing, and bearing in mind the current legal challenges related to the omt programme, it is essential to ensure clarity and legal certainty in order for these instruments to be implemented effectively. finally, we urge the member states to create the conditions for a recovery in both public and private investment by implementing appropriate structural reforms to restore a business-friendly environment.
in writing. ‒ the european central bank submits an annual report each year containing the activities of the european system of central banks and monetary policy, both for the year under review and for the current year. the report reveals that despite the crisis, high unemployment and zero gdp growth, the ecb's monetary policy has succeeded in restoring confidence in financial markets and investors in the euro area. the report welcomes the actions taken by the ecb, but urges the ecb to remain vigilant about such policies. unconventional monetary policy measures are a necessary but not sufficient condition for dealing with the macroeconomic problems we are facing. in the light of the foregoing, i have decided to support mr bidegain's report, since i fully agree with its substance. i believe that monetary policy measures must be placed in a wider context, in an appropriate policy mix focused on investment policies, structural reforms and the ability to create fiscal consolidation that is not pro-cyclical but is actually a growth ally.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of parliament's resolution on the 2013 annual report of the european central bank. despite the joint commitment of member states to a fiscal consolidation policy, the eu economies have shown only weak signs of recovery. the data summarise a reality of unemployment, particularly for young people, difficult access to credit for small and medium-sized enterprises, low levels of investment and low gdp growth. in the face of this critical environment, the ecb has reacted swiftly, not only through a monetary policy aimed at reducing the level of stress in financial markets and restoring investor confidence, but also by implementing innovative instruments to restart the economies of the member states, such as the recent quantitative easing operation. these measures - which are separate from the ecb's original mandate - are the most tangible sign of europe's commitment to its members. it is essential that the european central bank's action is accompanied by appropriate reforms and structural policies at the national level, in order to maximise the scope of intervention and achieve a significant impact on the real economy of the member states.
in writing. ‒ whereas according to the commission services' spring 2014 forecast, euro area gdp should have recovered and the commission services' autumn 2014 forecast revised downwards the growth projections; whereas according to the autumn 2014 forecast, unemployment in the euro area would remain high in 2014; whereas there are significant differences between the unemployment rates of the various member states and this leads to increasing economic divergences between the member states; whereas the reduction in passive interest rates resulting from the announcement of the programme of monetary operations should not be used as a pretext for member states to avoid structural reforms aimed at increasing growth potential; whereas in 2013 the european central bank (ecb) lowered its key interest rates twice; whereas the lowering of real interest rates has not translated into an increase in credit to households and businesses, nor in gdp growth and job creation; i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the ecb has always reacted swiftly and effectively to market shocks, that its monetary policy has been effectively geared to reducing the volatility of the euro area financial markets and that it has successfully implemented all the necessary measures to safeguard the stability of our currency. in order to try to stimulate the eu economy, which to my regret remains sluggish with very weak gdp growth and high unemployment rates with the risk that the continuing fall in the inflation rate could lead to deflation, the conditions must be created for a recovery in public and private investment in the euro area, despite the action of the ecb which has tried to propose favourable financing conditions. i also believe that the flexibility in the rules of the stability and growth pact can be used to boost the recovery and to raise the funds needed to pay for the costs of structural reforms.
in writing. ‒ the report welcomes the ecb's actions, stressing the importance of having the right mix of monetary, fiscal and structural reforms is at the heart of the report. europe is slowly emerging from the crisis but it is still too early to lower the level of attention.
in writing. i have chosen to vote against because the report, while identifying several problems of the euro which have become so obvious that they can no longer be concealed, continues along the lines of 'austerity and reforms to save the euro at all costs' and therefore proposes palliative solutions which are in fact part of the problem itself.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 annual report of the european central bank, in the preparation of which i had the opportunity to participate directly as shadow rapporteur for the s&d group, is the instrument through which the ecb's accountability to the european parliament is made explicit. the european central bank, which is independent by its very nature, is subject, by virtue of its statute, to a constant dialogue with the european parliament, which assesses its actions. in recent months, the european central bank has taken on a central role in countering the serious effects of the severe economic and financial crisis in europe. the numerous measures taken, some of which were considered "unconventional" for a central bank, although they did not lead to the desired recovery, prevented the collapse of the continental banking system and helped to create a climate of confidence in international markets, with the resulting lowering of the financing costs for the peripheral euro area states. the report highlights these achievements, while also highlighting the many challenges still to be addressed, including the low inflation and high unemployment that still characterize the euro area. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the 2013 annual report of the european central bank.
in writing. the resolution on the ecb's annual report does not contain a genuine critical analysis of the way in which the monetary policy instrument was used in managing the euro area crisis. the resolution fails to highlight, for example, that the measures taken by the ecb have had no significant impact on inflation and the recovery of the real economy. it also fails to highlight the enormous risks that the surge of liquidity provided to banks through the various programmes, from ltros to quantitative easing, will remain trapped in the business of finance, fuelling speculative bubbles and financial instability. in the absence of clear constraints and conditionality, banks obviously find it more cost-effective to reinvest cash in government securities and derivatives rather than using it to lend to households and small and medium-sized enterprises. the solution chosen by the ecb was 'more liquidity', whereas we propose a clear, simple and mandatory separation between traditional credit and speculative financial activities, a reform which is increasingly urgent and necessary to restore a sound and prudent credit transmission mechanism. because of these unacceptable shortcomings and the overly complacent assessment, i have therefore decided not to support this resolution.
in writing. i voted against the report on the ecb's annual report for 2013 because the text does not sufficiently highlight the critical issues in the bank's work. the report contains numerous appreciations of the ecb's unconventional monetary policy interventions, in particular the ltro programmes, the securitised asset purchase plan and the recent quantitative easing programme, as well as continuous references to the need to continue on the path of structural reforms and fiscal consolidation, including the introduction of a section dedicated to financial stability in the light of the new single supervisory function assumed by the ecb last november. however, the total absence of critical reflection on the management of the euro area crisis and an objective analysis of the negligible impact of monetary policy interventions on the real economy is unacceptable.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, many of the points in the text are certainly agreeable, especially the priority given to employment and support for small and mediumsized enterprises. but this year we have a new element that we cannot ignore: i am referring to the juncker plan which will have a significant impact on the european budget in particular. i have always heard, since i have sat in this chamber, that the union's priorities include research and transport, the two programmes from which the investment plan draws in order to have the guarantee of coverage. the return on this fund is still a mystery, but the money for these programs is disappearing. i therefore wonder whether europe's priorities and intentions in the field of budgetary and investment are real or merely propaganda for its own sake, propaganda like commitments not backed by adequate payments. this is another point on which we should give serious thought, not just in words but in real, concrete deeds. that is what the citizens are asking us to do.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as has been said, we concluded the very difficult negotiations on the budget for the current financial year a few weeks ago. what is coming in 2016 will be an even more difficult budget but one that could be a tremendous opportunity. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the environment, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, and so on the environment, and so on the next. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. we must do this by trying to turn our work on the budget into an opportunity. the european union is no longer a purely technical instrument but the main political instrument of the european union's policies. we must get out of the sticky relationship between the council, which wants to give less money, and parliament, which wants to give more, because that is not the point. we must instead work towards a europe to which we not only give more money but also want to give more hope. this is the work that awaits us, we have months to do it, the prospects are there.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the budget of the european union can and must also be an instrument of internal solidarity in support of economic, social and territorial cohesion, contributing to the fight against poverty and to reducing the gaps between the member states and the various regions. i hope that when drafting the 2016 budget, the european commission will take due account of these features of the budget, which i personally consider to be political priorities for the european union's agenda. the commission must put its growth-oriented programmes, horizon 2020, cosme and the youth employment initiative at the heart of the draft budget. they must be equipped with the resources necessary to unlock their full potential and have a tangible positive impact on the lives of citizens, leading to job creation, business development and increased support for research. the impact of tax fraud and tax evasion is no less important, as we know, with a strong negative impact not only on the economies of the member states but also on the union budget. i therefore believe that the commission should continue to intensify the programmes to coordinate the action of the member states in the fight against fraud, particularly in the field of vat.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we must do everything we can to prevent fraud, and all the groups agree on this. but i would like to draw attention to another issue, namely the management of money for customers, starting with the projects to be financed under the juncker plan. the eib will have to be very careful that the projects in question do not finance infrastructure projects that are strongly desired by the lobbies: i am referring to gas storage, unsustainable works, which obviously cause environmental problems but which, in the event of any losses from programmes based on overly optimistic studies, end up burdening taxpayers, with the risk of having to return to private individuals the profits from very risky programmes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud in the community.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr pirinski's report is interesting, but there are a few points to be made. first of all, the fact that for the first time cohesion policy is the second most fraudulent area of budgetary expenditure cannot in any way be a cause for celebration or for letting our guard down. cohesion policy has in fact recorded 321 fraudulent irregularities and 4 672 non-fraudulent irregularities. these figures are extremely worrying, especially if we consider that the aim of this policy is, or rather should be, precisely to reduce economic, social and territorial disparities. italy, romania, bulgaria and poland are leading the way in irregularities involving european funds. for example, in italy, 72 cases of fraud or attempted fraud were recorded in 2013 alone and in cohesion policy alone. while it is good that the authorities have discovered these frauds, we must also ask ourselves questions not only about the level of criminal infiltration and corruption but also about the serious shortcomings of the control systems. i am thinking here of the work of the managing authorities and audit authorities, both at regional level... (the president interrupted the speaker) (the speaker agreed to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. recently, it was reported that in italy, in the regions covered by the convergence objective or less developed regions - we now call them that - there are still cases of fraud. regional operational programmes have again been blocked in those regions where there is the greatest need for these funds. so what's the goal? it is to understand why audit authorities do not work, for example. we have recently met with the regi committee and the problem is at the root and is the responsibility of the audit, management and certification authorities. we are naturally asking the commission to do more checking.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner for her speech and i thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done on the report we are discussing today, which is part of a wider debate on combating so-called pif crimes. as the text adopted by the committee on transport and tourism and the rapporteur's amendments have shown, the protection of the union's financial interests must remain a priority objective of the european union's policies. the results are encouraging. the fraud bureau's statistics are improving year by year, the number of investigations is increasing and the time taken to issue a recommendation is steadily decreasing. nevertheless, the percentage of funds illegally spent which have not been recovered is still very high. i believe that in order to reduce this percentage and to combat so-called pif crimes effectively, it is also necessary to set up the european public prosecutor's office as soon as possible, providing it with the guarantees of independence, efficiency and speed of decision which are indispensable for it to be able to perform its primary function of protecting the financial interests of the union, which is in fact the money of the taxpayers. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i believe and i answer very briefly that the protection of financial interests cannot be separated from the fight against corruption. i think that answers your question. you can't ignore one or the other.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against fraud is, together with the fight against money laundering and corruption, a priority of the political action of the community and national institutions. the data on the persistence of these genuine systemic diseases is alarming. it is a moral, legal and social defeat that they, in all their nuances, from the violation of the rules by mere irregularity to criminal offenses, still afflict and permeate the european system. i am convinced that there is still a need for a united front in the structures and institutions and i therefore hope that measures will be taken to further harmonize the approaches and legislation applied in the various member states. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the funds are used in a way that is compatible with the common market. i would like to conclude by focusing on the subject of public procurement, which is so sensitive and so important for the recovery of the national economy and yet so far from a spontaneous observance of rules and procedures, which is unfortunately as necessary as the external control lever in the fight against irregularities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw the attention of this house to the problem of how the money which europe allocates to the member states, and in particular to italy, is spent. i come from an island, sardinia, which is a champion in the rate of error in the reporting of data on the use of social funds, a system so well tested that it has become a negative example for other regions as well, and which covers most of the stocks under the pretext of privacy. the citizens of sardinia and europe have been watching helplessly for years now as resources are wasted and mismanaged in the midst of local political corruption. i know that olaf's task is not easy, but the situation is now unsustainable and something must be done to change this situation of fraud and corruption with european public money. europe must start to monitor better, with more impact and in a different way than it is doing now.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's report gives us a somewhat positive picture in the fight against fraud, because the number of irregularities has certainly increased but the number of amounts has decreased. but let us speak, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, of important figures: in 2013 alone, 1 609 irregularities were reported in sectors considered to be very important, such as agriculture and fisheries. and i want to reiterate here, also today in this house, that we cannot afford to waste a single euro of community resources on illegal and irregular behaviour. it is therefore essential to act on several fronts: the commission's role is to prevent, that is to say, to act, by intercepting these illegal behaviours at the outset. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the exchange of good practice, and i would like to point out here how much good is being done in italy with colaf. what is happening in italy has taught us a lesson, also in relation to the other member states, and above all in relation to the fact that an action must be repressed and condemned and therefore it is important to act in the field of the european public prosecutor's office and criminal law. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i would like to ask mrs picierno if she is aware that the controls on the structural funds are mostly carried out by the national authorities and then the commission carries out additional controls, because obviously it does not have the resources to control everywhere in all regions. since you are the majority in government in italy and have been governing italy for several years and since these appointments are political, i wanted to know if you were doing anything to increase transparency for citizens on the management of these funds.
answer to a blue-card question. i thank mr valli for his question, which allows me to stress once again that italy probably missed the point is learning a lesson from the other member states, from the establishment of colaf, which has been fully operational since 2007 and which coordinates all the activities that are important in the fight against fraud. so much is being done, although there is certainly much more to be done: we're not here to deny the evidence. of course the level of fraud is still very high, but i think there are steps being taken which we must continue to take together.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have had the opportunity, as many of you have, to speak with some of the respective parliamentarians from liberia, sierra leone and even guinea, who have explained very clearly to me, as they have to all of us, that ebola has had a very devastating impact, not only from the point of view of health but also and above all from the economic point of view, while completely wiping out a sector such as tourism. this in turn has led to a weakening of the health systems that are already weak in those places, a weakening of the infrastructure that allowed the access to drinking water but also a weakening of all those infrastructures that allowed the information of the population and therefore those infrastructures that would have allowed us to act to prevent some practices or rituals that are dangerous for infection. the european union has so far provided 1.2 billion, but this is about the same as the debt of all three of these countries combined: we therefore propose not only debt relief but also the definitive cancellation of the debt, supported and linked, of course, to a programme of growth in health structures.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to stress that europe has certainly done its part. we were able to respond effectively to the emergency but we realized that the lesson is another, that the highway is another. although we must not let our guard down in the face of a possible resurgence of the emergency, we have realized that we must be able to create a network of health infrastructure, of health facilities and of sanitation facilities to improve sanitation conditions, because experience shows us that where this network existed, it was possible to prevent or contain the epidemic. i would therefore ask you, commissioner, to make this effort, which must also be made with the actors who have been working in the field for years: not just with the giant, traditional, big, well-deserved international organizations, but also with intermediate organizations. i know some in my country: i am thinking of cuam doctors with africa, not for africa but with africa fatebenefratelli and my colleagues could name others. we need to work with these people, who have been on the ground for years and who are working in a more participatory way with the local populations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the union's financial aid to the countries most affected by the virus has allowed the epidemic to be contained quickly, but it is not enough. the complete eradication of the disease remains an objective to be achieved, but it is equally vital to support the recovery of affected countries through long-term planning. it is not just about rebuilding their health systems, but about enabling these countries to get back on their feet. this requires a deep strengthening of their governance; appropriate policies on training, research and innovation are needed; investing in centres of excellence; it is necessary to build the confidence of private investors who have fled the stigma of the epidemic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. solidarity requires decisive action on our part. we isolate the virus without isolating the countries affected by the epidemic.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since march 2013 the epidemic has affected more than 22 000 people and killed more than 9 000, almost all of them in sierra leone, liberia and guinea. although international intervention has reduced the risk of an uncontrolled spread of the virus, the ebola threat is still very much present in west africa and international commitment must remain high. the european union and some member states are accused of having realised the gravity of the situation too late and of having taken too long to organise adequate means and aid, leaving ngos very often to fend for themselves. we hope that this warning will serve us in the future to be more effective in dealing with situations like this, perhaps by strengthening the coordination and speed of the european union's response. it seems that the european union alone has invested 1.2 billion euros to respond to this emergency and it would be desirable that the quality and effectiveness of this expenditure could be assessed positively. the world health organization has stated that the economic resources raised can guarantee the first round of vaccines, once they are made available. the next step, therefore, which i think we must take, is to devise a programme to help the countries most affected to rebuild their national health systems.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. madam president, you referred to the research: i would like to ask what your views are on the creation of a public and european pharmaceutical company to counter the dominance and power of private pharmaceutical companies in this and other sectors.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was very pleased to hear such enthusiasm and conviction in the words of commissioner stylianides following the ebola conference. how can i disagree with the many comments that have been made in a somewhat cross-cutting manner by all the groups, by many colleagues, on the proposals to tackle and solve the serious problem of ebola and in any case to keep the attention high on it. i am in full agreement with the speech on prevention and education, but above all, as mr pedicini said and as mr ferreira also said, on the cancellation of public debts in these countries. i would also like to say that the commission has been very careful in its work on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the international conference on ebola held in brussels a few days ago has brought to the table the facts of a virus which is still frightening: between sierra leone and liberia, there have been over 22,000 cases and 9,000 deaths. these are catastrophic numbers, because this is a catastrophe in every sense of the word. organizing large events on this topic is important, but even more so will doing something concrete to address the root of the problem. europe has the means to do so: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am certainly, like many others in this house, absolutely in favour of montenegro's accession to the european union and we of course assess with great positivity the progress already underlined by those who have preceded me in the negotiations. i would like to stress two points on the environment. construction of a submarine cable linking tivat and pescara began at the end of january. eur 775 million for 390 km of cable: 25 kilometers will be not underwater but on the coasts of the two countries. on this project, in addition to the great environmental impact, great problems of lack of transparency and risk of corruption were raised. at the same time, today, tuesday the 10th, in the coastal town of budva, there was a demonstration by environmental organizations against the decision to exploit marine hydrocarbons, just as has been happening for several months in croatia, because they could jeopardize the very strong tourist vocation of montenegro, croatia and us italians who are their neighbors on the other side of the adriatic. so we absolutely agree with the doubts raised by the citizens of montenegro: yes to tourism, yes to protecting the ecosystem; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. colleague, thank you for asking. but i think that a compromise is good when the environmental impact is minimised, because we must not forget that countries like croatia, italy and montenegro, because of their history and our culture, have an eminently tourist vocation which must be defended. so, as i said earlier, it is absolutely important to develop renewable energy, we strongly believe in this energy model and we work together in a smart way and without hasty choices, in order to reduce environmental risk to the lowest possible level.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i naturally share the observations made in the report on montenegro's progress in 2014 and i would like to thank mr tannock in particular for his timely work on this issue. i have recently visited the country and have seen firsthand the willingness of the montenegrin authorities to cooperate with the european union. the country's efforts to achieve full integration into the european context and the will to take further steps forward in the fight against discrimination, corruption and organised crime are evident. the 2014-2015 action plan on public administration reform and judicial reform are moving in the right direction. there are still many problems: montenegro should strengthen the effectiveness of active labour policies, improve the quality of education and, above all, strengthen health and social infrastructure. the next institutional visit scheduled for april will certainly give us the opportunity for an even more precise examination and will enable us to go into the issues raised concerning the environment and energy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission, the council and the rapporteur give us a completely sweetened view of the situation: i have not heard the word 'mafia' in the whole report, except for a speech a short while ago. yet not long ago, the government of milo đukanović was described by two italian prosecutors who are experts in the international smuggling of cigarettes as "to be wary of". and a recent report by italian intelligence services lists this country as a dangerous country, which could harbor islamic terrorists. it is a country in which there is no rule of law if it is true, as it is true, that investors are being scammed by the state, as in the recent, shocking case of the sale of a foundry, so there is no legal protection for the investor. the following investors in montenegro have claims of €1 billion: european companies that have invested in montenegro have been scammed. this is a situation of absolute lawlessness; so you are crazy to want this state in this condition in the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you commissioner, council, the work done by mr tannock is certainly a good progress report. but i see a bit of confusion on the issue of enlargement to montenegro, because commission president juncker has said that there will be no enlargement during these five years: neither with montenegro nor with any other state. there are those who are against montenegro's accession but they are for a united europe; there are those who are for montenegro inside but it should be against the other states of europe: so i see a little confusion. it is certainly true what many colleagues have already said about the progress made by montenegro, which is probably even better placed in certain areas of protection than the member states of the european union. as regards the completion of a united europe, let us say yes, united, but on other conditions which should be respect for the rule of law and also for the social state (this also applies to all member states). it is important that the balkans be included and not just the sea-side of montenegro because albania is also on that side. so we hope that we can move forward with these processes very quickly.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i will call you macedonia, as high representative federica mogherini did a few days ago, because i believe that this region is called macedonia. it does not matter if the international diatribe causes the acronym fyrom to become the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, because that would be like saying that the united states of america cannot be called america. i think it's a little absurd in 2015 to discuss terminology and names: i hope that the new greek government, the tsipras government, will adopt a more open attitude and ensure that bilateral issues, whether they concern relations with greece or relations with bulgaria, do not block the integration process of a country which has been waiting for ten years for this accession process, because a sense of frustration is emerging among the macedonian people which can cause - and commissioner hahn was right - a deterioration in the internal situation of the country. so i hope this situation unravels. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i did not say that the name problem was the only problem that delayed the entry of macedonia or the start of the accession procedure. but surely greece's attitude has been a deeply hostile one and i believe that in 2015 we cannot waste time on these nomenclature issues. for yugoslavia it was called the republic of macedonia, they are called macedonians: let's just call it macedonia and unblock this situation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to take this opportunity to thank mr vajgl for the great work of diplomacy and mediation he has done in this report, together with the other shadow rapporteurs, on a sensitive issue, as this debate has shown. as i said earlier in regard to montenegro, the clear prospect of integration for all the peoples of the balkans, who certainly meet the copenhagen criteria, cannot be called into question: it's a historical necessity. i do not wish to enter into the debate on the name and will stick strictly to the internationally recognised name of fyrom, but i stress the need to start accession negotiations anyway, to be conducted in parallel with the name negotiations, if we do not want this blockade to cause further instability in the balkan region. i therefore call on both states to make a great effort to come together and to meet each other, a position which is also widely supported in the report. the train to europe can no longer be stopped at the skopje railway if we do not want it to be stopped forever.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, serbia has shown that it is fully committed to the process of european integration and that it is determined to tackle in a decisive and direct manner the systemic and socioeconomic reforms needed to continue along the path of change and approximation to european standards. the negotiations are producing positive effects: i am thinking, for example, of the progress towards the normalisation of relations with kosovo and the increasingly constructive approach which the belgrade government is taking in relations with neighbouring countries, also making it possible to achieve substantial progress both in regional cooperation and in the establishment of closer relations with the european union. serbia is a key country on the balkan chessboard and its entry into the european union is to be considered strategic. it is therefore clear that it must align its foreign and security policy with that of the european union. the alignment of serbia with the union's foreign policy decisions is a key element in the process of european integration and i hope that the belgrade government will be able to make the courageous choices necessary to continue negotiations with the european union successfully.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, serbia has also finally begun the long and arduous path towards membership of the union. i think it is very important that mr mcallister's report - which many have stressed and which i fully share - should be very balanced and open in spirit to all of us who have been involved in it, the shadow rapporteur, the missing persons, a wound that is still bleeding in the heart of the countries of the former yugoslavia. twenty years later, think about it, 12,000 families still don't know the fate of their loved ones: the european union is also committed to the development of the region, and it is therefore essential that serbia continues to cooperate with its neighbours in the spirit of the mostar declaration. i would also like to remind you that serbia has just a few months ago assumed the presidency of the osce. this is a particularly favourable moment to make it a bridge and a privileged mediator for dialogue with russia, given the close cultural and historical ties which they share. we hope that this will be a good opportunity to find a good political compromise, to revive diplomacy and to calm the winds of war.
member of the commission.– madam president, thank you for this interesting debate. it reflects the great importance the union continues to attach to the credibility of the enlargement process, which remains crucial for maintaining the momentum of reforms and public support for enlargement in the region and in serbia in particular. i take note of the discussion on serbia’s law on the organisation and competence of state authorities in war crimes proceedings. i fully understand the sensitivities of this matter and i believe that serbia and its neighbours need to look to the future in a spirit of regional cooperation and reconciliation. i take this opportunity to underline that effective and impartial handling of war crimes, in line with international standards, features high in the accession negotiations with serbia. it is covered by the specific recommendations in the screening report in chapter 23 about the judiciary and fundamental rights, stressing the need for efficient deterrent and impartial treatment of war crimes, equal treatment of suspects, and proportionality of sentences and protection of victims. all these recommendations will have to be addressed in the judiciary section of the action plan required for the opening of chapter 23. the commission is actively involved in the preparation of this action plan and is committed to reviewing the measures undertaken by serbia in this respect and in this framework. once again thank you for this very interesting debate. i would also again like to thank the author mr mcallister and his colleagues for this very balanced report.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, honourable members, commissioner, to conclude, let me express my sincere gratitude to parliament’s rapporteur on serbia, david mcallister, for his excellent work and his commitment. this has been a very fruitful and useful debate. we believe that serbia now has a clear path for moving ahead in the accession process. also, the first chapters have not yet been opened, but serbia is demonstrating commitment and readiness to achieve swift progress in the talks. the council agrees with the notion that the first chapter should indeed be opened soon. in this process, we are guided by the negotiation framework principles, in which it is stated that the achievement of the negotiations will be guided by serbia’s progress on preparing for accession, within a framework of economic and social convergence. progress on the rule of law and on the normalisation of relations with kosovo is of particular importance at this stage of negotiations. in this regard, we welcome the resumption of the high—level dialogue on 9 february 2015 and we encourage both sides to use the momentum and to work together towards reaching agreement on the remaining issues. we will devote particular attention to monitoring progress on all the specific issues underlined in our conclusions and the eu common positions, before the next steps in the negotiation process can be taken. in this respect, i welcome parliament’s commitment and its determination to encourage serbia to push the necessary reforms forward. i would like to thank you once again for this debate, and i thank the rapporteur for preparing this report.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, let me first thank rapporteur ulrike lunacek for her work on kosovo, and the parliament as a whole for the opportunity to discuss this issue. i will start by recalling that the council, in its conclusions of december 2014, noted the initialling in july 2014 of a stabilisation and association agreement (saa) with kosovo. the council took note of the commission’s intention to issue the proposals for signature and conclusion of the agreement as soon as possible, without prejudice to member states’ positions on status. the council also welcomed the end of the protracted political stalemate and the formation of the new institutions. it called upon the new authorities to engage swiftly on the reform agenda and on the high-level dialogue with belgrade. we called on kosovo to focus on implementation of the comprehensive reforms necessary to enable it to meet its obligations under the proposed stabilisation and association agreement. progress on its european path is of particular importance to kosovo and the region in whole. the citizens of kosovo deserve to see concrete results delivered and a number of the most urgent issues attended to. strong political commitment will be required to address the challenges. particular attention should be paid to improving the rule of law, including judicial independence, and to intensifying the fight against organised crime and corruption. we welcome kosovo’s progress so far, but we would also point out that kosovo needs to address shortcomings raised in the visa dialogue, including mitigating the security and migration-related risks of potential visa liberalisation. in this regard, the need for structural economic reforms, addressing the high level of unemployment, is becoming increasingly urgent. important reforms, such as electoral reform and public administration reform, remain a priority. the protection of minorities must be addressed. the increased focus by the commission on the national economic reform programmes also applies to kosovo. we are hopeful that this approach will serve as an aid to kosovo in implementing its economic reform package. the normalisation process with serbia has seen significant progress. kosovo must maintain an active and constructive engagement in this process. the dialogue remains essential in terms of advancing a european future for both serbia and kosovo. therefore, the normalisation of relations should be one of the key tasks for kosovo. in this respect, let me welcome the resumption on 9 february 2015 of the high-level dialogue between belgrade and pristina and the finalisation of the agreement on justice and the judiciary in kosovo. this is a step towards full implementation of the brussels agreement, which we expect to be achieved as soon as possible. we also welcome the agreement between prime minister mustafa and prime minister vučić to work together to tackle regional concerns, among them the acute problem of illegal migration from kosovo, which is also reflected in your resolution. the council will continue to monitor closely kosovo’s continued engagement towards visible and sustainable progress in the normalisation of relations with serbia. this means implementation in good faith of all agreements reached so far, so that kosovo and serbia can continue on their respective european paths. this is an essential principle of the proposed stabilisation and association agreement that will underpin the development of relations and cooperation between the eu and kosovo. lastly, kosovo should continue to cooperate closely and effectively with the european union rule of law mission (eulex) and contribute actively to the full and unhindered execution by eulex of its renewed mandate. kosovo should also, as a matter of priority, implement the political commitment to establish the special court to hear cases arising out of the investigation led by the special investigative task force, by adopting all the necessary legal changes.
member of the commission.– madam president, i welcome the motion for a resolution on the european integration process of kosovo. the commission and the european parliament continue to share the same vision of kosovo’s european future. we are grateful for the support of this house and look forward to continuing our close cooperation. we stand ready to help and support parliament, and the rapporteur ms lunacek, over the next few months and years in advancing kosovo’s european perspective. in line with the motion for a resolution, during my recent visit to pristina i emphasised the need for economic reforms to enhance kosovo’s competitiveness leading to growth, job creation, investment in education and better living conditions for kosovo’s citizens. this will help in addressing the root causes of irregular migration. our progress report of october 2014 identified the key areas that need to be tackled by kosovo. emphasis remains on the rule of law, reform of public administration and strengthening socio-economic development. all three aspects are essential and progress in these fields will yield political and economic benefits for kosovo. last july we completed the negotiations of the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) and initialled the text with kosovo. as you know, the kosovo saa is eu only, not mixed. however, i should like to emphasise that it is both comprehensive and robust and that it covers all key areas covered by the other saas in the region. once in force, i am sure there will be very few practical differences between it and other saas. following the initialling of the saa, the agreement and the draft council decisions are now being translated. this should be completed later this month. i will propose to the college approval of the package early in april, after which we will submit it to the council for approval. we aim for the council to agree on the saa signature later in the spring and as soon as high representative/vice president mogherini and kosovo have signed, the saa will be transmitted to this house for consent. parliament therefore has an important role to play in the approval process. if the saa is to come into force in early 2016, which is what we continue to aim for, it will be essential that the dossier is processed efficiently. of course we stand ready to provide support throughout the process. once parliament has given its consent, the council will be able to proceed with the conclusions of the saa. given its eu only nature, ratification by member states of the interim agreement are not required. therefore, once concluded, the saa will enter into force immediately. the coming into force of the kosovo saa will be a milestone in the development of eu-kosovo relations. for the first time, there will be a contractual relationship between the european union and kosovo. this relationship provides for rights and benefits, but it also creates duties and obligations. i am sure both sides will need time to get used to this, but i am equally sure that implementation of the saa will be to the benefit of both and i look forward to parliament’s continued support for this promising process.
i would like to thank mrs lunacek, who has been monitoring the political developments in kosovo for some time. the resolution we have tabled seems to me to be balanced and to point the way forward. we have said that kosovo is in the midst of a transition and transformation process and there is no doubt that we have welcomed the end of political uncertainty after the elections, with the formation of the assembly and the new government. now there's another part of the road to travel: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it is essential to wage a decisive battle against corruption and organised crime and to implement a policy to combat unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, by implementing economic and structural reforms and sustainable development. we must, in essence, test the new government and measure its ability to work towards these goals. the european union will certainly provide support and encouragement to achieve these objectives. however, some concerns remain, concerning the independence, reliability and impartiality of judges and prosecutors. a functioning justice system is the essential element of a country that wants to be democratic. the resolution also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat corruption and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat corruption. the credibility of the european union itself is also at stake. in the end, i believe that we must work to bring kosovo forward on the democratic front, which is the condition for stability in the region, and we will support the resolution because it is moving in this direction.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, our neighbours in kosovo are faced with a very difficult situation in 2015, painted by a kosovar artist with a big black "e". "e" as exodus, europe, economy and eulex, four huge problems they are facing. unemployment is at an incredible rate, 30% overall, 56% for those under 24: one in three kosovars is below the poverty line. that is why four to five hundred people a day are emigrating from kosovo, with peaks of up to a thousand at the beginning of february. that's why 18,000 went to germany alone. all are prey to the false promises of ruthless criminal organizations of serbian and albanian human traffickers. this must lead the political forces of kosovo to a sense of responsibility for a determined fight against corruption, organised crime and a real economic and social policy, capable of lifting the country out of its crisis, because without its children working to improve their homeland, kosovo will not be able to look to the future with optimism. the scale of the challenge has also been well analysed by the resolution by mrs lunacek and i welcome the excellent work done so far. we remember that serbia and kosovo will have to continue alongside each other on the path to accession and we will work with them to make this path straight.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 2014 was an important year for kosovo and its process of rapprochement with the european union. the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement has laid the foundations for the creation of a single economic area, but we must not stop there. we must go beyond the creation of a single market and create an area where everyone can fully enjoy their fundamental rights. from this point of view, 2014 was also an important year for kosovo. the government has set up a coordinating advisory group for lgbti rights and on 17 may the first national pride was held in pristina on the occasion of the world day against homophobia and transphobia. i am pleased to note that, unlike in other countries in the region, there were no incidents and that government buildings, international organisations and embassies of eu countries displayed the rainbow flag and other symbols in support of the movement. i also thank mrs lunacek, although there is still a long way to go, for her excellent report, which i hope will get as many votes as possible in this house tomorrow.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to congratulate mrs lunacek on her work, which is certainly a constructive report, because we are probably talking about the most difficult situation compared to the other countries we have discussed before, since kosovo is not only the youngest country but also a country that is not recognised by five member states of the european union, and that alone should give us cause for concern. the stabilisation and association agreement is certainly a good first step: but i would not like it to become a step too far, because it is a very rapid first step, and we risk interrupting what should be a natural process, which should bring all the balkans into the european union. we all know that there are problems with organized crime and the danger of terrorism: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i am going to follow mrs kalniņa-lukaševica's proposal with the three points, but first i would like to say very affectionately to mr manfred that he is a bit of a recidivist in pointing out the countries which are not virtuous. the french government is making important reforms, taking a courageous and counter-cultural stance, and it is paradoxical that instead of praising it, it is being criticized. the economy: investment fund, good meeting yesterday. parliament is doing its job with its two rapporteurs, bullmann and fernandes. we are not a ratifying body, but we do not want to twist the proposal either; we want to strengthen it and therefore parliament's position will be a very constructive one because we want the operation to succeed. we, the socialist and democratic group, were the ones who proposed it, and we want to defend this great investment bet made by the commission and parliament. and we applaud those governments that are contributing - as president juncker has reminded us - italy, france, spain, germany and we encourage others to bet on this plan. we are continuing to work towards an agreement on greece, despite the contradictory positions of the greek government. on the energy union, i agree with what president juncker and mrs kalniņa-lukaševica have said. the energy union is a very important objective. we need to decarbonise europe and aim for domestic emission reduction targets of at least 40% by 2030, and we can do even more, taking into account some difficult situations in some regions that affect the industrial sector, to which some positive responses must be given. we must and can reduce our energy bills and our dependence on foreign energy imports. finally, foreign policy. all right, minsk, check, but the focus today is libya and we must strongly support the action that high representative mogherini is taking on libya: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the talks in morocco and algeria are yielding good results, but we must act quickly before the country is left to anarchy and destruction. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i thank you for attributing to me the authorship of a proposal, a bet which is not mine but of highly influential personalities in the political, scientific and economic world. it's about collectively reducing carbon emissions, and that seems to me to be a shared goal. we must support this idea, we must support renewable energy and we must take account of certain situations where the industrial sector would suffer negative consequences, which must be remedied.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this european semester, which is coming to an end in its first phase, deserves particular attention because it takes place five years after the adoption of the europe 2020 strategy but above all at the same time as the start of quantitative easing. quantitative easing is a major operation, with a wide scope and an innovative character in the european institutional and financial context. it is important now that the other institutions support the effort made by the ecb. only one thing would not be acceptable now: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the financial perspective. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and it must be clear, above all, to those who have always been attentive to the accounts, demanding austerity in their name. we cannot justify to our citizens the paradox that banks are the recipients of similar figures, while municipalities, even with healthy budgets, cannot spend the money on investments because of the stability pact. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. we welcome the news that the energy union will be the focus of the next european council meeting on 19 and 20 march. in its five dimensions, it is certainly a priority for the european union, especially in view of the recent events that have led to doubts about the security of supply during the winter months. in particular, it is necessary to create alternative sources by establishing a climate of trust and solidarity between member states and to invest heavily in the field of energy efficiency, which could have a beneficial side effect also in terms of increasing employment. finally, we note that the situation in ukraine remains fragile and unstable and look forward to the next european council to learn about developments, which we hope will include effective monitoring of the minsk agreements and a discussion of possible further economic support measures for ukraine.
the next item is the report by mr dariusz rosati, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies: the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the application of this regulation and the rules on the application of other union acts, in particular those concerning the application of articles 10 to 14 and articles 15 to 17 of this regulation. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of the union in the work of the european external action service.
the dynamics of the debate and the length of the items which have been raised considerably in relation to the votes which will be held after the debate make it impossible to accept a blue card.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank mr gutiérrez prieto for his work, because it shows that, no matter where you sit in this chamber, when you think of citizens and look at them, it is not the positions that count, but the intentions. so he's got the appreciation for the work and the willingness to find a way to share. of course, the assessment i feel i'm making is that for the umpteenth time we're being made to swallow the purge and then we're given the candy, which means that the taste in our mouth is maybe a little bit sweeter, but the result is exactly the same: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. when will you allow us to breathe? when will you solve the problem of poverty in our countries? when will you give us the freedom to make real social policies that support the citizens?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are once again celebrating the ritual of the useless and harmful debate on the european semester. it is useless, because the coordination of economic policies has not solved any problems; the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in its efforts to bring about a change in the situation in the community. an example of all is veneto, my region, where the "euro-follies" have since the beginning of the crisis destroyed 100,000 jobs and caused the closure of over 3,000 businesses in 2014 alone. these are the wonderful results of the european semesters. let us abolish them and abolish these useless rites and abolish the europe of austerity and sacrifice. no more rallying, no more propaganda, no more lying. we have to do something right here. the commission's proposal is to change the absurd budgetary parameters laid down in the european treaties and to put citizens and work at the centre of european policies. there are many who are asking for it, and i will use every minute i have in this chamber to give the people a voice. only then can a new europe be born.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the six months of economic policy coordination have been characterized in recent years by a cold accounting rigor, a severity with which the european commission imposes on the member states the application of rules often inspired by austerity instead of promoting growth. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a dispute between a member state and a third country is a good one. this is all the more so in the digital single market, as electronic transactions, in particular cross-border transactions, are becoming increasingly important. if we are to encourage this activity, online consumers must be guaranteed a level of protection equal to that which they are accustomed to in the traditional market. the commission still has a lot of work to do in this sector, which is a driving force for growth, because it has not yet succeeded in bringing uniformity and consistency to the regulatory framework. and i'll close with a fact: the cecchini study of last september shows that the failure to complete the single market costs us eur 651 billion.
i am sorry to say, mr benifei, that the sitting is very late for the plenary with the votes and only five speeches will be accepted on the subject of 'catch the eye'.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the 2015 annual growth survey contains many new, often positive, features, such as the introduction of the joint employment report, which this year accompanies the data presented in the social scoreboard. these documents demonstrate the commission's renewed attention to the employment and social aspects of the european economy. better late than never, it might be added! it is essential now that the european union mobilizes all its resources to resolve the situation described in those documents, especially as regards unemployment, which threatens the european social fabric, the sustainability of economic policy and the single currency and the sustainability of the european project itself. the new approach presented by the commission, based on the triangle of investment, structural reforms and budgetary responsibility, can only work if it is geared to supporting citizens in terms of redistribution of wealth, job creation, territorial and social cohesion. the oxfam report on inequality cited by my colleague ulvskog gives us clear and worrying data. the investment plan we are discussing is creating a lot of expectations that should not be disappointed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that the main objective we must pursue is growth. to make european economies grow, we need a development plan based on investment, we need to abandon the ideology of rigour which has caused so much damage and we also need to have a place where these policies intertwine. that is why the third pillar is very important: the internal market is the place where the development policies can be given a real impetus. but there must also be some element of coherence and coherence between the policies. i am sorry to note that the document from the committee on economic and monetary affairs is in clear contradiction with the documents from the imco committee and the empl committee, which are both very good. there are new hypotheses which must be supported, but to support them we need policies which are, alas, very different from those which are still indicated in the document we are about to vote on.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, representatives of the council, in recent months reforms have been initiated which put growth and development back at the centre of economic policies. this was also possible thanks to the commitment and determination of the political family of the socialists and democrats. only by linking economic governance directly to the real economy can the measures taken in recent months really help to achieve lasting and sustainable growth. we must recover our competitiveness at home and abroad by investing again in two directions which can only seem to be opposite: quality manufacturing and new areas of digital innovation and research. the single european market still represents a dimension with little potential, sometimes perceived as being far from the needs of society. the report adopted by the imco committee points the way forward to make the internal market a tool for citizens, consumers, businesses and institutions in the common pursuit of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall take a minute to list the four main causes of this crisis. firstly, the different policies pursued by the member states which then lead to fiscal dumping, social dumping. the council is full of hypocrisy and should make a move. two, the euro, a fixed exchange rate bond between nineteen different countries, which is boosting german exports: 217 billion surplus, 7% in 2014 and it's not the first year. we apply the rules to the strong, not just the weak. depressive fiscal policies that kill and depress weak economies; the european central bank's monetary policies are not designed to support the thousands of micro-enterprises that are failing in some countries, but to support the strategic plans of banks and lobbyists to do business and share the market. you should be ashamed of these things.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. i fully endorsed the inclusion of the gutierrez-prieto report on employment and social aspects in the 2015 growth analysis, in the context of the european semester. i agree with the rapporteur in stressing that the economic and social situation in the eu remains bleak, due to 1) negative growth rates, which seriously undermine the achievement of the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, particularly in the eurozone countries; 2) the high proportion of the european population at risk of poverty, unsustainable levels of underemployment and precariousness; 3) the worsening of socioeconomic imbalances which have widened the gap between the centre and the periphery of europe to the extent of undermining the achievement of convergence of the less developed regions, and with it the fundamental objective of socioeconomic and territorial cohesion. it is therefore necessary for the council and the commission to focus on the importance of labour market reforms, in order to expand growth potential, human capital and increase productivity, through measures to support the creation of quality jobs, especially for the groups most affected by the crisis, the promotion of long-term investment, the inclusion of a gender pillar in the europe 2020 strategy, the creation of a european platform for undeclared work.
i apologize, mr gollnisch, for your objection, but this is not a personal matter within the meaning of rule 164. thank you.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make an appeal under the rules of procedure against racist behaviour by a member of this parliament who called the roma people 'the scum of society' in a television programme watched by millions of people. i ask the president of this house whether, under the rules of procedure, action can be taken against what i must call mr buonanno who has made these statements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal which concerns the codification and recasting (largely technical corrections) of regulation (ec) no 625/2009 on common rules for imports from certain third countries. these are not countries which can be a threat to our manufacturing sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i consider that the regime of common rules for imports from certain third countries can help improve economic relations with those countries, which can help strengthen the european economy.
in writing. ‒ the proposal concerns the codification and recasting of regulation (ec) no 625/2009 on common rules for imports from certain third countries. these are not countries which can pose a danger to our productive sectors, and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for imports from certain third countries. following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, an alignment exercise took place in order to ensure that the previous comitology and ad hoc decision-making procedures in the area of trade policy were in line with the new regime of delegated and implementing acts. the substance of the proposal is therefore largely made up of technical corrections which do not contain any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ the text under consideration amends regulation (ec) no 625/2009 as regards imports from certain third countries. the intervention was due to the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which changed certain procedures and, on occasion, the commission introduced certain technical corrections and amendments. the proposal covers imports of products including coal and steel but excluding textiles (which are covered by a different regulation) and applies to a limited number of countries: the eu has also adopted a number of measures to promote the development of the region. the text does not contain any controversial aspects and only introduces updates necessary for the smooth functioning of the mechanisms; i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the fact that the measure under examination imposes quantitative limits on imports in the textile sector from third countries such as azerbaijan, belarus, north korea, kazakhstan, turkmenistan and uzbekistan, favouring and protecting in particular italian products in this sector which have suffered a drop in sales due to the non-competitive price with the asian world due to their lower labour costs. i have welcomed the commission's work to codify an existing regulation dealing with common rules for imports in general from certain third countries. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal aims to codify an existing regulation dealing with common rules for imports in general from certain third countries. the regulation applies to imports of textiles not covered by trade agreements or preferences from certain countries: azerbaijan, belarus, north korea, kazakhstan, turkmenistan and uzbekistan. i voted in favour of this regulation because it imposes quantitative restrictions on imports from these countries, thus further protecting italian products and interests in this sector, which are already heavily damaged by trade in asian products, which are on the market at lower prices due to the social dumping which is taking place.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr walesa's report because the proposal in question is merely a codification of existing acts, without any substantial changes. the main change concerns the updating of the annex, from which countries that are now wto members, namely armenia, russia, tajikistan and vietnam, have been removed.
in writing. ‒ this commission proposal concerns the codification and recasting of regulation (ec) no 625/2009 on common rules for imports from certain third countries. the proposal lays down safeguard and surveillance instruments applicable to imports of products including coal and steel but excluding textiles, which are subject to a separate regulation. the regulation applies only to a limited number of countries: the eu has also adopted a number of measures to promote the development of the region. the safeguarding device is rarely used in practice; as regards the surveillance, the last surveillance measure in force was the one concerning steel products and expired on 31 december 2012. the commission has proposed an update of the annex, from which countries that are now members of the world trade organisation, namely armenia, russia, tajikistan and vietnam, are removed. i also support and vote in favour of the commission's proposal on the common rules for imports from certain third countries, on the basis of the favourable opinion of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights on this point.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for imports from certain third countries. the aim of this proposal is to recast regulation (ec) no 625/2009 establishing safeguard and surveillance instruments for imports of products other than textiles, by introducing some substantial, largely technical amendments. i consider the use of the recasting instrument to be essential, as it ensures the clarity and certainty of european legislation, allowing it to keep pace with a constantly changing international context, as in the case of trade policies. the revision of the annex provided for the removal of the countries which had become wto members (armenia, tajikistan, russia and vietnam).
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal concerns the codification and recasting of regulation (ec) no 625/2009 on common rules for imports from certain third countries. it lays down safeguard and surveillance instruments applicable to imports of products, including coal and steel. this regulation shall apply only to the following countries: azerbaijan, belarus, north korea, kazakhstan, turkmenistan and uzbekistan. the main change in the reform concerns the removal of countries that are now members of the wto, namely armenia, russia, tajikistan and vietnam. the proposal for recasting does not contain any substantive amendments other than those expressly indicated as such in the proposal itself and, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of the earlier acts with such amendments, the proposal is limited to a mere codification of the existing texts, without changing their substance in any way. as these are purely technical corrections, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a vote concerns the simple codification and recasting of regulation (ec) no 625/2009 on the common rules for imports from certain third countries. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report presented as it concerns trade agreements with countries which do not undermine our manufacturing sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report in order to obtain from the commission a new proposal which would make it possible to have a more harmonised text, thus simplifying the work of many entrepreneurs and consumers who have to consult the rules applicable to imports.
in writing. i thank my colleagues in the legal affairs committee for the continuing and valuable work on adapting community legislation to the needs of businesses and citizens, as was done during this part-session with the reform of the regulation on the common rules for imports from certain third countries. following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, there have already been numerous regulatory alignment interventions to ensure that the previous comitology and ad hoc decision-making procedures in the area of trade policy were in line with the new regime of delegated and implementing acts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the report by mr jarosław wałęsa. the proposal concerns the codification and recasting of regulation (ec) no 625/2009 on common rules for imports from certain third countries. the content of the report is technical and is essentially aimed at codifying and aligning existing texts, without making substantial changes in content.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for imports from certain third countries. the safeguard and control instruments applicable to imports of products such as coal and steel have been implemented. regulation (ec) no 625/2009 of 7 july 2009 was amended to improve the provision on the common arrangements applicable to imports from certain third countries. the fact that consultations can be held on import conditions, the economic and trade situation and on matters relating to the management of trade agreements, together with the possibility for the commission to examine the volume of imports, their price, the impact on producers and the particular economic system of the countries concerned, makes it possible to have a system of guarantees in place; this is in the interests of the european consumer and makes our market safer.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to codify and recast regulation (ec) no 625/2009 on common rules for imports from certain third countries. since the content of the wałęsa report is merely a codification of existing texts, without making any substantial changes to them, i thought it appropriate to support it with a favourable vote.
in writing. ‒ we support the commission's proposal for the codification and recasting of regulation (ec) no 625/2009 on common rules for imports from certain third countries. in fact, following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, it was necessary to ensure that the previous comitology and ad hoc decision-making procedures in the area of trade policy were in line with the new regime of delegated and implementing acts. in order to incorporate some substantial changes, it was considered necessary to convert the codification into a recast. we would simply like to stress the importance of safeguard and surveillance instruments applicable to imports of products including coal and steel from azerbaijan, belarus, north korea, kazakhstan, turkmenistan and uzbekistan.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this proposal is to start codifying the common rules applicable to imports in general from certain third countries, which contain rules which have been amended on several occasions. this system applies, through quantitative restrictions, to imports of textiles not covered by trade agreements or preferences. in view of the foregoing considerations and as this is a technical report which does not introduce any new content but merely a reworking, i have decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ according to the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the commission proposal does not contain any substantive amendments other than those expressly indicated as such and, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of the earlier acts and of those amendments, the proposal is limited to a mere codification of the existing acts without any substantive amendments. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ as will be recalled, the commission proposal concerns the codification and recasting of regulation (ec) no 625/2009 on common rules for imports from certain third countries. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon necessitated an alignment exercise to allow the previous decision-making procedures in the area of trade policy to be brought into line with the new regime of delegated and implementing acts; the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. i agree with the commission that it was necessary to make substantial changes to correct certain errors and hence the conversion of the codification into a recast. i am in favour of the commission's proposal, which establishes sound safeguards and surveillance instruments applicable to imports of products including coal and steel, the application of which concerns a certain number of countries, with the justified exclusion of those which are members of the world trade organisation.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal aims to codify an existing regulation, which has been amended several times. the regulation applies to imports of textiles not covered by trade agreements or preferences, which are ultimately only those from north korea and belarus. the regulation also imposes quantitative restrictions on imports from these countries. it is important that the european union protects european consumers and, to the extent appropriate, european businesses in international competition.
in writing. i decided to vote in favour of the text because it provides for safeguard and surveillance instruments applicable to imports of products including coal and steel but excluding textiles. the regulation applies only to a limited number of countries: azerbaijan, belarus, north korea, kazakhstan, turkmenistan and uzbekistan, as they are now the only countries in the world with which we do not have any other types of trade agreements in force either in the world trade organisation or specifically (free trade or partnership). these are not countries which can be a threat to our manufacturing sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the text, which, although it does not change the substance of the text, is a measure to which i wish to confirm my firm opposition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i consider that an agreement with one of the most important baltic countries is fundamental to strengthening the geopolitical influence of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the text concerns the approval of a mere codification process, a formal procedure which does not introduce any change in substance, concerning a measure against which i confirm my opposition. i voted against the measure.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part. since the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission considered that the proposal in question was merely a codification of existing texts without any substantial changes, i voted in favour of this proposal and followed the position of parliament which adopted its position at first reading by adopting the commission's proposal.
in writing. ‒ as an amendment merely to codify existing agreements, the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and the republic of montenegro contributes to the political and economic stability not only of the country but of the entire western balkans, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the stabilisation and association agreement with the republic of montenegro because i consider it to be a further step by that country towards reforms aimed at acquiring the european legislative body and towards consolidating the democratization process. i also welcome the fact that montenegro is currently the only country in the region to have opened and provisionally closed some chapters of negotiations with the eu, and this leadership role represents for me an increased responsibility in the regional context.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the member states and the republic of montenegro, as this proposal is limited to a mere codification of the existing texts, without any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns a proposal for the codification of eu law. it is a purely technical procedure, provided for in article 103 of the regulation, which is intended to verify that the proposal for codification is in fact merely a codification without any substantial changes. each proposal for codification is examined in advance by the legal services of the commission, the council and parliament. the conclusions of this evaluation are then sent to the legal affairs committee for validation and subsequent voting in plenary for final approval by parliament. in view of the favourable legal opinions on this matter, i am voting in favour of the stabilisation and association agreement between the ec and the republic of montenegro.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is simply a codification of existing texts without any substantial changes. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because it is not objective and i do not share the political will behind the proposal.
in writing. i agree with the opinions of the legal services of the three community institutions on the codification of council regulation (ec) no 140/2008 on the procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu, its member states and the republic of montenegro. this is a change merely for the purpose of codifying the aforementioned agreements, with only a formal value, but i believe it is also an important political sign, which comes on the day of the adoption of the encouraging progress report on montenegro.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by mr andrzej duda, as it aims to start codifying the procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part. the rapporteur's proposal is a technical one, codifying existing texts without making any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part. although there are no substantial changes, it may be useful to codify the existing situation in order to better delineate relevant points, as the eu's openness to relations with balkan countries such as montenegro is an important point for the economy, the market and products. a stimulus to the development of productive capacity can also help the country to improve and establish an industrial sector.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the duda report is to ensure that the codification of certain procedures for the application of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part, is initiated. since the proposal of my colleague is merely a codification of existing texts without making any substantial changes to them, i have decided to support it by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this proposal for a regulation on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part, as it is limited to a mere codification of the existing texts, and does not therefore contain any substantial changes to the original agreement.
in writing. ‒ the european union attaches great importance to simplifying and clarifying community legislation so that it is more understandable and accessible to citizens. this objective cannot be achieved as long as the innumerable provisions, which have been amended several times and often substantially, remain scattered, forcing those wishing to consult them to look for them both in the original act and in the amending acts. the purpose of this proposal is therefore to initiate the codification of council regulation (ec) no 140/2008 of 19 november 2007 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part, and the interim agreement between the european community, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part, without any substantial amendments. in the light of the above, i am voting in favour of the duda report because i believe that it is essential to codify the provisions which have been frequently amended if community legislation is to be clear and transparent.
in writing. ‒ according to the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question is merely a codification of existing texts, without any substantial changes. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on measures for the implementation of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european economic community and the republic of montenegro because, according to the opinion issued on 17/9/2014 by the consultative working party of the legal services of the ep, the ec, and the council, the proposal for a regulation is simply a codification of the existing texts, without any substantive changes.
in writing. i decided to vote against because it is a mere process of 'codification' of the texts, a formal procedure which does not introduce any change in substance, concerning a measure against which we confirm our position of opposition.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the text, which, although it does not change the substance of the text, is a measure against which i wish to confirm my firm opposition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i consider it very important to establish union tariff quotas for the products concerned.
in writing. - i voted against it. the proposal is for the approval of a mere codification process of the texts relating to a measure against which i confirm my opposition.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the need to codify regulation (ec) no 774/94 of 29 march 1994 on the management of certain community tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat (wheat) and germ-fed wheat and bran, germ products and other residues in the framework of international agreements. to successfully implement the lisbon strategy, it is essential to simplify and clarify the eu regulatory framework, especially for those provisions guaranteeing the nature, provenance and origin of products, in order to make it simpler and more stable. ensuring certainty of the law applicable to a given matter at a given time is an objective which cannot be achieved as long as the legislative provisions are amended several times. simplification requires not only a common method but also a common spirit. the institutions and the member states must therefore make the necessary effort to simplify the regulatory environment.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of the report by mr andrzej duda is only intended to formally codify council regulation (ec) no 774/94 of 29 march 1994 opening and providing for the administration of certain union tariff quotas for highquality beef and veal, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat (wheat) and germ-fed wheat and bran, germ products and other residues. it therefore does not contain any substantial changes to the original agreement.
in writing. ‒ the fact that regulation (ec) no 77/94 of 29 march 1994 laying down detailed rules for the application of the european union tariff quotas for quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, cereals, bran and germ-fed cereals is merely a codification without amending the text, i thought i should vote in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ i consider it very useful to codify regulation (ec) no 774/94 of 29 march 1994 opening and providing for the administration of certain union tariff quotas for highquality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat (wheat) and germ-fed wheat and bran, germ-free cereals and other residues. as this is a purely technical matter, linked to the codification of the existing 1994 text without any substantial changes, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation opening and providing for the administration of certain union tariff quotas and certain types of meat and fruit, as, as the advisory group has considered, this proposal is limited to a mere codification of existing texts without any significant changes.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns a proposal for the codification of eu law. it is a purely technical procedure, provided for in article 103 of the regulation, which is intended to verify that the proposal for codification is in fact merely a codification without any substantial changes. each proposal for codification is examined in advance by the legal services of the commission, the council and parliament. the conclusions of this evaluation are then sent to the legal affairs committee for validation and subsequent voting in plenary for final approval by parliament. in view of the favourable legal opinions in this respect, i vote in favour of the union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and rye and bran, bran and other residues.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is simply a codification of existing texts without any substantial changes. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the text even though this is only a process of 'codification' of the texts which does not introduce any substantive change, and therefore reiterate our position of opposition to the substance of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ on a subject of great interest to citizens such as food, transparency and simplification are two elements of extraordinary importance. the european parliament is voting to codify the existing texts on union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat, rye and bran, offal and other residues. this codification will make the rules more coherent and will make it easier and more immediate to consult and communicate them.
in writing. with the vote on mr duda's report, supported by the committee on legal affairs, we are taking another step towards the progressive harmonization of community rules on the internal market for the benefit of consumers and the main categories of producers. the opinion of the joint committee of the legal services of the three institutions allows us to proceed swiftly and carefully with the adoption of a measure of a technical nature, but extremely important for the development of the internal market. we now have new rules which can manage in a more integrated way certain union tariff quotas for important products such as premium beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the duda report, which aims to codify the regulation opening and providing for the administration of certain tariff quotas of the european union for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat, rye, bran and other residues. the proposal aims at codifying existing texts.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council opening and providing for the administration of certain union tariff and meat quotas. the question of the essential importance of effective management of foodstuffs which are safe for the european market and in accordance with the law and the relevant standards is raised again. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not distorted by the introduction of the single market. the objective of improving product quality, giving farmers confidence in future income prospects and encouraging more environmentally sustainable farming practices has long been a priority of the cap (common agricultural policy) and such a contribution increases the security of this market.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to codify the regulation opening and providing for the administration of certain union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat (wheat) and germ-fed wheat and bran, germ products and other residues. since the rapporteur's proposal is merely a simplification of existing texts, i have decided to welcome its content.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this proposal for a regulation opening and providing for the administration of certain union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat (wheat) and germ-fed wheat and bran, bran and other residues, as it is merely a codification of existing texts and does not therefore contain any substantial changes to the original agreement.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to start the codification of council regulation (ec) no 774/94 of 29 march 1994 opening and providing for the administration of certain union tariff quotas for highquality beef and veal, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat (wheat) and germ wheat and bran, germ products and other residues. as the rapporteur, mr duda, has confirmed to the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal is merely a codification of existing texts without any substantial changes to them, i have decided to welcome it. the codification of provisions which have been frequently amended over time is necessary if community legislation is to be fully consistent with the principles of clarity and transparency.
in writing. ‒ according to the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question is merely a codification of existing texts, without any substantial changes. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the rules for the administration of certain union tariff quotas and of premium beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and rye and bran, bran and other residues concerns a simple codification of existing texts, with reference also to the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission of 12/11/2014, and hence my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the text, which, although it does not change the substance of the text, is a measure against which i wish to confirm my firm opposition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i consider that the import of agricultural products from a neighbouring country such as turkey is very important for improvement of the competitiveness of the european market. but it should be well regulated.
in writing. - i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the need to codify council regulation (ec) no 779/98 of 7 april 1998 on the import into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey. codification should be carried out in full compliance with the timetable for the adoption of union legislation. it is essential to simplify and clarify the union regulatory framework in order to make it simpler, more stable and more predictable for businesses, workers and consumers, as it is necessary to adopt a single provision to lay down the specific implementing rules necessary for the implementation of the import arrangements for agricultural products originating in turkey. the legal certainty of the law applicable to a given matter at a given time cannot be achieved as long as the legal provisions are amended several times, so that they remain scattered. simplification requires not only a common method but also a common spirit. i therefore reiterate my vote in favour and call on the institutions and the member states to make the necessary effort to simplify the regulatory environment.
in writing. ‒ the opinion of the legal services of the three community institutions confirms that this vote is aimed at a mere codification of the existing texts, without any substantial changes. however, we will monitor further developments in order to protect the interests of our farmers.
in writing. ‒ the measure is merely a codification without substantial changes of the surveillance that the european union has provided for imports of agricultural products from turkey, seeking to safeguard and protect products in this sector of the community, particularly italian products. i therefore voted in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ with reference to regulation (ec) no 779/98, i appreciate the work of regulation and supervision by the union with regard to the importation into the community of agricultural products originating in turkey, because this is a better protection of italian products and interests in this sector. since the resolution merely codifies the 1998 regulation, and rightly so without making any substantial changes, i voted in favour of the new text.
in writing. ‒ mr president, the proposal in question was examined by the consultative group on 14 october 2014 and it was agreed that the proposal is a mere codification of the existing texts without any substantial changes. i therefore thought it appropriate to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns a proposal for the codification of eu law. it is a purely technical procedure, provided for in article 103 of the regulation, which is intended to verify that the proposal for codification is in fact merely a codification without any substantial changes. each proposal for codification is examined in advance by the legal services of the commission, the council and parliament. the conclusions of this evaluation are then sent to the legal affairs committee for validation and subsequent voting in plenary for final approval by parliament. in view of the favourable legal opinions on this matter, i am voting in favour of the report on the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is simply a codification of existing texts without any substantial changes. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the text even though this is only a process of 'codification' of the texts which does not introduce any substantive change, and therefore reiterate our position of opposition to the substance of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal as it represents a positive and necessary rationalization of the existing legislation on the european market for agricultural products originating in turkey.
in writing. a few minutes ago we voted on an important report analysing turkey's political progress in the accession negotiations with the european union. i shall not dwell on this report, which deserves further discussion and in-depth consideration and which i shall therefore deal with in a further statement, but i would like to stress my vote in favour of the measure by mr duda, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, which is to introduce more precise rules on the importation into the eu of agricultural products originating in turkey. the legal services of the three community institutions have also given their opinions, and we are merely codifying the existing texts without making any substantial changes, but it is a further step towards deeper trade integration with turkey, for the benefit of consumers and businesses.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by mr andrzej duda, as it aims to codify the regulation on the importation into the european union of agricultural products originating in turkey. the rapporteur, mr duda, has again proposed a technical approach which is limited to a codification of existing texts.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey. such codification increases the guarantee of clarity and immediate understanding of the provisions, thus contributing to more efficient work. it is important to bear in mind that the existence of the common agricultural policy (cap) makes it possible to have controlled and safer products for all citizens in the eu, and this is one of the most important community policies, taking up some 34% of the eu budget. an initiative which is designed to make a positive contribution to the food safety of important products must therefore be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to codify the regulation concerning the importation by the european union of agricultural products from turkey. since the rapporteur's proposal is limited to a mere codification of existing texts, i have decided to support it by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this proposal for a regulation on the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey, as it is limited to a mere codification of the existing texts, and does not therefore contain any substantial changes to the original agreement.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to initiate the codification of council regulation (ec) no 779/98 of 7 april 1998 on the import into the community of agricultural products originating in turkey, repealing regulation (eec) no 4115/86 and amending regulation (ec) no 3010/95. since the rapporteur's proposal is merely a codification of existing texts without any substantial changes to them, i thought it appropriate to support it by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, whereas, according to the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question is merely a codification of existing texts, without any substantial changes, for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the import into the european union of agricultural products originating in turkey because, according to the opinion of the legal services advisory group of 12/11/2014, it is a mere codification of existing texts, without any substantial changes.
in writing. i decided to vote against because it is a mere process of 'codification' of the texts, a formal procedure which does not introduce any change in substance, concerning a measure against which we confirm our position of opposition.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the text, which, although it does not change the substance of the text, is a measure against which i wish to confirm my firm opposition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i consider that the import of products from turkey is positive but must be well regulated and controlled regarding protection of the health of the european citizens.
in writing. ‒ it is the approval of a mere codification process, a formal procedure which does not introduce any change in substance, relating to a measure against which i confirm my opposition.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the need to codify regulation (ec) no 1506/98 of 13 july 1998 suspending certain concessions on the import into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey. ensuring legal certainty in a given area becomes a priority in order to successfully implement the lisbon strategy. it is therefore essential to simplify and clarify the eu regulatory environment, so as to make it simpler, more stable and more predictable for businesses, workers and, above all, consumers, in order to avoid many provisions remaining 'missing'. these objectives cannot be achieved as long as the regulatory provisions are amended several times, most recently by regulation (eu) no 255/2014 of 26 february 2014 amending council regulations (ec) no 2008/97, (ec) no 779/98 and regulation (ec) no 1506/98 concerning imports of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey as regards the delegated and implementing powers to be conferred on the commission. i would like to reiterate what i have said above and hope that all the institutions and the member states will make the necessary effort to simplify the regulatory environment.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the dossier is merely to codify the existing texts without introducing any substantial changes, but it does provide for the suspension of certain concessions on the importation into the european union of agricultural products from turkey, which i consider useful.
in writing. ‒ the measure merely codifies the 1998 regulation without making any substantial changes to the european community's requirement to suspend imports of agricultural products from turkey, but always without prejudice to any products subject to a specific import regime. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ with reference to regulation (ec) no 1506/98, i agree that the economic crisis has made it necessary to suspend certain concessions on the importation of agricultural products from turkey into the union, thereby providing greater protection for italian products in this sector, but always without prejudice to any products subject to a specific import regime. since the resolution is merely a codification of the 1998 regulation, which is already acceptable in itself, without any substantial changes, i voted in favour of the new text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation suspending certain concessions on the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey, as the consultative group reached the unanimous conclusion on 14 october that the proposal is merely a codification of existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns a proposal for the codification of eu law. it is a purely technical procedure, provided for in article 103 of the regulation, which is intended to verify that the proposal for codification is in fact merely a codification without any substantial changes. each proposal for codification is examined in advance by the legal services of the commission, the council and parliament. the conclusions of this evaluation are then sent to the legal affairs committee for validation and subsequent voting in plenary for final approval by parliament. in view of the favourable legal opinions on this matter, i am voting in favour of the report on the suspension of certain concessions on the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is simply a codification of existing texts without any substantial changes. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ as in the previous cases, i vote against the text, even though this is only a process of 'codification' of the texts which does not introduce any substantive change, and therefore reiterate our position of opposition to the substance of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ since this proposal is a consolidation supplementing the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey already voted on at this part-session and since it does not involve any substantial amendment to the proposal, i considered it right and proper to support it by voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by mr andrzej duda. the purpose of the proposal is to start codifying the regulation suspending certain concessions on the importation into the european union of agricultural products from turkey. the text approved today provides for the codification of existing texts and does not make any significant changes to its content.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council suspending certain concessions on the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey, because it codifies an ec regulation establishing a concession to turkey through a community tariff quota, even though the work is a codification and does not substantially change the text. i believe that adequate control is necessary to allow greater scope for control by the european authorities, especially to encourage compliance with all the eu rules relating to agricultural products which must only be allowed into our countries when they are safe for the citizens.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this proposal for a regulation suspending certain concessions on the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey, since it is merely a codification of existing texts and does not therefore contain any substantial changes to the original agreement.
in writing. ‒ the european union attaches great importance to the simplification and clarity of community legislation. however, this desire for clarity cannot be fully realised if the provisions which are subject to amendment remain divided into the original act and the amending acts. on the basis of its examination of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 1506/98 of 13 july 1998 establishing a concession for turkey in the form of a community tariff quota for hazelnuts in 1998 and suspending certain concessions, the consultative group has unanimously concluded that the proposal is limited to a mere codification of existing texts without any substantial changes. in view of the foregoing considerations, i voted in favour of the duda report, as i believe that it is essential to codify provisions which have been frequently amended over time, in the name of the desire to ensure the clarity and transparency of european legislation.
in writing. ‒ whereas, according to the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question is limited to a mere codification of existing texts without any substantial amendments, that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ following the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission of 12/11/2014, i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council suspending certain concessions on the import into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey, as it is a simple codification of existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. i decided to vote against because it is a mere process of 'codification' of the texts, a formal procedure which does not introduce any change in substance, concerning a measure against which we confirm our position of opposition.
in writing. ‒ the new commission has set the overall objective of the biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of living marine resources for fisheries in the mediterranean. this noble goal will be pursued with community regulations which will penalize our fisheries and which, however, in terms of control and sanctions, will not be fair or enforced by non-eu countries, causing differences in application and trade disadvantage. for these reasons i voted against the measure.
in writing. ‒ i voted yes since i retain important, for the correct development of the fishery market, a commission for the mediterranean to regulate fishery activity in a harmonized way.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the establishment of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean concludes a process of more than 50 years, which the eu joined in 1998 when it was still called the european community. it is an important agreement within the framework of the fao, and what we are adopting today is a formal act, but also a substantive one. a new way of thinking and living fisheries in the eu has been in place since 1 january 2014. the common fisheries policy has been reformed to ensure that marine resources are conserved and exploited in a sustainable way that is compatible with the protection of the ecosystem. the agreement just approved is in line with the efforts of this parliament to change the way people think about fishing. it enshrines and incorporates the principles on which the cfp is based, explicitly providing for the overall objective of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean to be the biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of living marine resources. the gfcm's functions also include the objective of maximum sustainable yield, the reduction of discards at sea and the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. ‒ the new commission sets itself the general objective of the biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of marine living resources for fisheries in the mediterranean, but will do so on the basis of community regulations which penalise our fisheries and which, in terms of control and sanctions, are not enforced by non-eu countries, causing differences in application and trade disadvantage. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the acceptance, on behalf of the european union, of the amended agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. the amended agreement revises the structure and content of the current agreement to bring it into line with the modern instruments of the regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo). the main changes are as follows: a clearer explanation of the objectives of the agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm); better definition of the functions of the gfcm; provisions for the imposition of measures or sanctions in case of non-compliance by members/non-members; the establishment of a well-defined dispute settlement mechanism in the event of conflicts between the contracting parties.
in writing. ‒ the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean is a regional fisheries management organisation whose purpose is to promote the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea. i voted in favour because i believe that the conservation and sustainable exploitation of marine living resources in the mediterranean and the black sea are of paramount importance. in addition, sanctions are now provided for in the event of non-compliance by members/non-members.
in writing. ‒ the measure we have examined promotes the protection of both the proper exploitation and development of marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea. the conviction that marine ecosystems must be protected so that they can play an increasingly important role in the growth of the so-called blue areas, also identifying a sustainable growth and to be taken into account in view of my island background. the provisions for the institution of measures or sanctions in case of non-compliance by members/non-members are also welcome. these considerations have led me to vote in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it promotes the development and proper exploitation of the living marine resources of the mediterranean and the black sea. i am convinced that the conservation of marine resources living in the area of application, as well as the protection of marine ecosystems, play an important role in the context of blue growth and sustainable development. i particularly appreciated the provisions in the resolution for the introduction of measures or sanctions in the event of non-compliance by members.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the acceptance by the european union of the amended agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), which aims to promote the conservation, development, common and rational management of fisheries and the optimum use of fishery resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea. i support the overall objectives of the european union for the biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of marine resources. only through a more transparent fisheries policy, good governance and the cooperation of specialised bodies will it be possible to meet the demand from the european market while ensuring the protection of the ecosystem and intensifying the fight against illegal fishing.
in writing. ‒ the gfcm is a so-called regional fisheries management organisation whose purpose is to promote the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea. the objectives, general principles and functions of the gfcm have been revised and extended in order to ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and their environment. i vote in favour of safeguarding the common good of the sea.
in writing. ‒ industrial fishing is one of the most significant threats to commercial species and those caught by non-selective fishing methods and gear. despite international commitments, both major fish stocks and populations of protected species continue to be threatened by fishing. the impact of industrial fishing on marine habitats and species is even more evident and dangerous in the mediterranean sea, where, in addition to the numerous fleets of the coastal countries, farm vessels from asian countries arrive, taking advantage of the absence of exclusive economic zones (eez) in the basin and the wide availability of international waters. the measure tabled in plenary concerned the amendment of the statute of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) with the identification of a clearer general objective of biological and environmental sustainability of marine resources, the creation of fishing restriction zones, provisions for the establishment of sanctions in case of non-compliance by members/non-members and the creation of a dispute settlement mechanism in case of conflicts between contracting parties. these decisions provide more effective instruments for better control of fishing activities in the mediterranean sea, which is why i voted in favour of their adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced that the amendments to the agreement can promote the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of marine resources in the mediterranean.
in writing. ‒ i am refraining from giving a favourable opinion on the agreement given the failure of the common fisheries policy to date. the new proposal, however, is a step forward, as it has the general objective of the biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of marine living resources for fisheries in the mediterranean.
in writing. ‒ the review of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean, which started in 2013, clarifies its objectives and functions, improves its effectiveness and brings it into line with the modern tools of the regional fisheries management organisations. for these reasons i voted in favour of the resolution on the acceptance, on behalf of the european union, of the amended agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean.
in writing. a number of important studies carried out in 2011 highlighted the need for a thorough review of the agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), which the european community joined in 1998: the aim of this cooperation framework is to reinvigorate its purpose and effectiveness by providing greater clarity of objectives and functions and by making appropriate adjustments to the modern instruments of regional fisheries management organisations. that is why i supported and voted in favour of the amendments to the agreement which my colleagues in the committee on fisheries have introduced. i therefore agree with the principles underlying the amendment of the agreement: the commission will also be proposing to improve and optimise the exploitation of the living marine resources of the mediterranean, to ensure careful protection of marine ecosystems, to draw up multiannual management plans for common fisheries, to set maximum sustainable yield targets and to provide for the possibility of applying sanctions where member states deviate from the new rules of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the draft council decision on the acceptance, on behalf of the european union, of the amended agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), because i am convinced of the need to adapt the 1952 agreement to the changes brought about by the treaty of lisbon, in order to modernise the structure of this commission and, above all, to strengthen its role in the conservation of resources in the mediterranean fishing areas, to extend its functions with a view to ensuring the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of marine resources and the marine living environment as a whole. i welcomed the extension of the functions of the said commission to include the adoption of multiannual management plans applied in all sub-regions of the geographical area of competence (mediterranean sea and black sea), in accordance with ecosystem support to fisheries, to ensure the maintenance of stocks above levels capable of producing the maximum sustainable yield, in line with national plans, together with the establishment of fishing restricted areas to protect vulnerable ecosystems, including nurseries and breeding areas.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report as it recommends the approval of the conclusion of the amended agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. the rational management of marine resources and the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea are among the european union's priorities for protecting the integrity of the marine heritage, and i therefore support mr mato's proposal. the new agreement complements the basic elements of the common fisheries policy as regards: the objective of maximum sustainable yield, the ecosystem and precautionary approach, the reduction of discards at sea and the fight against illegal fishing, the modification of measures or sanctions in case of non-compliance by members/non-members.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this recommendation on the draft council decision on the acceptance, on behalf of the european union, of the amended agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. it is of great importance to work towards achieving a sustainable level of integration of fishing modes, respecting european standards and combating phenomena such as iuu (illegal, unreported, unregulated), where the impact of dumping is still too great. in addition, action on discards at sea, together with more effective forecasting of penalties, can improve the quality and promote development, as well as the rational management and optimal use of living marine resources. we support sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ the conservation and rational management of living marine resources and the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea are priorities for the european union in its efforts to protect the integrity of the natural heritage. for these reasons i have decided to support, with a favourable vote, the mato report, which recommends the approval of the conclusion of the amended agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean.
in writing. ‒ the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) is a so-called regional fisheries management organisation whose purpose is to promote the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea. we welcome an amendment to the agreement of may 2014, which finally provides for a more detailed indication of its aims, a better definition of its functions, greater legal clarity as regards the possible use of a system of sanctions and, finally, the creation of a well-defined dispute settlement mechanism in the event of conflicts between the contracting parties. we cannot ignore the mutual interest in the development and proper exploitation of marine resources and the need to protect marine ecosystems that are increasingly sustainable.
in writing. ‒ the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) is a regional organisation that promotes the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of marine living resources in the mediterranean and the black sea. taking into account the mutual interest in the development and proper exploitation of living marine resources, an amendment to the gfcm agreement has been undertaken since 2013 in order to clarify its objectives and functions and to enhance its effectiveness. in the light of the foregoing and convinced that the conservation and sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and the protection of the marine ecosystems in which these resources are present play an important role in the context of sustainable growth and development, i voted in favour of the report by mr mato calling for parliament's approval of this amended agreement.
in writing. ‒ the amended agreement revises the structure and content of the current agreement to bring it into line with modern rfmo instruments. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the protection of the mediterranean must be a priority for europe so that we can guarantee the vastness of its resources for future generations. the conservation of these resources can be made even more effective by making some necessary changes to the agreement on the establishment of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. the amendments voted today will allow for a better definition of some of the specific functions of the commission in order to achieve objectives which are important for the member states, such as the introduction of multiannual plans for the common management of fisheries, through the creation of restricted zones. this will help to achieve sustainable, eco-systematic and precautionary exploitation of the mediterranean, reducing the release of waste at sea and implementing a more concrete fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. these objectives may also be achieved through the use of the sanctions measures provided for in the agreement and the establishment of a dispute settlement mechanism between the parties.
in writing. ‒ as we know, the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) aims to promote the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea. it is right that the agreement should be amended and updated over the years, also to better identify the functions of the cgpm and to legitimize the powers attributed to it. in this case, the amended agreement correctly refers to the new instruments of the regional fisheries management organisation. i believe that the amendments made are relevant, such as the establishment of the general objective of the committee, which falls within the scope of environmental biological sustainability of living marine resources and a clearer definition of the functions of the committee with the creation of multiannual management plans for the common fisheries management, the right to provide for sanctions in case of non-compliance by member states and, in case of conflict between members, the creation of a mechanism for their composition.
in writing. i decided to abstain because the new commission is committed to the overall objective of biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of marine living resources for fisheries in the mediterranean, but will do so on the basis of community regulations which penalise our fisheries and which, however, in terms of control and related sanctions, are not enforced by non-eu countries, causing differences in application and a commercial disadvantage.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote, we have decided to give our consent to the conclusion by the european council of the amended agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm). the amended agreement, which revises the structure and content of the current agreement to bring it into line with the modern instruments of the rfmos, will allow for a clearer definition of the objectives and functions of the gfcm in order to enhance its effectiveness. i am also confident that the new provisions for the introduction of measures or sanctions in the event of non-compliance by members and non-members, as well as the establishment of a well-defined dispute settlement mechanism in the event of conflicts between the contracting parties, will play an important role in ensuring the proper protection and the balanced and sustainable exploitation of the marine resources of the mediterranean and black seas.
in writing. - i voted to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr zagorakis' parliamentary immunity following a request by the deputy prosecutor of the greek supreme court. zakorakis is accused of causing bodily injury and of failing to comply with safety requirements at the workplace, which have nothing to do with his position as a member of the european parliament. the procedure was also initiated earlier at the beginning of the mandate. the case relates to an accident at work in 2010 involving an employee of paok football club in the stadium of the club in thessaloniki, of which zagorakis is president and legal representative.
in writing. ‒ the measure relates to the request by the public prosecutor's office of the hellenic republic for the european parliament to waive the european immunity of mep theodoros zagorakis. i have read the documents and have seen that the alleged offence in question is outside the scope of parliamentary duties and therefore affects the personal sphere of a private citizen, in contravention of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of members of the european parliament. i therefore voted in favour of the motion because i do not think there is a fumus persecutionis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr zagorakis' immunity because the fact under consideration, namely the alleged offence of causing bodily harm on 13 may 2010 to an employee of the paok football club in thessaloniki, has no connection with his position as a member of the european parliament. on the contrary, the ongoing criminal proceedings, which started a few years before the start of the mandate, are related to the position of mr zagorakis as president and legal representative of the club.
in writing. ‒ following the request of the deputy prosecutor of the supreme court of greece of 19 december 2014, the rapporteur evelyn regner asks the parliament to lift the parliamentary immunity of the member of parliament theodoros zagorakis (epp). the request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity is part of a criminal investigation in which mr zakorakis is accused of causing bodily injury and of failing to comply with safety requirements at the workplace. the investigation relates to an accident at work, which occurred on 13 may 2010, to an employee of paok football club in the club's stadium in thessaloniki and charged to zagorakis as the president and legal representative of the club. the alleged offence clearly has no connection with zagorakis' position as an mep but is connected only with his position as president of paok football club. moreover, there is no reason to assume that the proceedings could affect the political activity of the member, as they were initiated several years before the member's term of office began. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity and the normal trial of mr zakorakis.
in writing. i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr theodoros zagorakis. the instrument of parliamentary immunity is intended to protect and preserve the member in the exercise of his duties, allowing him to carry out his mandate without conditions and in full freedom, but such considerations are obviously not relevant in cases such as the present one, where the contested acts and the reasons for the same challenge do not fall within the activities inherent in the parliamentary mandate or the function of a member.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the request for parliamentary immunity of mr theodoros zagorakis in the context of a possible investigation into an alleged offence, whereas the principle underlying parliamentary immunity, as provided for in article 8 of the protocol, consists in the freedom of members of parliament to express themselves on behalf of their electors on matters of public interest, to make their views freely known without being liable to be sued before a court or other authority, whereas the alleged offence has no connection with the position of theodoros zagorakis as a member of the european parliament, but rather with his position as president of paok football club; that there is no reason to believe that the proceedings are based on the intention to prejudice the political activity of the member (fumus persecutionis), as they were initiated several years before the member's term of office began, i am in favour of the waiver of immunity
in writing. ‒ the deputy prosecutor of the greek supreme court has requested the waiver of the immunity of theodoros zagorakis, member of the european parliament, in the context of an investigation into an alleged offence. i am aware that mr theodoros zagorakis is accused of causing bodily injury and of failing to comply with the requirements of safety at work, and i am aware that parliamentary immunity applies only in cases where an opinion or vote is expressed in the exercise of the office of a member of the european parliament, so i have decided to support the regner report.
in writing. ‒ the supreme court of greece has requested the waiver of the immunity of mr zagorakis, member of the european parliament, accused of causing bodily injury and failing to comply with safety requirements at the workplace. the criminal case concerns an injury to an employee of paok football club, which is charged to zagorakis as the club's president and lawyer. in accordance with article 9 of protocol no 7 on eu privileges and immunities, members of the european parliament enjoy the same immunities on the national territory as members of their own country and, in accordance with article 62 of the greek constitution, a member may not be subject to criminal prosecution, arrest or detention during his or her term of office without the consent of parliament. in the light of the foregoing, i have supported mr regner's request to waive immunity, since the alleged offence has no connection with mr zagorakis's position as a member of the european parliament. he is therefore responsible for the repression of the civilian population in the northern part of the drc. moreover, there is no reason to assume that the proceedings are based on the intention to prejudice the political activity of the member (fumus persecutionis), as they were initiated several years before the beginning of the european mandate.
in writing. ‒ the deputy prosecutor of the supreme court of greece has requested the waiver of the immunity of theodoros zagorakis, member of the european parliament, in the context of a possible investigation into an alleged offence. the alleged offence clearly has no connection with the position of theodoros zagorakis as a member of the european parliament. there is no reason to assume that the proceedings are based on the intention to prejudice the political activity of the member (fumus persecutionis), as they were initiated several years before the member's term of office began. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in giving my consent to the waiver of the immunity of theodoros zagorakis, i have followed closely the report of the european parliament's legal affairs committee. the offence of which theodoros zagorakis is accused predates his election as a member of the european parliament, specifically concerns events that occurred in 2010 and relates to his position as president of the football club paok. the criminal proceedings for this offence do not concern any act related to the exercise of the mandate of theodoros zagorakis as a member of the european parliament and were initiated years before the beginning of his mandate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ mr stanishev, former bulgarian prime minister, was accused of having lost documents containing information considered to be state secrets under bulgarian law during his term of office (between 2005 and 2007). the documents were not transmitted in accordance with the applicable legislation as the transfer was not entered in the register of classified information of the council of ministers. the resulting administrative criminal proceedings have been interrupted several times since the honourable member took office, and i therefore voted to waive his immunity to allow them to be completed.
in writing. ‒ the measure relates to the request by the prosecutor's office of the republic of bulgaria for the european parliament to waive the european immunity of mr sergei stanishev. i have read the documents and have seen that the alleged offence in question is outside the scope of parliamentary duties and therefore affects the personal sphere of a private citizen, in contravention of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of members of the european parliament. i therefore voted in favour of the motion because i do not think there is a fumus persecutionis.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur, andrzej duda, calls on the european parliament to lift the parliamentary immunity of bulgarian mep sergei stanishev (s&d) following the request of the chief prosecutor of bulgaria of 24 november 2014. the request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity is part of a criminal investigation into stanisev's disclosure of information covered by the state secret entrusted to him when he was prime minister of the republic of bulgaria. on the basis of the facts and circumstances described and the evidence gathered in the case, sergei stanishev is accused of having lost the above-mentioned documents, i.e. of having inadvertently lost control of them for non-compliance with the procedures for safekeeping, transfer and circulation of documents defined in the relevant implementing rules and in the internal rules of the council of ministers for the processing of classified information. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sensitive products. there are therefore no grounds for opposing this and i am voting in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr sergei stanishev.
in writing. ‒ with regard to the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of sergei stanishev, considering the nature of the matter, i am in favour of a waiver of the immunity. what happened in this particular case is not a matter of duties or opinions connected with the office of member of the european parliament and therefore excludes the possibility of article 8 of the protocol being applicable. furthermore, parliament found no evidence of fumus persecutionis, i.e. a sufficiently well-founded and precise suspicion that the action was aimed at causing political damage to the member.
in writing. ‒ mr sergei stanishev has been accused of having lost, in the course of his duties as prime minister of the republic of bulgaria, seven documents containing information considered to be state secrets between 4 november 2005 and 27 july 2009. specifically, mr stanishev is alleged to have forwarded these documents in violation of the rules in force. given that the alleged offence in question is not directly connected with the performance of sergei stanishev's duties as a member of the european parliament and does not concern an opinion or a vote expressed in the exercise of his parliamentary prerogatives, i have decided to support the duda report, which calls for the waiver of his immunity.
in writing. ‒ sergei stanishev is accused of having lost, in the exercise of his functions as prime minister of the republic of bulgaria, seven documents containing information considered to be state secrets. this behaviour constitutes an offence punishable under article 358 (1) of the bulgarian criminal code. in accordance with article 9 of protocol no 7 on eu privileges and immunities, members of the european parliament enjoy the same immunities on their national territory as members of their country and, in accordance with article 70 of the bulgarian constitution, a member may not be subject to criminal prosecution, arrest or detention during the course of a parliamentary term without the consent of the parliament. in the light of the above, i have decided to support mr duda's request as the alleged offence has no connection with mr stanishev's position as a member of the european parliament. the crime is linked to his previous position as prime minister. moreover, there is no reason to assume that the proceedings are based on the intention to prejudice the political activity of the member (fumus persecutionis), as they were initiated several years before the beginning of the european mandate.
in writing. ‒ whereas the chief prosecutor of the republic of bulgaria has forwarded the request of the sofia city prosecutor's office to allow the prosecution of sergei stanishev for an offence under article 358 (1) in conjunction with article 26 (1) of the bulgarian criminal code; that the alleged offence in question has no direct or obvious connection with the performance of the duties of sergei stanishev as a member of the european parliament and does not concern an opinion or vote expressed in the performance of his parliamentary duties in accordance with article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union; i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the investigation, but that it should be involved in the investigation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of immunity in this case as well, because the inquiry against sergei stanishev was opened well before he began his term as a member of the european parliament and it cannot be linked to his position as a member of the european parliament. the accusation relates to a period prior to his election as an mep, when sergei stanishev was serving as prime minister of bulgaria. at that time, sergei stanishev had sent the president of the national assembly two written statements in which he gave his consent to the initiation of criminal proceedings against him in accordance with the provisions of the constitution of the republic of bulgaria.
in writing. ‒ although it contains passages that are acceptable, such as those that go into the problems of smes, the report on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2016 budget is still problematic and i did not support it for that reason. an example of all: i do not share in any way the uncritical enthusiasm of the text for commissioner katainen's strategic investment plan which will end up draining important resources from other programmes already in place and under way, such as horizon 2020.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i agree with the guidelines established for the 2016 budget
in writing. - i voted against it. i remain sceptical about many passages in the text. i do not agree with the positive references to the investment plan presented by commissioner katainen which drains resources from important programmes already in existence and funded by horizon 2020. the solidarity criteria set out in the text are not well defined. the work of the high level group on resources chaired by mario monti, whose aim is to identify future sources of eu funding, is also important.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the 2016 budgetary guidelines which underlines that the eu's budgetary priorities for next year should be to promote growth, support job creation, enterprise and entrepreneurship, show solidarity with countries inside and outside the european union, put the eu's finances in order, tackle arrears and finally reform the eu's resources system. the eu must promote employment, strengthen the skills of our citizens, support businesses, especially smes, and encourage entrepreneurship across the eu. the 2016 budget must have a tangible positive impact on the lives of citizens. as regards the european youth initiative which has the potential to break the negative cycle of youth unemployment, i ask the commission to examine the causes of the slow start of the initiative in the member states and to ensure its funding beyond 2015 and especially in 2016.
in writing. ‒ employment and support for small and medium-sized enterprises are of paramount importance, and the eu budget is itself an important investment instrument. but we do not see any concrete commitments to this effect in the text before us, and they risk being left as a dead letter. it does not seem that the expressed desire to solve problems which have accumulated over time - such as the problem of unpaid invoices at the end of the year, the question of the budgetary entry of the special instruments of the five-year framework programme and the delay in the implementation of the new operational programmes under cohesion policy - is accompanied by the identification of instruments capable of achieving concrete results. the junker plan seems to be of central importance, given the lack of a clear and defined coverage and, in any case, to the detriment of concrete investment programmes such as those in research, transport and smes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this measure because the european union, with this budget, has played a central role in reducing the disparities between european regions by encouraging and guaranteeing investment where it is most needed, and by trying to channel the results to make life easier for the citizens of the member states by encouraging the development of businesses with the prospect of creating new jobs.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the eu budget plays a crucial role in bringing us closer to the eu's objectives, in particular in reducing disparities between european regions and in making investments in areas where there is a greater need. for these reasons, the budget has a tangible positive impact on the lives of citizens. i voted in favour of the resolution because i found, in the lines, that there was a strong emphasis on job creation and business development.
in writing. ‒ the eu budget is not only an instrument of external solidarity, as it helps to bring emergency aid to countries affected by humanitarian crises, but also aims to support the economic, social and territorial cohesion of all member states. the european structural and investment funds, which make up the bulk of the budget, are essential to create jobs first, especially for young people who are suffering from high unemployment, and to boost growth and strengthen the competitiveness and innovation of the more than 20 million smes that make up the european business fabric. i fully agree with mr fernandes that we must finally and unequivocally solve the various problems that have accumulated in recent years, namely the recurrent problem of unpaid invoices and their impact on citizens and local authorities, as well as on the implementation of programmes and funds. i hope that the interinstitutional meeting scheduled for 25 march will take stock of the situation before proceeding to draw up the draft budget for 2016, which will have to be based on forecasts and real needs in order to achieve objectives and ambitions for the benefit of all the member states.
in writing. ‒ this is the first step in the budgetary procedure, which sets out, in a general way, the priorities of the european budget for the year 2016. the text is therefore full of good intentions and ideas that can be widely shared, including support for innovation and research, smes and green growth. there is also a reference to the problem of payments, although no concrete solutions are proposed to solve the problem. this year there is also a reference to the relationship between the european budget and the investment plan proposed by juncker. the report largely highlights only the positive aspects of the project, but does not mention the critical issues, such as the fact that the efsi guarantee funds are drawn from important and priority programmes such as horizon 2020 and the cef, without highlighting the risk of potential losses of these funds and an aggravation of the already difficult payment situation. m5s had tabled amendments to amend in particular the part concerning the relationship with the efsi. our proposals were rejected in the committee responsible, receiving only the support of the gue, the greens and part of the ecr. the socialist-liberal bloc was solid, and there was broad agreement on the final vote. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ the eu budget is the only item for investments and for financing programmes and projects that would not otherwise be possible. it provides for strategic investments that reduce inequalities in development and macroeconomic data. that's the theory. in practice, we are faced with the continuation of a phenomenon which is harmful to local economies, such as the exponential growth of the differential between commitments and payments. the budget can only return to an active and positive role if a realignment is restored and if all previous amounts are paid off. the member states are therefore responsible for the difficulties encountered in implementing programmes and funds, with the european citizens, both the beneficiaries and the companies, being the first to suffer. the 2014 budget was a record year for unpaid invoices, which could pale in the face of the risk that, coinciding with the end of the 2007-2013 programming period, there would be an unprecedented surge in payment requests. the risk of work and programmes being blocked is very high and the solution cannot be - as is also assumed - the untying of sums, but their rationalisation towards segments that guarantee absorption and positive results.
in writing. ‒ while welcoming and sharing the good intentions that this text seems to promote, i can only express my negative vote, having noted some typical inconsistencies between what is set as the objective and the roads that are then chosen to reach it; if, for example, we show sensitivity and concern about issues such as the green economy, support for unemployment and small and medium-sized enterprises, how can we then take as much as eur 16 billion from programmes such as horizon 2020 and the cef to finance juncker's investment plan for europe? these are programmes that can or could actually help many european citizens in those areas which the european commission itself declares to be fundamental in its guidelines for the 2016 budget, in fact we are talking about research and support for small and medium-sized enterprises in one case and the implementation of physical and digital infrastructures for the cef, but which are now being significantly damaged.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because we do not share the positive references to the investment plan presented by commissioner katainen (european fund for strategic investments) which, to give just one example, is draining resources from important existing programmes and financed as horizon 2020.
in writing. ‒ the resolution adopted by the european parliament today represents an important and positive starting point for the outline of the eu's budgetary policies for 2016. we have asked the commission to give priority to measures to promote growth, job creation, support for enterprises (especially smes) by means of arrears payments and reform of the eu's resources system. we also took the opportunity to reiterate that the eu is based on principles of cohesion and solidarity which require all eu countries to share equally the responsibilities arising from the phenomenon of immigration, which will have to be shared by all eu countries and not just by those directly affected such as italy. there's no more time and no more excuses: the 2016 budget will have to be the engine of economic recovery for the whole of the european union. with today's vote we have taken a first step in this direction, and we will continue to work and watch for the commission's proposal next may and the subsequent steps in the council and in parliament.
in writing. i thank mr fernandes for his important report on the 2016 budgetary guidelines. i think it is a courageous report, which defends the prerogatives of parliament by reiterating some essential political issues which have not yet been resolved in the interinstitutional budgetary report. i therefore express my support for the report, and i would particularly like to stress certain points which i believe are of some political importance. i agree with mr fernandes' view: the eu budget will not be able to achieve its full potential unless the various problems that have accumulated in recent years and which, unfortunately, dominated the budget negotiations last year, are finally and unequivocally resolved. i am referring in particular to the recurring problem of unpaid invoices at the end of the year and the delay in implementing the new operational programmes under cohesion policy. it is right, as the report does, to ask that 2015 be the deadline for finding concrete and sustainable solutions to these outstanding problems. i find it truly sobering that at the end of 2014 the level of deferred payments reached an unprecedented €24.7 billion for the 2007-2013 cohesion programmes alone: it is a debt that undermines the eu's credibility and is contrary to the eu's objectives for growth and jobs.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by mr josé manuel fernandes on the guidelines for the general budget of the eu for 2016. in view of the forthcoming adoption of the draft budget by the european commission, parliament wanted to indicate the priorities to be taken into account in the decision on appropriations. the report calls for strong support for the employment recovery in the eu, the growth of our economy, the development of enterprise and the revival of the entrepreneurial sector, without damaging the historical community policies and solidarity between member states. the report by mr fernandes therefore focuses on strategic issues and the added value of the european budget, which the european commission will have to take into account when presenting the 2016 db.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on guidelines for the preparation of the 2006 budget, section iii. one of the first things to start with is job creation and youth employment. the reality of work also leads to talk about smes, a very important dimension considering the presence of more than 20 million smes in europe, representing 99% of the total. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. i would also like to stress the importance of combating tax fraud, given the negative impact on the economies of the member states: the european union is also committed to building a stronger europe, one that is ready to face new challenges.
in writing. ‒ job creation, business development and the revival of the sector are key challenges for the european union. i have therefore decided to support the fernandes report, which is focused on achieving these objectives.
in writing. ‒ the eu budget represents added value in terms of job creation and business development. many community programmes (horizon 2020, cosme, erasmus+, youth employment initiative) directly contribute to the achievement of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth; we therefore ask the commission to put them at the centre of the draft budget for 2016 in order to ensure that they are provided with the necessary resources. we are concerned about the forthcoming funding of the youth employment initiative and we are asking for the causes of the delays in the use of this fund to be ascertained. we underline the importance of cross-border mobility in enabling europe to benefit from the diversity of people's professional skills, while expanding training and employment opportunities for all generations. we welcome the juncker plan as a first step to mobilise resources for infrastructure, education and research in order to make up for the shortfall in public and private investment caused by the economic and financial crisis. we reiterate our position in favour of a thorough reform of the eu's own resources system, which has shortcomings which could hamper budgetary negotiations, taking as a basis for discussion the 'first evaluation report' of the high level group chaired by mario monti.
in writing. ‒ the eu budget is a highly leveraged investment prospectus that acts as a catalyst for growth, competitiveness and employment across the union. it facilitates the implementation of programmes and projects that would otherwise be difficult or impossible to realise and ensures strategic investment in works with european added value, pooling resources and enabling economies of scale. considering that the eu budget has a tangible positive impact on the lives of citizens and, given the persistent economic and budgetary constraints at national level, plays a key role in promoting competitiveness and strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion in the union, i have decided to support the report as it identifies job creation, business development and entrepreneurship as priorities for the coming year.
in writing. ‒ the eu budget is primarily an investment budget that acts as a catalyst for growth, competitiveness and employment across the union and facilitates the implementation of programmes and projects that would otherwise be difficult or impossible to implement, allowing for economies of scale. this budget plays a crucial role in reducing disparities between european regions and ensuring that investment is made in areas where it is most needed. finally, the eu budget plays a key role in promoting competitiveness and strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion in the union. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i naturally supported mr fernandes' report because i believe that a qualitative leap is needed on the eu budget. the budgetary approval procedure, and above all the question of own resources, are issues which must be tackled quickly if we are to really highlight the added value of the european budget and make europe 'walk alone'. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new financial perspective and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new financial perspective. particular attention will have to be paid to the youth employment initiative, whose funding will have to be secured. another issue that will need to be urgently addressed by the commission is the unresolved issue of the accumulation of arrears which particularly affects the implementation of cohesion policy, which is already suffering from delays in the start of the new programming period 2014-2020. we therefore expect an ambitious budget proposal and above all a constructive approach from the council so as to make european policies really effective.
in writing. ‒ the eu budget is one of the key tools for business development, job creation and sustainable and inclusive growth in the eu, as it is more of a leveraged investment budget that stimulates the various sectors of the economy. to this end, the commission must take account of the eu's political and economic priorities when drawing up the budget and ensure that the relevant eu programmes and actions are endowed with the resources necessary to achieve the objectives set. it is important to recall that the 2016 budget corresponds to the first year of the implementation of the provisions of the new multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 and will serve as a benchmark for the review and revision of the mff. i also think it is important, as the report rightly states, that the implementation of the main eu programmes be continuously monitored during the current budgetary procedure.
in writing. i decided to vote against because i am very sceptical about some of the passages in the text: i do not agree with the positive references to the investment plan presented by commissioner katainen (european fund for strategic investments) which, moreover, drains resources from important already existing and funded programmes such as horizon 2020; the solidarity criteria indicated in the text are not well defined; the work of the high level group on own resources chaired by mario monti, whose aim is to identify new taxes or levies to finance the union's policies, is important.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote, parliament once again calls on the european union to promote employment, strengthen the skills of our citizens, support businesses, in particular smes, and encourage entrepreneurship in all 28 member states. the 2016 budget must have a tangible positive impact on the lives of citizens.
in writing. we have been saying the same good intentions for years: support for employment and small and medium-sized enterprises. but the results are hard to come by: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the eu's external relations. this year, a new element is added: the juncker plan. two years ago we saw the negotiations on the mff which reduced the eu budget, as requested by the member states, and now we are looking for a way to review the decisions that have just been taken. the investment plan should use as a guarantee part of the funds earmarked for research and transport, which should be key elements for the european economic recovery, demonstrating how in reality there is no organic and structural vision for the economic growth of all member states. my vote against is a condemnation of the schizophrenia of the european budget, which should be a key element of a project but which has in fact become a mere pretext for a european union which must be rethought.
i supported this report because i consider the protection of the european union's financial interests to be an important issue. we have also made great progress in the czech republic in introducing directly into the criminal law the factual nature of damage to the financial interests of the european union and in enforcing the criminal liability of legal persons. this requires cooperation between the european union institutions and the national states, and let's say justice at the national level. the report gives a very good overview of how olaf's work is being improved. i welcome the fact that olaf is detecting more and more possible misuse of european union funds. it is necessary not only to communicate this information, but also to assess whether it constitutes a criminal offence and, where appropriate, to issue clear final judgments in the event of a criminal offence. it is also good that the commission's tasks are clearly set out. i support the report and consider it an important matter in terms of the credibility of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the figures we have seen show that the number of irregularities in 2013 has increased by as much as 17% compared with last year, and what is most worrying is that the main victim of these infringements is cohesion policy. in short, these are funds that are being taken directly from the growth and development of our territories and the well-being of our citizens. it is true that not all the infringements recorded, and indeed many of them, are fraudulent. in the case of cohesion in particular, irregularities are due to a lack of knowledge of the rules and complicated procedures. i therefore strongly urge that the perpetrators of such fraud be strictly prosecuted and that non-fraudulent offences be combated ex ante, by simplifying rules and procedures and by training all those involved in the management and use of cohesion policy funds. it is often this lack of resources which prevents the use of the funds themselves.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls on the european institutions to cooperate more closely and more effectively with national authorities in combating and preventing fraud against european taxpayers and which also calls on the commission to re-establish interruptions and suspensions of payments in order to prevent irregularities and the risk of errors in the correct use of eu funds.
in writing. ‒ i chose to vote in favour of this report since i agree with its findings and conclusions. furthermore i strongly believe that the fight against fraud in the european union is of paramount importance for protecting our financial interests.
in writing. - i voted yes. the text provides a comprehensive analysis of the case-law in the year in question and calls for greater and better cooperation between the european institutions and the member states to protect the eu's financial interests.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the 2013 annual report on the protection of the european union's financial interests, the main point of which is the fight against fraud. the fight against fraud must be a priority of the political action of the community and national institutions, together with the fight against money laundering and corruption. the data on the persistence of these genuine "diseases of the system" are alarming. it is a moral, legal and social defeat that they, in all their nuances, from the violation of the rules by mere irregularity to criminal offenses, still afflict and permeate the european system. i am convinced that there is still a need for a united front in the structures and the institutions, and i therefore hope that measures will be taken to further harmonize the approaches and legislation applied in the various member states. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to use the funds allocated to the fund for the purpose of the implementation of the community's financial instruments.
in writing. ‒ intervening to prevent fraud, and therefore misuse of public funds, is certainly a priority, but to achieve this, proactive collaboration is needed between member states to which the resolution addresses a call to this effect and the commission, which is asked to investigate the reasons behind the high number of fraud in certain states. the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office, which is responsible for the protection of the financial interests of the union, can indeed help in this respect, since the cumbersome judicial mechanisms of the state can no longer be an obstacle. the resolution calls for positive synergy between the actors involved, in addition to those already mentioned, in particular olaf (the european office currently responsible for detecting fraud against the union). the resolution calls in particular for action to be taken against fraud relating to the structural funds and the european social fund, which are the easiest targets for the diversion of public money and should instead be a real resource for citizens.
in writing. ‒ i thought i would vote in favour of this measure because i consider the direction the commission wants to take with the two criminal law instruments, the pif directive and the regulation establishing the european public prosecutor's office (ep regulation), to be important, as they guarantee more effective investigations and better protection of taxpayers' money throughout the european area of freedom, security and justice. i am convinced that the fight against fraud, corruption and money laundering within the european union must be a political and institutional priority requiring cooperation between the judiciary and the law enforcement agencies. all this to increase citizens' confidence by ensuring that their money is used in a transparent manner, in full respect of the objectives and policies of the european union and the interests of eu citizens
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i am convinced that the fight against fraud, corruption and money laundering within the european union must be a political and institutional priority, requiring the cooperation of the judiciary and the law enforcement agencies. i believe that this commitment can increase the confidence of citizens by ensuring that their money is used in a transparent manner, in full respect of the policies of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because it is necessary that all ms make every effort to combat fraud, corruption and any other illegal activity affecting the financial interests of the union, especially in a context such as the present one characterised by serious economic difficulties and insufficient eu budgetary resources. protecting financial interests means first of all contributing together to sound financial management aimed at achieving priorities and objectives for the benefit of all, and increasing citizens' confidence by ensuring transparent and efficient management of their money. in 2013, the commission reported some 15 779 irregularities, of which 14 170 were non-fraudulent and 1 609 were fraudulent, for a total amount of some eur 2.14 billion, of which eur 1.76 billion related to spending areas of the eu budget. moreover, a slowdown in the reporting of potential fraudulent irregularities has also been observed over the past five years, partly due to a pattern of behaviour that is not uniform across member states, such as different interpretations of the concept of 'fraud' and failure to identify and report 'irregularity/fraud'. we must support anti-fraud strategies, such as the two criminal law proposals to ensure more effective investigations and the exchange of data between the relevant structures of the ms.
in writing. ‒ given that italy is among the countries with the highest number of fraud cases and given the latest investigations and arrests in sicily concerning the fraudulent use of eu funds by politicians and regional leaders, i can only vote in favour of this report which sets out the key points of the fight against fraud in 2013. he wants more control and more efficiency in the fight against fraud, and i can only agree with him.
in writing. ‒ the annual report shows that in the area of cohesion policy, reported cases of irregularities have increased by 15%. this is a very worrying figure, albeit one that has been partially mitigated by the reduction in the corresponding amounts, and one which should make us reflect on the instruments for monitoring cohesion policy, particularly in the light of the new programming. it is essential not to let down our guard but to intensify checks, but there are two areas where concrete action is needed. on the one hand, the very system of cohesion policy controls, which is extremely focused on procedural aspects rather than on the achievement of objectives. on the other hand, a real change in the bureaucratic and administrative procedures for accessing the funds would be necessary, which, without sacrificing the efficiency and effectiveness of the control instruments, would simplify them. i am convinced that we would have better design and less chance of fraud, which too often finds fertile ground in the folds of procedures so articulate and convoluted as to facilitate fraudulent activities rather than deter them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because, in the current economic difficulties faced by the member states and in the insufficiency of the eu budgetary resources, the protection of the financial interests of the european union is of crucial importance; eu funds must be managed properly and used as efficiently as possible. in 2013, 15 779 irregularities were reported to the commission, of which 14 170 were non-fraudulent and 1 609 were fraudulent, amounting to a total of approximately eur 2,14 billion, of which almost eur 1,76 billion related to expenditure areas of the eu budget. the number of irregularities reported as fraud in 2013 increased by a full 30% compared to 2012. in 2013, the recovery rate for fraud cases was just 23,74%. it is essential that the member states and the commission take steps to recover amounts unduly paid and to increase substantially the recovery rate for fraud cases, which is very low compared to the recovery rate for non-fraudulent irregularities. in particular, the commission must take full responsibility for the recovery of amounts unduly paid out of the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 annual report on the fight against fraud. the analysis calls for greater and better cooperation between the european institutions and the member states in the protection of the financial interests of the union.
in writing. ‒ the funds used by the eu are the result of the work and sacrifices made by millions of european citizens on a daily basis. for this reason, any fraud or irregularity constitutes an unacceptable betrayal of them and an obstacle to the implementation of the policies needed to achieve a european union that is up to the challenges of the present and the future. with today's vote we want to say loud and clear that all necessary measures must be taken to prevent the risk of fraud and to increase the recovery rate of fraud, which stood at 23.74% in 2013 compared to 33.5% in the period 2008-2012. at the same time we must ensure that all the funds recovered can be used to achieve a lighter and less oppressive tax for the lives of all european citizens.
in writing. i would like to express my full support for the report on the protection of the european union's financial interests 'fighting fraud'. i believe that it is necessary and right that europe, the home of rights and protections, should also be protected by all measures against all those acts of irregularity, corruption, smuggling and money laundering which seriously threaten the financial interests of consumers, citizens, businesses and administrations. i therefore agree with the importance of calling for increased cooperation and rapid exchange of information between the commission, the member states and the competent national authorities, so as to have a current and updated reference database which will help to detect transnational fraud, and i confirm my full support for greater transparency in relations with lobbies as already envisaged by the forthcoming opening of the lobbyists' register and the proposal for an independent european court to deal with fraud offences and to protect the interests of the union.
in writing. ‒ with this vote we underline the urgency of strengthening measures to combat fraud in the european union. the economic crisis and the consequent contraction of member states' budgets make the loss to the union's coffers of hundreds of millions, if not billions, of euros even more intolerable. in addition to the important work of simplifying european legislation, which will drastically reduce irregularities, it is important to improve the control and monitoring mechanisms. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the european union is based on the principle of proportionality.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr pirinski's report because it not only refers to the principle of transparency and accountability but also stresses the importance of anti-fraud coordination between all the member states of the european union. the protection of the european union's financial interests and the fight against fraud are crucial tools to ensure the correct and efficient use of european funds, which are important resources for investment and growth in europe, also in view of the difficulties facing national budgets.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the protection of the european union's financial interests fight against fraud, because it is aimed at harmonizing the european system for combating fraud and at dialogue and exchange of information between the member states. the report finds that member states behave differently in relation to different interpretations of the concept of fraud and different timelines for reporting to the competent bodies. a uniform approach by member states in reporting irregularities to the commission olaf is a necessary condition for effective fraud prevention at european level.
in writing. ‒ the budget of the european union protects the financial interests of the union and at the same time supports the implementation of community policies. it is a priority for the european union to combat fraud, corruption, money laundering and illicit activities that harm its interests. i welcomed the report, which refers to the adoption in 2013 of measures to protect the community's financial interests, as it highlights the importance of anti-fraud coordination between member states.
in writing. ‒ the protection of the financial interests of the european union, together with the principle of sound financial management, should be one of our priorities, as the community budget contributes to the achievement of the union's policies and objectives and to increasing the confidence of european citizens. it is therefore essential that we make every effort to combat fraud and irregularities: we must remember that misuse of community funds not only causes individual losses but also collective losses and damages the interests of each member state of the union as a whole. close cooperation and coordination between the commission and the member states is therefore essential. we reiterate our concern that there are still different approaches to detecting and reporting fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities; in some cases, inconsistent interpretations persist in the application of the legal framework. common guidelines and indicators should therefore be developed to reduce the gap between the different approaches adopted by the member states and to provide a unified and comprehensive database on the irregularities actually committed and the measures taken, thus providing the authorities with reliable, comparable and centralised data for the implementation of effective corrective measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the pirinski report, which highlights the wide range of legal and administrative measures adopted to protect the financial interests of the union. the report shows that in 2013, 15 779 irregularities were reported to the european commission, of which 14 170 were non-fraudulent and 1 609 were fraudulent, for a total amount of around eur 2.14 billion, of which almost eur 1.76 billion related to spending areas of the eu budget. more results can only be achieved when these measures are accompanied by other actions concerning transparency and accountability. i also welcome the establishment of anti-fraud coordination between the member states.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, whereas the fight against fraud, corruption and money laundering in the union must be a priority of the political action of the institutions and whereas judicial and police cooperation between member states is essential to this end. in view of the alarming increase in the number of irregularities reported as fraud in relation to european union spending,i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i generally agree with the contents of the report on the fight against fraud and i think it is right that the member states' behaviour on reporting fraud to olaf (european anti-fraud office) should be homogenized. the possible measure of rewarding those member states which have a high performance in this fight can also be a valuable incentive. we must promote ever more effective and effective measures to combat fraud, particularly when we are talking about large-scale transnational fraud. i believe that this requires an efficient system of information exchange between the competent authorities of the member states and increased cooperation with third countries, all under the supervision and coordination of olaf.
in writing. ‒ the fight against frostbite is also a problem faced at community level. the report calls for measures to protect the commission's financial interests, together with other rules to encourage greater transparency by the member states. that is why i voted in favour of mr pirinski's report.
in writing. i decided to vote in favour because the text drawn up by the committee on budgetary control provides a fairly comprehensive analysis of the situation in the year in question and mentions the need for greater and better cooperation between the european institutions and the member states to protect the financial interests of the union (especially at this stage of economic constraints for the member states).
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the european commission's argument that the increase in fraud in 2013 is above all an indication of a better system for monitoring and detecting irregularities in the eu. however, i believe that much more needs to be done to ensure a uniform interpretation of the concept of fraud and to harmonise fraud reporting procedures at european level. only by coordinating the member states' anti-fraud measures more effectively and in a structured manner can we ensure sound management of the funds and thus protect the financial interests of the european union.
in writing. the report shows that there is still a long way to go to ensure that the eu's financial interests are properly protected. i am referring in particular to the need for a policy of transparency which is lacking both in the eib's financing and in the traceability of european funds transactions. i am glad that our amendment on the question of the meester's pass has been adopted: we want to show that we are in the front line against those who fight for healthy and transparent spending. the eib is proving that it does not protect investments from the abuses and tentacles of organised crime. in this respect, i am concerned that the new juncker plan does not seem to take account of these problems, and i would remind you how effective supervision can be achieved by a proper policy of transparency. we call on the member states to make an extra effort to ensure that the protection and use of european funds is transparent, and we urge the commission to create an effective network of law and protection.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, montenegro has made undoubted progress in the negotiations for accession to the european union. sixteen negotiating chapters have now been opened, while those devoted to science and research and to education and culture have been provisionally included. the montenegrin government has been proactive in the process of regional reconciliation and has the merit of aligning itself with the european union's foreign and security policy, which is very important especially in the light of the current situation of international terrorist threats. montenegro has therefore made important improvements, which give rise to hope for the continuation of the negotiations. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i do not share the positions defended by the resolution which partially analyses the poor progress made by montenegro as a pre-accession country and therefore did not support it with my vote.
in writing. - i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the 2014 progress report on montenegro because i believe that it has made clear progress in the accession negotiations with the european union. sixteen negotiating chapters have now been opened, while those devoted to science and research and to education and culture have been provisionally concluded. the government of montenegro has also been proactive in the process of regional reconciliation and has the merit of aligning itself with the eu's common foreign and security policy, which is very important especially in the light of the current international terrorist threat situation. montenegro should therefore be acknowledged as having made important improvements which give good hope for the continuation of the negotiations. however, i believe that further progress and reforms are needed. i am referring in particular to the improvement of the rule of law, which is a fundamental prerequisite for accession to the eu and for the assumption of the obligations arising from it, and to the fight against corruption and organised crime. i would also like to stress that dialogue and constructive cooperation between the government and the opposition in montenegro must be strengthened in order to achieve shared progress in preparations for accession to the european union.
in writing. ‒ as i have already said in this chamber, i am absolutely in favour of montenegro joining the european union. i would like to stress that the very strong tourist vocation of the whole adriatic region must be protected and i hope that the continuation of the accession negotiations will enable us to deal concretely with the environmental question.
in writing. ‒ the state of montenegro is currently the country which has provisionally concluded several negotiating procedures with the european union. the measure under consideration highlights the efforts made by the state of montenegro to achieve reforms in the areas of justice, public administration, anti-discrimination and the cooperation agreement with eurojust and europol. the measure also calls for a stronger commitment by the state to reform the information sector efficiently in view of the lack of transparency in communication. greater active involvement of civil society calls for the measure. i thought i would vote in favour of the measure for the reasons stated above.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because it recognises the efforts made by montenegro and the important reforms already implemented; the commission has also been active in the field of education and training, and has been involved in the development of the european schools. i am aware, however, that serious problems remain in some areas of crucial importance, which montenegro is strongly encouraged to address, such as a stable and effective legal system, transparent information, the inclusion of civil society in decision-making and a serious commitment to fight corruption; the commission has proposed these objectives as steps towards the process of rapprochement with the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission's report on montenegro. it recognises the efforts made by the state and the important reforms already carried out; the commission has also been active in the field of education and training, and has been involved in the development of the european schools. however, serious problems remain in some areas which the european union considers to be of crucial importance and for which montenegro is strongly encouraged to address them. a stable and effective legal system, transparent information, the inclusion of civil society in the decision-making process and a serious commitment to combating corruption are some of the objectives suggested by the commission as steps towards the process of approximation to the european union. i also think that the foreign policy aspects of this report are very important, especially in view of montenegro's decision to take part in european, nato and un missions. in addition to increasingly aligning itself with the eu's foreign policy, the country is being asked to quickly resolve outstanding issues with its neighbours in a spirit of good neighbourliness and cooperation, aspects which the accession process cannot ignore.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that important steps towards democratization have been taken in montenegro. the constitutional and legislative framework is being extended towards the community framework. much has been done, but much remains to be done, especially in the fight against corruption. i consider it essential to open the eu to the balkan countries. i welcome what montenegro has done so far in terms of cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because i do not share the political will behind the proposal.
in writing. i vote in favour of the resolution on the progress made by montenegro as it reflects the need to encourage accession negotiations on the basis of the results achieved so far. montenegro has already provisionally closed some chapters of negotiations with the european union and the progress made so far in this process so far bodes well for the european integration process.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the 2014 progress report on montenegro. there are many positive aspects, such as the commitment to implementing reforms to ensure the independence and greater efficiency of the judiciary. there are priorities on which serious and constant work is needed: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. more efforts are needed to seriously combat impunity for war crimes. it is also important to emphasise that frequent legislative changes can actually make it difficult to effectively combat organised crime by slowing down the system. finally, as has rightly been pointed out, we need to make a greater effort to protect women's rights, and to seriously combat domestic violence, which must be suppressed in every way.
in writing. ‒ montenegro is the only country in the region to have opened and provisionally concluded some negotiating chapters with the eu, which is a positive development for the european integration process. my vote in favour of the resolution reflects the need to encourage the continuation of the accession negotiations, on the basis of the results achieved so far.
in writing. ‒ montenegro is currently the only country in the region to have opened and provisionally concluded some negotiating chapters with the european union, which is an important milestone in the process of stabilising that geographical area. we therefore encourage the continuation of the accession negotiations on the basis of the reforms implemented and the concrete results achieved, in particular those concerning the rule of law and the fight against corruption. we believe that the rule of law reforms are at the heart of the european integration process and are an essential condition for the continuation of the negotiations, together with the fight against corruption and organised crime, which are the basic condition for the independence, efficiency and professionalism of the judiciary. we reiterate the importance of protecting freedom of expression as one of the eu's fundamental values, as well as the essential need for full independence of the media and journalists. we express our deep concern at the still modest progress made in the areas of women's rights, gender equality, women's representation in politics and the labour market and the fight against domestic violence. finally, we encourage the government to implement sustainable economic reforms to boost competitiveness, overcome structural weaknesses and generally improve the business environment.
in writing. ‒ the general objective of enlargement policy is to implement article 49 of the treaty on european union, which offers the prospect of eu membership to all european countries that respect the union's fundamental values and are committed to promoting them. this report notes that although montenegro is doing very well on its path towards the european union, much remains to be done, particularly with regard to the rule of law, the environment, freedom of the press and the fight against corruption. in the light of the above, i welcome the commitment of montenegro to the eu accession process and i express my vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ whereas montenegro is currently the only country in the region to have opened and provisionally concluded some negotiating chapters with the eu, which is a positive development; that this leadership role is seen as an increased responsibility, both in the regional context and with regard to the enlargement process as a whole; the european institutions welcome the progress made in the accession negotiations and encourage the continuation of the accession negotiations on the basis of the reforms implemented and the concrete results, in particular those concerning the rule of law, the media environment and the fight against corruption and impunity for war crimes, which have not yet been fought. the european union also urges montenegro to resolve as soon as possible, in the framework of the accession process, outstanding bilateral issues with its neighbours in a constructive and good neighbourly spirit. for all these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the progress made by montenegro in the accession negotiations and the implementation of important reforms that encourage the continuation of the negotiations. among these reforms, two are of particular importance, namely those of the public administration and the judiciary, which require special attention. the efforts made are considerable, but it is good that the montenegrin authorities are doing more to combat corruption, which is still very much present, and that the system is more transparent in the various sectors. i hope that the montenegrin government will implement sustainable economic reforms to improve competitiveness and the business environment. i also urge montenegro to continue the progress made in environmental protection and to develop sustainable energy policies. i also hope that montenegro will soon join nato, so that greater security can be guaranteed throughout the adriatic.
in writing. ‒ following the accession application, negotiations with montenegro for its accession to the eu have been opened. montenegro has made a lot of progress, but there are still some gaps to be filled. much progress has also been made in the area of regional cooperation. it is important to work closely with a country so close to us geographically that it could soon be a resource for italy and for europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the progress report on montenegro because i believe that it has balanced the emphasis on the progress already made by the applicant country and on the progress still to be made in completing the process. in particular, while anti-discrimination legislation has been almost fully aligned with the acquis communautaire, efforts are still needed to adequately protect women's rights and gender equality, especially in the labour market. more attention should also be paid to the fight against corruption, which continues to be a concern for the proper functioning of the rule of law, economic development and the ability to attract investment. finally, it is important that genuine freedom of expression is guaranteed in montenegro, especially for journalists and the media in general, which is a prerequisite of any democratic country.
in writing. ‒ i do not share the positions defended by the resolution which partially analyses the poor progress made by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia as a pre-accession country and therefore did not support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ given the still unresolved dispute with greece over the name issue, the very high level of corruption, the constant threat to press freedom, the strong presence of organised crime, the lack of transparency at all levels, the growing unemployment and also considering that the european commission does not foresee any new accession to the european union for the next 5 years, i voted against this resolution.
in writing. - i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the 2014 report on the progress made by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the european parliament has repeatedly called for the opening of accession negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and that further delays in the opening of negotiations could have a negative impact on the reform processes in the country and on the eu's credibility in the region. the report called on the council to set a date for the opening of negotiations as soon as possible in order to maintain the momentum and promote the related reforms, thus contributing to a significant consolidation of the democratisation process initiated by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the opening of accession negotiations will have a positive impact on efforts to continue much needed reforms in the areas of the rule of law, judicial independence and the fight against corruption.
in writing. ‒ as i have already said in the debate, i am in favour of the accession of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to the european union because it is a historical necessity. nevertheless, the eu's commitment to the name issue needs to be more proactive: the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to provide the necessary financial support to the countries concerned.
in writing. ‒ negotiations between the european union and macedonia must be foreseen with firm timetables, as the measure in question provides. the promotion of the reforms provided for in the acquis must be encouraged in order to consolidate the integration process. the unresolved situation between the greek state and the macedonian state concerning the so-called name should not be an obstacle to the integration process. the commitment that is required of the macedonian state is to remedy the high level of corruption and the pressures on the independence of the media from the political sector, which i believe are crucial for full integration. the increase in the efficiency of judgments by the courts of the state of macedonia after the judicial reforms is to be taken into positive consideration. for these reasons i thought i should vote in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because i agree with the request to set a date for the start of negotiations between the eu and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia as soon as possible, in order to maintain the momentum and promote the reforms linked to the acquis and consolidate the democratisation process. i believe that the unresolved issue with greece concerning the name should not be an obstacle to the opening of negotiations because it is a bilateral issue, even if it should be resolved before the end of the accession process. i welcome the high level of legislative alignment and the increased efficiency of the macedonian courts as a result of the judicial reforms. however, i am aware that there are still serious problems in some areas which are of crucial importance, such as the independence of the media from political pressure and a serious commitment to combating corruption. the objectives just listed are those suggested by the commission as steps towards the process of approximation to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2014 progress report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia because, despite the remaining sensitive issues of media freedom, freedom of expression and the independence of the judiciary, and despite the need to acknowledge a political deadlock caused by the complete lack of cooperation between the government and the opposition, macedonia is aligning itself with the requirements for membership of the european union. i also believe, in line with the commission's position, that the above problems do not constitute an obstacle to the opening of negotiations, and that the opening of such negotiations could have a positive impact both on the pace of the reforms needed in the country and on the current situation of political tension.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2014 progress report on macedonia because i believe that as a candidate country to the eu for almost 10 years and as the country with the most progress in alignment with the european acquis, the negotiations should be started as soon as possible. the balkans will have to be part of this european union and we must help them to make that happen. the bilateral issues over the name dispute between greece and macedonia must not in any way hinder the accession negotiations between macedonia and the european union.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because i do not share the political will behind the proposal.
in writing. i support the resolution on the progress made by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and call on the new high representative, federica mogherini, to develop initiatives to overcome the deadlock in the process of european integration. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has been a candidate for accession to the european union for nine years and has shown that it is in compliance with the requirements of the acquis communautaire. i therefore hope that the direction indicated in the resolution can be taken.
the commission has also proposed a number of amendments to the proposal. ‒ the frustration of the macedonian public with the stagnation of the european integration process is likely to exacerbate national problems and internal tensions. i have therefore decided to support the report on the progress made by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, which calls on the new high representative to develop initiatives to overcome this stalemate.
in writing. ‒ the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has been an eu candidate for nine years and is the most advanced country in terms of alignment with the eu acquis. in view of the progress made, we believe that the country is ready to negotiate its accession and therefore we invite the council to launch all the procedures envisaged. as a parliament we have repeatedly called for the start of negotiations, believing that further delays could have a negative impact on the reform processes in the country and on the eu's credibility in the region. while we recognize the existence of an unresolved dispute with greece over the name issue, we are convinced that bilateral issues should not be an obstacle to negotiations. the lack of progress in the european integration process could increase the costs to regional stability and the eu's credibility, as well as lead to a decline in the country's democratic norms. we are also concerned about the continuing deterioration of relations between the government and the opposition, particularly with regard to the recent exchange of accusations of criminal offences. we therefore call on all parties to ensure sustainable political cooperation and to lay the foundations for a constructive dialogue, which is essential for the democratic development of the country and the pursuit of the european agenda.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support the resolution because i believe that the time has come for the council to give the green light to the opening of eu accession negotiations and for the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and greece to finally find, through the mediation of the high representative for foreign affairs, a mutually acceptable solution to the controversial question of the name 'macedonia'.
in writing. ‒ whereas the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has been an eu candidate for nine years and is the most advanced country in terms of alignment with the acquis, and whereas for the sixth consecutive time the commission has recommended to the council to open negotiations; that the country is ready to negotiate with the eu; whereas the rule of law, freedom of the media, regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations are essential criteria for the eu enlargement process and corruption and organised crime remain a serious problem; reiterates for the ninth consecutive time its call on the council to set a date for the start of negotiations as soon as possible in order to maintain momentum and promote reforms linked to the acquis, strongly encourages the authorities and civil society to take appropriate steps towards historic reconciliation in order to bridge the gap between and within the various ethnic groups; the european parliament, noting that the eu programme remains a strategic priority for the country, called for reforms and a reversal of policies that could still hamper its european future, and i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ given that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is in a good position in terms of alignment with the acquis communautaire, i believe that it is time to start negotiations with the eu. in this context, the country should further consolidate reforms and commit to ensuring progress on the implementation of eu-related priority reforms. but progress requires a better political climate and improved relations between the political parties and a constructive dialogue to ensure political stability. i also hope that a solution will be found to the bilateral question of the name. in this context, relations with neighbouring countries should be improved, with an objective interpretation of history, better attitudes of the population towards neighbours and better reconciliation between the various ethnic groups.
in writing. ‒ the resolution reiterates the need to set a date for the opening of negotiations, while highlighting the lack of political culture and the restriction of certain fundamental freedoms. through the negotiations, the eu hopes to stimulate macedonia towards a necessary path of democratisation for the good of the whole continent.
in writing. ‒ i do not share the positions taken in the resolution which partially analyses the little progress made by serbia as a pre-accession country and for this reason i did not support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the report on serbia's recent progress towards eu membership. in recent months we have received positive and encouraging signals, progress in the right direction but needing further input from the serbian government to be consolidated. two sensitive fronts are the fight against corruption and organised crime. the dialogue between belgrade and pristina remains of essential importance, and in this regard we hope that all the normalisation agreements already reached between the two sides will be implemented as soon as possible in order to further facilitate serbia's accession to the eu. we believe that only through the joint efforts of all regional actors can serbia strengthen its economic, social and democratic development. the protection and implementation of human rights and fundamental freedoms at all levels of serbian society and in accordance with european and international values is a priority in this respect and is fully supported and monitored by the s&d group.
in writing. ‒ i abstained, i do not share the positions openly critical of the pro-russian policies of the serbs.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the 2014 progress report on serbia. the new serbian government has in fact demonstrated its willingness to commit itself fully to the process of european integration and to tackle in a decisive and direct manner the systemic and socioeconomic reforms necessary to continue on the path of change and approximation to european standards. the negotiations between the eu and serbia are already producing positive results, such as progress towards the normalisation of relations with kosovo, improvements in regional cooperation policy and closer relations with the eu. serbia is a key country on the balkan chessboard and its accession to the european union is therefore to be considered strategic. i therefore hope that the belgrade government will continue with determination the process of integration which it has begun and will be able to make the courageous choices necessary to complete it.
in writing. ‒ the european council of 28 june 2013 finally decided to open accession negotiations with serbia. as i was able to recall during the debate, we call for serbia's efforts to search for missing persons to be strengthened. for more than 20 years, 12,000 families still do not know the fate of their loved ones. i hope that the serbian authorities will be willing to open the various archives to deal with this matter which remains a bleeding wound in the heart of the countries of the former yugoslavia.
in writing. ‒ the commitment shown by the serbian government to the european integration process, as highlighted in the measure under consideration, which calls on the serbian state to address socioeconomic and structural reforms, is commendable and rewarding. successful integration requires a complete change in both policies and legislation. improving the rule of law is the process that the serbian state is tackling with determination and resolutions that are certainly important for a final result. i also believe that serbia is a key state for the strategic economic and commercial relationship with russia, given the close relationship between the two states. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure, as it welcomes the commitment shown by the new serbian government to the european integration process and calls on serbia to tackle systemic and socio-economic reforms in a decisive and direct manner. i believe that serbia can play a key role in eu-russia relations, thanks to the traditionally strong economic, social and cultural ties between the two countries. i am convinced that the full implementation of legislation and policies remains a key indicator of a successful integration process; i therefore believe that serbia needs to improve the planning, coordination and monitoring of the implementation of the new rules and policies; in particular, serbia needs to make further progress on the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european commission's 2014 progress report on serbia, as while there are still sensitive issues in the legislation on child protection, education systems, access to the media and freedom of religion for linguistic minorities, and while full compliance with the european union's foreign and security policy is still required, the systematic and socio-economic efforts and approach of the serbian government, particularly in the reform of the judiciary and public administration, must be taken into account. the republic of serbia should also be commended for its commitment to dialogue with kosovo, although the report shows a delay in implementing the agreements. i believe, in line with the position expressed by the council and the commission, that the above issues do not constitute an obstacle to progress in the negotiations for serbia's accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that serbia is making considerable efforts towards alignment with european democratic standards. important progress has been made: the social and economic reforms are promising. however, much remains to be done, especially in the fight against corruption and for full respect for minorities. i appreciate the efforts made to normalize relations with kosovo. we must facilitate the integration of the countries of the balkan area into the european union.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report because unlike other reports it maintains an objective approach to the serbian question.
in writing. this is the first time that the european parliament has formally commented on serbia's progress towards eu membership. the council's formal decision to open negotiations came in the second half of 2013 and it was only a few weeks ago that the commission was able to produce the first monitoring report on the ongoing negotiations. it is therefore an exciting time: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. a conflict which seemed to cut off all hope of reconciliation and full reunification in this part of the continent, a war which created a black hole in the heart of europe and which today, after many efforts, seems to be far from the memory. serbia's place is in the european union, to which it belongs because of its deep cultural, historical and spiritual ties. however, eu membership is first and foremost a political act, and that is why i agree with and support the careful report by mr mcallister, which stresses the steps to be taken on some crucial points, such as administrative and judicial reform, the protection of minorities and the identification of the many acts and crimes committed during the recent conflict.
in writing. i vote in favour of the resolution on the progress made by serbia, which stresses the importance of improving the implementation of the eu-serbia stabilisation and association agreement. the eu and the member states are urged to continue to work together to ensure that the eu's external borders are respected.
in writing. ‒ serbia has made a lot of progress in recent years, becoming a protagonist in the normalisation of relations with kosovo. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution on serbia, which stresses the importance of improving the implementation of the eu-serbia stabilisation and association agreement and calls on the authorities of serbia and kosovo to step up cooperation in order to combat and dismantle the criminal networks responsible for the control and exploitation of irregular migrants.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the recent start of accession negotiations with serbia and underline the progress made and the commitment shown by the new government to the european integration process. we call for continued efforts to implement the planned systemic and socioeconomic reforms; we welcome the commitment to the normalisation process with kosovo and strongly encourage the serbian authorities to play a constructive role in this context, as well as in the development of good neighbourly relations and cross-border cooperation. we see that corruption and organised crime are spreading in the region, and that they are also an obstacle to serbia's democratic, social and economic development. we therefore believe that a regional strategy and enhanced cooperation between all the countries in the region are essential to tackle these issues more effectively. we call for further efforts to promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for minorities at all levels of serbian society, without any discrimination and in accordance with european and international standards. we encourage the serbian authorities to take steps to ensure equal representation of women in political and public life, as measures on gender equality remain weak and insufficient.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support the resolution on serbia's progress during 2014. the resolution welcomes the start of accession talks on 21 january 2014 and the commitment shown by the serbian government to the european integration process. however, further progress is needed on the path to reform, the process of normalising relations with kosovo, the alignment of its foreign and security policy and legislation on the protection of minorities. finally, serbia is encouraged to conclude bilateral agreements with neighbouring countries.
in writing. ‒ i believe that serbia is making important progress towards aligning itself with the copenhagen criteria and thus fulfilling the conditionalities of the stabilisation and association process; however, there are still many gaps that the country needs to fill in order to pass the entrance examination. significant progress has been made in the normalisation and legal framework of relations with kosovo. the new government seems to be motivated to work actively on the eu accession project and the actions it has taken are mainly geared towards this objective. significant was the government's decision to allow the pride parade, which took place without major incidents. nevertheless, serbia is lagging considerably behind in several areas. collaborating more actively on the fight against crime, illegal migration, environmental standards, strengthening the rule of law, protecting minorities and tackling systemic and socio-economic reforms are just some of the main challenges facing the belgrade government. the will seems to be there, the european need to integrate the former yugoslav countries as well. i am convinced that serbia can play an important role in the future in the dialogue with its north-eastern neighbours.
in writing. ‒ whereas the european council of 28 june 2013 decided to open accession negotiations with serbia; whereas the first intergovernmental conference (igc) took place on 21 january 2014; whereas in its 2014 progress report on serbia, the commission reports on the progress of the country towards european integration, assessing its commitment to the copenhagen criteria and the conditionality of the stabilisation and association process; that good neighbourly relations are a fundamental element of a positive european integration of any country and that bilateral issues must be addressed in the accession process in accordance with the negotiating framework, in a constructive and good neighbourly spirit; taking into account the eu's global interests and values; that important steps have been taken in the process of historic reconciliation between serbia and its neighbours; underlining the progress made and the importance of improving the implementation of the eu-serbia stabilisation and association agreement (saa); the european union is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of experts in the field of human rights.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the efforts and commitment of serbia to the european integration process, and for this, serbia must fully implement the necessary systemic and socio-economic reforms. this is why serbia needs to improve its planning, monitoring and coordination of new eu rules and policies, which remains the key factor in a successful integration process. with a view to improving relations with kosovo, i welcome the good progress achieved in the dialogue between the prime ministers of the two countries with a view to initiating a process of normalisation with kosovo. i stress the importance of the two countries committing themselves to intensifying cooperation between them in order to combat and dismantle the criminal networks responsible for the exploitation and trafficking of migrants from kosovo to some eu member states via serbia.
in writing. ‒ an open and constructive dialogue with serbia is even more necessary today, especially given its relations with russia, which are not aligned with european positions. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the council has not yet adopted a decision on the establishment of a european police force.
in writing. ‒ i do not share the positions defended by the resolution which partially analyses the poor progress made by kosovo as a pre-accession country and therefore did not support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ given the persistent shortcomings of the judicial system, the high level of corruption, the strong presence of organised crime, including trafficking in human beings, the lack of protection of minorities and discrimination against women in particular, the lack of transparency in media funding and the weaknesses in labour market conditions, including rising unemployment; i also consider that the european commission does not foresee any new accession to the european union for the next five years, so i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against, kosovo still seems very far from eu standards and does not, in my view, fulfil the basic requirements of cultural and historical unity with europe.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the european integration process in kosovo which calls on its government to make progress on reforms to provide its citizens with a better future. seven years after declaring independence, kosovo still faces many challenges: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the development of the environment and the protection of the environment. the new government elected in december 2014 does not meet expectations for change, more jobs and better health and education systems. i therefore hope that the kosovo government will make efforts to bring about the necessary reforms.
in writing. ‒ today, 110 of the 193 un member states, including 23 of the 28 eu member states, recognise kosovo's independence. the report by our colleague ulrike lunacek does not ignore the various problems facing the country: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area. i therefore believe that serbia and kosovo will have to continue alongside each other on the path to accession and we will work with them to make that path straight.
in writing. ‒ i consider the process of integration of the state of kosovo to be an indispensable and positive action. the establishment of the new government and the formation of the new parliamentary assembly six months before the elections require urgent democratic and transparent reforms. the reforms of justice, sustainable development and economic reforms are central and immediate, operating with clarity and maximum participation of civil society. the measure highlights the lack of protection for women and children and ethnic minorities. it also stresses the urgency of combating the crime of terrorism and illegal immigration. i therefore voted in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the process of european integration in kosovo, because this measure underlines the importance of the formation of the parliamentary assembly and the formation of the government six months before the elections. however, there are a number of areas where i believe reforms are urgently needed: i am referring in particular to judicial reform, economic reform and the promotion of sustainable development. i also believe that kosovo needs to include civil society more in the decision-making process and that there is a lack of serious recognition of ethnic minorities. i particularly appreciate the urgency with which the resolution calls for the fight against criminal organisations, the main vectors of illegal immigration and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the process of european integration in kosovo. it welcomes the formation of the parliamentary assembly and the formation of the government six months before the elections, but there are many areas where urgent reforms are called for. in particular, it refers to the reform of the judiciary, economic reform and the promotion of sustainable development, and calls for greater transparency and the inclusion of civil society in decision-making; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i welcome the urgency of the call to combat criminal organisations, the main vectors of illegal immigration and terrorism. the call for a rapid solution to the high level of unemployment, a factor of social discomfort which is driving people to leave their own country, is also welcome. in order to achieve the necessary reforms as soon as possible, this document encourages the european countries which have not yet done so to recognise the state of kosovo, to cooperate and to establish trade relations with it and calls, where appropriate, for the renewal of the mandate of the special representative for kosovo.
in writing. ‒ i support the position taken by the ep on the process of european integration in kosovo. several critical points that deserve attention were raised, including the lack of effectiveness of the fight against corruption and the need for a legislative framework guaranteeing freedom of the press as well as diversifying energy sources and developing renewable energy sources.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because it is not objective and i do not share the political will behind the proposal.
in writing. just over 15 years ago, european public opinion watched in amazement as a new conflict erupted within the continent. today, after a continuous series of tensions and historical sedimentation of nationalist rivalries, kosovo finally seems to be moving, albeit slowly, towards a path of peace, thanks also to the intervention and help of europe. the lunacek report - which i fully supported - has the merit of giving a full account of the political situation in kosovo and of pointing out the crucial elements on which european action will have to concentrate in order to contribute to further democratic progress in the country. the electoral events of recent months have resulted in a slowdown in the pace of negotiations between kosovo and serbia, which is obviously the main scenario to be analysed in order to assess the progress of the young balkan country towards democracy and pacification. the report notes this situation but also welcomes the resumption of talks between belgrade and pristina, which took place in february 2015 in brussels. i hope that the european parliament's report will urge the new government of kosovo to continue on the european path, by fully implementing, in the legislative field, a number of priority issues, including the strengthening and consolidation of the rule of law, the definition of a judicial model based on the principles of independence, professionalism and efficiency, and a systematic and effective fight against corruption and organised crime.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the process of european integration in kosovo as it urges the new government to continue its activities by continuing the path of rapprochement with the eu, stressing the need to make further efforts for the establishment of the rule of law in kosovo.
in writing. ‒ 23 of the 28 eu member states have recognised kosovo's independence. the european union's election observation mission concluded that the last legislative elections in the country were conducted in accordance with the criteria of transparency and inclusion. i voted in favour of the resolution because it urges the new government of kosovo to continue on its european path. at the same time, it appropriately stresses the importance of establishing the rule of law within the country.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the end of the political impasse which lasted for almost six months after the last elections, with the constitution of the assembly and the appointment of the new government, which we urge to continue on the european path through measures to strengthen the rule of law, the definition of a judicial model based on the principles of independence, professionalism and efficiency, as well as a systematic and effective fight against corruption and organised crime at all levels. despite progress in legislation governing the judiciary and its organisation, there remain serious concerns about the independence, accountability and impartiality of judges and prosecutors, as well as the functioning of the judicial council, the prison system and the protection of the rule of law. we share the need for further efforts to prepare for the full transfer of responsibilities from the eulex mission to kosovo. in this regard, we express deep concern at the recent allegations of corruption within eulex and therefore welcome the swift reaction of the high representative to appoint an independent expert to thoroughly investigate the follow-up to these allegations. we therefore call for full transparency in these investigations and urge all parties involved to cooperate fully to ensure their speedy conclusion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that european integration is the key to stabilising kosovo and the whole region. today's vote by a large majority is a sign of great confidence in that country. seven years after declaring independence, kosovo still faces many political, economic and social challenges. it is therefore extremely urgent and essential that kosovo continues to implement the reforms necessary to continue on its european path.
in writing. ‒ whereas the negotiations for the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement (saa) were concluded in may 2014 and the saa was signed in july 2014; that each (potential) candidate country will be judged on its own merits and that the speed and quality of the necessary reforms will define the timetable for accession; welcoming the end of the six-month political impasse following the elections, with the constitution of the assembly and the appointment of the new government; expressing concern about the appointment of controversial persons whose records could be called into question; deploring the unnecessarily high number of ministers and deputy ministers in the new government, with its budgetary implications, and the low number of women among the ministers; urging the new government to continue on the european path and underlining that it is committed to pursuing with determination, including through a legislative framework, a number of the country's priority issues; welcoming the progressive strengthening and increased coordination between civil society organisations of the progress made in the legislation governing the judiciary and its organisation, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ after six months of deadlock, the assembly has finally been set up in kosovo and a government appointed. i voted in favour of this resolution because it is right that the kosovar nation should feel the support of the european union at this time, even though five of the 28 member states have not yet taken steps to recognise its independence and i would encourage them to do so. the reforms must be implemented with strength and commitment by kosovo, so that the process of european integration can proceed rapidly. to achieve this, the kosovo authorities must strengthen the rule of law and the judiciary, make it independent and impartial so that it can guarantee the rights of its citizens. it is also essential that we fight effectively against corruption, discrimination, particularly against women, and unemployment, with a focus on structural economic reforms and sustainable development. prevent any radicalisation that may take the form of terrorism by ensuring transparency in the media and freedom of the press. i am also very pleased with the decision of the high representative to appoint a legal expert to clarify the role of eulex in the alleged corruption allegations.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that the new government and the constituent assembly have recently been appointed in kosovo, after the long post-election deadlock. i hope that the new government will implement the necessary reforms with commitment and determination and without further delay. it is important that the rule of law is strengthened, an independent, professional and effective judicial model is established and a systematic fight against organised crime and corruption is undertaken. if kosovo is to achieve european integration, parliament must also adopt a new regulation in line with best european practice. i also believe that it is a matter of priority for the authorities of serbia and kosovo to seek cooperation agreements to combat and dismantle the criminal networks responsible for the control and exploitation of irregular migrants and the trafficking of migrants from kosovo to certain eu member states via serbia.
in writing. ‒ the stabilisation of the entire balkan area is of strategic and economic importance for the european union as a whole. the case of kosovo is one of the most difficult, considering that not all the member states have recognised it. the recent corruption scandal involving eulex underlines the need for even greater commitment in this area.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because we all have to admit that the recovery we all expected has unfortunately not come. we now hope that the european commission's forecasts are realistic. the three priorities identified are shared: investment, structural reforms and fiscal consolidation will certainly help the recovery. it is important to stress, however, that flexibility is a must in this context. budgetary interventions must not affect growth or even impede investment in research, education and training. small and mediumsized enterprises, one of the largest sources of market resources, still face many difficulties in accessing credit and finance. the level of social protection is minimal in many countries and far from standardised. the structural funds are not always spent or even lost. so it was naive to expect growth: the good news is that we now know where to start and, more importantly, what to fix.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis still has many consequences that are slowing down the economic recovery in the european union, although a recovery is expected in 2015 and a further improvement in 2016. these improvements can only be achieved by building on the three pillars proposed in the 2015 annual growth survey: boosting investment, accelerating structural reforms and pursuing responsible, growth-friendly fiscal consolidation. but this is coupled with the need for the european union to increase its global competitiveness by increasing and planning investment in innovation and development and improving the market for goods and services. finally, i agree with the emphasis in the report on measures to improve the efficiency of public administration and those to improve the labour market, paying particular attention to youth unemployment, a sad scourge of our times. the report goes in that direction and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which insists on reiterating the usefulness of the european semester for the coordination of economic policies, which is contradicted by the facts, namely 25 million unemployed and 5 million young people who are out of work. the citizens are tired of being the puppets of this europe where the financial lobbies and germany have taken the place of democracy. they are tired of paying for the insane power games of a ruling class which, instead of teasing the citizens and extolling the european semester, should only admit that the euro has failed and that the treaties need to be rewritten.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the coordination of economic policies, which effectively highlights the positive elements of the past few months and the many problems still to be addressed in order to return to growth. among the hopeful signs of economic recovery, we can certainly consider the significant reduction in the price of oil, the rebalancing of the value of the euro and the policies finally put in place by the ecb. in europe, the integration of targeted investment with national structural reforms is the strategy we are pursuing. the flexibility communication and the ongoing work towards the definitive implementation of the strategic investment fund are key tools to support member states in making public investments on the one hand and to support the private sector in overcoming limited risk appetite on the other. alongside the investment plan, the way to get back on track is to be competitive: reforms must ensure real and sustainable growth. improving and simplifying the rules in the business environment are priorities in this respect, as is the need to modernise education systems to allow for an effective match between the skills of tomorrow's workers and the demands of the labour market.
in writing. - i voted against it. the report supports the commission's three-pronged approach (reviving investment, structural reforms, austerity), which is like trying to cure influenza by inoculating the patient with other pathogenic viruses. some examples of the proposed treatment: institutionalising the troika, a common european corporate tax to combat tax fraud, cross-border and cross-sectoral mobility of workers and more immigrants to foster growth.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination, and in particular on the 2015 annual growth reports, because the recovery needs to be strengthened if we are to achieve a substantial increase in growth and jobs in the medium term. the euro area is still reeling from the consequences of an exceptionally long economic downturn that began in 2008. this dramatic situation is due in particular to a lack of investment caused by low confidence, low demand expectations, high indebtedness, the absence of measures to promote productive public investment, low demand expectations burdened by austerity measures aimed at correcting overspending, a lack of adequate financing capacity and the fact that in many cases member states and the eu do not take appropriate action to address these factors. the investment plan for europe is an essential tool for recovery. i therefore call on the member states to actively support this plan and to contribute to the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), supplementing the amounts provided by the eu budget and the eib, in order to encourage the private sector to invest.
in writing. ‒ the policy coordination envisaged on the basis of the european semester should aim at fostering growth and, to this end, the effective completion of the single market and the protection of workers and consumers is a priority. the approach adopted in the first half of the year has not allowed any significant progress to be made in this direction, so that dumping - both social and fiscal - remains a major problem. in addition, depressed fiscal policies and the ecb's interventions, which had no tangible impact on the thousands of micro-enterprises in crisis, did not counterbalance the situation. it is important to make clear the absolute need for a reversal of the trend, the european citizens have a right to effective and concrete responses to the crisis, and i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the measure promotes economic recovery and a return to more sustainable growth levels on the basis of three important pillars: boosting investment, fiscal consolidation in a responsible way and accelerating structural reforms. it is clear that the recovery is still weak and must be strengthened if substantial increases in growth and jobs are to be achieved in the medium term. the measure is satisfactory and i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the economic recovery is still too weak and that it needs to be strengthened if we are to achieve a substantial increase in growth and jobs in the medium term. i take note of the commission's 2015 annual growth survey, which is working to promote a return to more robust growth levels and to strengthen the recovery. i am in favour of the approach based on three main pillars (boosting investment, accelerating structural reforms and pursuing responsible fiscal consolidation). that is why i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination which deals with the annual growth analysis for 2015 for the regions listed below. this report, part of a set of three reports on the european semester, highlights how the lack of investment is driven by high debt and private sector risk aversion on the one hand, and by the fragmentation of financial markets and low expectations of demand as a result of austerity measures aimed at curbing spending on the other. in this context, the commission's financial programming should stimulate investment and encourage new investors. in addition, the gradual process of structural reforms undertaken by the member states has stabilised capital markets and reduced the number of countries subject to the excessive deficit procedure to 11 in 2014 from 24 in 2011. these assumptions lead to modest optimism for the future. the european strategy, based on fiscal adjustment, structural reforms and the strengthening of investment for growth, appears to be in line with the need to revive the member states' micro-economies and the european macroeconomy.
in writing. ‒ as every year, the european parliament presents an own-initiative report analysing the aspects of the annual growth survey text. the text voted in the econ committee has many criticisms and does not make any substantial contribution to the formulation of the next report. in particular, the text takes too much credit for the measures taken after the crisis and fails to recognise that austerity measures have stifled growth and social cohesion, as well as relying on an overly optimistic approach to the prospects for future growth. in addition, there is no mention of the measures needed to restore growth, and there are few references to the internal market, the labour market, social policies and the fight against tax evasion and avoidance. after long and difficult negotiations with the rapporteur, the text was slightly amended in committee, but not to the extent that it was acceptable. no amendments proposed by m5s were included in the compromises. i can only vote against.
in writing. this own-initiative report takes into account that the economic recovery slowed down in 2014. it then reiterates the three pillars on which growth must be based: boosting investment, accelerating structural reforms and pursuing responsible and growth-friendly fiscal consolidation. however, it is a sin of optimism. i don't think that's an analysis that reflects the facts. the report welcomes the 315 billion in the juncker plan, but it is still unclear how the famous multiplier will be achieved, which will be able to generate 15 for every euro invested. the commission's annual growth analysis for 2015 is also praised as if the commission could boast excellent results when, immediately afterwards, it laments the loss of market shares worldwide by member states and loss of competitiveness. i believe that to increase global competitiveness, we need to restore citizens' confidence, with policies that focus on innovation and keep labour costs in line with productivity, solving the problem of youth unemployment so that it does not further exacerbate social distress in the years ahead. i voted against because i do not think that asking the member states to make additional efforts under these conditions without combining them with adequate measures for growth is the right course to take.
in writing. ‒ i strongly oppose yet another report which supports the commission's approach to economic policies which we regard as failing.
in writing. the rosati report is an important text, which i voted in favour of partly because it comes at a decisive moment for the economic recovery of the european union. with just a few months to go before the start of the new term, the european institutions are trying to open a new path - as suggested by the progressive eu governments - that would end the line of austerity and rigor. in this report parliament sets out a comprehensive framework of priorities which should accompany the economic policies recently launched. i would like to recall here some of the main points of the new economic policy of the eu: firstly, the investment plan for europe, an important instrument for increasing private and public investment, attracting investors and restoring confidence. i too believe, as the report rightly points out, that the investment plan for europe should focus primarily on projects with european added value which are not yet eligible for bank financing and above all that it should be geared to growth and sustainability. in this respect, i hope that the member states will respond to the call to contribute to the efsi, supplementing the amounts provided by the eu budget and the eib, in order to guide and encourage the private sector to invest.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, growth is coming back, albeit in a reduced form. many member states are still in the midst of structural reforms and are working towards budgetary balance. in addition, there is a general shift away from the use of fiscal adjustments for growth, i.e. a tax increase is not currently considered to be beneficial for growth and to stimulate investment. the text by mr rosati on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies explains the european union's strategy, which is now based on three main pillars: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the competitiveness of the european economy.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, the economic recovery in the eu member states slowed sharply. the euro area is still experiencing record levels of unemployment, while some countries are still engaged in implementing structural reforms and fiscal consolidation measures. i voted in favour of the rosati report because it proposes a coherent recovery strategy based on fiscal consolidation, structural reforms and increased investment to promote growth.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this report because we share the importance of the role played by the european semester, introduced in 2010, as an annual instrument for the coordination of economic and budgetary policies, macroeconomic and structural reforms of the member states of the european union. at a time of a severe investment crisis due to low market confidence, low demand expectations and high debt, we believe that the investment plan for europe proposed by the juncker commission is a first step towards stimulating new resources and developing new projects, attracting investors and restoring consumer confidence. however, we call on member states to safeguard and strengthen the inclusiveness, sustainability and equity of social protection. the reforms required of the states should be socially balanced and more geared to growth and employment. we call on the commission to put in place measures to make the european semester process more effective and democratic, for example by formally involving the european parliament. we consider the current framework of economic governance to still lack sufficient democratic accountability in the application of its rules and the institutions and bodies concerned.
in writing. ‒ in his report, mr rosati welcomed the annual growth analysis which opens the cycle of coordination of the economic policies of the member states. the document showed that the eurozone is still at risk of stagnation. in particular, the level of investment is well below the level reached in 2007, with a lack of investment of eur 304 billion. the reasons are both a lack of demand for credit due to the uncertain environment and the reluctance of institutions to provide financing for investment. the high unemployment rate is also a cause for concern and requires effective and timely action. however, there are also signs of hope, such as the reduction in the number of countries under the excessive deficit procedure and the lowering of the price of oil, which will benefit importing countries and lead to an increase in gdp. i have decided to vote in favour of the report because the proposed approach to boosting growth, with the three pillars of the investment plan, structural reforms and the consolidation of accounts, seems to be the right way forward.
in writing. ‒ whereas the economic recovery in the eu slowed down sharply in 2014 but the commission sees prospects for recovery in 2015 and further improvement in 2016; that six years after the start of the financial crisis in 2008, the euro area still has record unemployment levels of almost 12%; believing that the euro area is still reeling from the consequences of an exceptionally long economic downturn that began in 2008; noting that the recovery is still fragile and needs to be strengthened if substantial growth and jobs are to be achieved in the medium term; notes, however, that growth in 2014 is more generalised and that the commission's 2015 annual growth survey is working to promote a return to more robust growth levels and to strengthen the recovery; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community, such as the introduction of a new system of own resources, the creation of a european financial area, the creation of a european financial area, the creation of a european financial area, the creation of a european financial area, and the establishment of a european financial area.
in writing. ‒ growth is slowly returning to europe, but some member states are still in the process of implementing structural reforms and consolidating their budgets. the community strategy is based on three pillars: fiscal adjustment, structural reforms and strengthening investment for growth. tax discipline is certainly necessary, but without investment there can be no growth!
in writing. i decided to vote against because the report supports the commission's approach based on three pillars: boosting investment; structural reforms; austerity. some examples of the proposed "cure" are: institutionalising the troika; a common european corporate tax to combat tax fraud; cross-border and cross-sectoral mobility of workers and more immigrants to promote growth; making up for the democratic deficit of the european semester with a more binding emu; focusing only on excessive deficit/debt and no mention of excessive surpluses.
in writing. as every year, the european parliament presents an own-initiative report in which it expresses an opinion on the annual growth survey (ags) in which the european commission identifies the main objectives to be pursued for the following year. m5s has put forward a number of proposals and identified several measures to kick-start growth. but despite long and difficult negotiations, the text has remained unchanged and none of the proposed amendments has been accepted. the result is an unbalanced and unobjective text. the text welcomes the measures taken after the crisis and does not attribute the lack of growth to austerity measures. worse still, additional efforts are required from countries in difficulty in terms of fiscal consolidation and structural reforms, and, finally, there is insufficient reference to social policies and the fight against tax evasion and avoidance. in conclusion, the text not only made no contribution to the formulation of the next ags. this was another wasted opportunity for parliament to denounce the ineffectiveness of austerity policies and to seriously identify alternative measures to boost growth. for these reasons, m5s voted against.
in writing. ‒ this year, the european parliament presented its own-initiative report, analysing the issues related to the annual growth survey (ags). but i think the text is a little too fond of the measures taken after the crisis and fails to recognise that the austerity measures have done nothing but stifle growth. this report is based on an overly optimistic approach to the future growth prospects and the added value that the new european fund for strategic investments (efsi) could bring. i do not think it is appropriate to continue to require additional efforts from countries in terms of fiscal consolidation and structural reforms. in the final analysis, there is not enough reference to the measures needed to return to growth, too little reference to the internal market, social policies and the fight against tax evasion and avoidance. for all these reasons i voted against this report, which i consider to have many criticisms and to make no substantial contribution to the formulation of the next annual review.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which celebrates the useless and harmful practice of the european semester. it is useless because the coordination of economic policies, apart from demonstrating that europe has also taken away our ability to decide how to spend our money, has not solved any problem. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty, and it is not only the european parliament that has been involved in the negotiations, but also the european parliament. the veneto is a prime example. here, the "eurofollies" have destroyed as many as 100,000 jobs, closing down at least 3,000 businesses in 2014 alone. if this is the wonderful result of the european semester, then let us cancel it! no more rallying, no more propaganda, no more lies!
in writing. - i voted against it. the report criticises the negative impact of austerity on employment but only because it is so obvious that it cannot be denied. the text reiterates its support for the commission's approach based on three pillars: boosting investment, reforms and austerity. the wrong solutions.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination on employment and social aspects in the annual growth survey 2015. the report highlighted that the economic and social environment in the eu continues to be alarming. the unemployment rate remains at historically high levels, with almost 25 million unemployed in the eu and a particularly critical labour market situation for young people. it is therefore essential that a european framework is established to ensure that all investments under the investment plan for europe have a significant impact in terms of job creation. the commission will have to assess carefully the economic and social impact of the investments in real terms. finally, i know that smes, which are the backbone of job creation in the eu, continue to face serious difficulties in accessing finance and are in a worrying situation of excessive indebtedness. the commission and the member states should therefore restore the ability of the economic system to lend, thus enabling smes to invest and create jobs.
in writing. ‒ the report under review is a good text in general terms, but it cannot be ignored that it contains paragraphs which once again call for structural reforms and for fiscal responsibility. in the current economic climate, with rampant unemployment and dangerous deflation, investment (particularly in small and medium-sized enterprises) and employment measures should be given priority. i therefore decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ numerous indicators show an improvement in the employment situation, but the unemployment rate is still too high, with dramatic peaks in the weakest areas. the commission's recommendations to the member states on structural consolidation and reforms, but above all on economic and social policies that promote smart and sustainable growth, through the creation of quality jobs and support for smes that are currently excluded from the global competitive game because of excessive and undue difficulties in accessing finance, can play a key role. equally important is the expectation of a greater commitment by all the european institutions to encourage the initiative of the states and the various territorial authorities to make full and effective use of european funds, which are often underused or badly used. only in this way can we bring reality closer to the objectives set in the europe 2020 strategy. the report is moving in that direction and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the measure refers to the commission's 2015 annual growth survey, which focused on employment and social aspects, based on three main aspects: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms. the european semester provides detailed macroeconomic and structural budgetary reforms of the eu member states. i am satisfied with the measure and i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the european semester for economic policy coordination because it provides a detailed analysis of the eu member states' plans for budgetary, macroeconomic and structural reforms. with reference to the commission's 2015 annual growth survey, which focuses in particular on employment and social aspects, i am in favour of the three-pillar approach (boosting investment, accelerating structural reforms and pursuing responsible fiscal consolidation). i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination dealing with the annual analysis of employment and social aspects for 2015, for the reasons set out below. economic growth in europe remains fragile despite upward estimates of a growth rate of 1.1% in 2015 compared to 0.8% in 2014. the path taken to consolidate public accounts has prevented member states from achieving the targets set in the europe 2020 strategy, demonstrating once again that fiscal policies cannot follow a one-size-fits-all approach, but must take into account the microeconomics and the state of health of public accounts in the various member states. the increasing complementarity of the european economy with the now major us and asian economies, and the simultaneous weakness of the internal market, have led to an unemployment rate of 21.2%, of which 75% is young people under 35. the community strategy based on fiscal adjustment, structural reforms and the strengthening of investment for growth appears to be in line with the need to revive the european macroeconomy, which, however, cannot do without private investment.
in writing. ‒ regarding the council and commission statements on the european semester for economic policy coordination: annual growth analysis 2015, i am voting against because, following long and difficult negotiations with the rapporteur, the text has been slightly amended but not to the extent that it is acceptable. in particular, the text is too pleased with the measures adopted after the crisis and fails to recognise that austerity measures have stifled growth. the text, in our view, is based on an optimistic approach to the future growth prospects and the added value that the efsi can bring. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the level of the compensation for the costs of the infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ given that the latest data available for 2013 show us a europe on its knees, with as many as 25% of citizens at risk of poverty and social exclusion, we can well understand how the austerity measures promoted by the commission and carried out in the member states through the individual national structural reform plans are failing and even exacerbating a socioeconomic crisis, which we believe can only be stopped by measures aimed at establishing a minimum wage system throughout the union. this is a further example of a europe where, in 2012, only half of men aged 55 to 65 were in employment, so it would seem necessary to guarantee a minimum income also in order to achieve the poverty reduction targets set in the europe 2020 strategy; but unfortunately this need is not perceived as such and is therefore welcomed in this text, which is good in many respects, which is why i am voting against it.
in writing. ‒ i strongly oppose yet another report by the committee on the internal market which supports the commission's approach to trade policies which we regard as failing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and i thank mr prieto because, despite widespread optimism from the community institutions, which keep telling us that growth will be achieved, in many member states the recovery is still not taking place. what we are seeing are rather negative growth rates, still very high unemployment levels, a high proportion of the union's population at risk of poverty. the gap between the centre and the periphery of the union has widened, signalling the failure of cohesion policy, the most important european policy in terms of resources and political significance. i agree with the recipe proposed by my colleague. the current socioeconomic situation requires action on the labour market to expand human capital. we need long-term investment plans in strategic sectors. and above all, we will never tire of saying that these investments must be separated from the deficit calculation.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by mr sergio gutiérrez prieto, as it contains useful guidelines for the implementation of a responsible investment policy which can guarantee employment growth at the same time. the european union must commit itself to promoting a model of social market economy that can guarantee sustainable growth and ensure the creation of jobs for european citizens and especially for our young people.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the report on the european semester for the coordination of economic, employment and social policies in the annual growth survey 2015. as the european economic recovery remains fragile at present, fiscal consolidation compatible with growth remains of paramount importance. working hard to improve social and economic policies can lead to many positive results: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european monetary institute. the 25.1% of the eu population currently at risk of poverty and social exclusion also needs to be addressed. we need development and policies that best support the economy and allow for a general recovery, increased productivity and a regaining of confidence.
in writing. ‒ the european union must commit itself to implementing a social and market economy model that can ensure sustainable growth. i thought it appropriate to support the gutiérrez prieto report by voting in favour of it, because i believe that it contains the right guidelines for a responsible investment policy.
in writing. ‒ with this report, we support the integrated approach to growth recently adopted by the european commission, which is based on three main pillars: the commission is also proposing a new investment plan for europe, structural reforms and fiscal responsibility. we call for an ambitious economic policy that remains within the existing rules of the stability and growth pact, but is also capable of stimulating smart and inclusive growth and creating better and sustainable jobs. we also call on the commission to take urgent action to combat social dumping, fraud and tax evasion. we express, once again, our deep concern at the limited role played by the european parliament, national parliaments and social partners and civil society organisations in formulating, monitoring and implementing the economic and social priorities of the european semester. we therefore reiterate our call for greater and more structured involvement of civil society and social partners at eu and national level in order to enhance the legitimacy of the european semester process through the development of concrete democratically recognised guidelines.
in writing. ‒ in his report, mr gutiérrez prieto welcomed the annual growth analysis which opens the cycle of coordination of the economic policies of the member states. the central theme of this year's review is to put europe back on a sustainable path of economic growth and job creation. the report recommends that the commission pursue an economic and social policy based on three main pillars: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the new financial perspective for the european union. in the light of the above, i have decided to support the report because i believe that an ambitious expansionary economic and fiscal policy, within the existing rules of the stability and growth pact, is indispensable to stimulate smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to create better and sustainable jobs. i also believe that the approach proposed is the right one, but i would point out that it is essential to support the efforts of the member states to carry out not only fiscal consolidation but also structural reforms in a socially balanced and economically efficient and sustainable way.
in writing. ‒ whereas europe must commit itself to a social market economy model that ensures sustainable growth in order to secure jobs for the future generation instead of debt; that the economic and social environment in the eu remains bleak and that, according to the commission's autumn 2014 economic forecast, the economic recovery remains fragile; that the sustained pace of fiscal consolidation imposed during the economic crisis has hampered member states in achieving the europe 2020 objectives, which demonstrates that fiscal policies should be differentiated and adapted to the situation of each member state; stressing the need for structural reforms in the member states; i would like to thank the commission for its work on the proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas.
in writing. i decided to vote against because the report criticises the negative impact of 'austerity' on employment, but only because it is so obvious that it cannot be concealed any longer. the text reaffirms the commission's support for a three-pronged approach (re-launching investment, structural reforms and austerity), which is to say: i cure the flu by inoculating the patient with other pathogenic viruses.
in writing. ‒ since 2011, the european semester has allowed member states to coordinate economic policies and efforts to promote growth, jobs and investment in the eu. i believe that the report adopted today provides clear guidelines not only for initiating the necessary structural reforms of the labour market but also for drawing attention to the importance of the social dimension of european policies for growth. i would, however, be more cautious about the introduction of a minimum income, which is explicitly mentioned in several parts of the report. while achieving the europe 2020 strategy target of reducing by at least 20 million people at risk of or in situations of poverty and social exclusion by the end of the decade is a priority for the eu, i believe that it is primarily up to the member states to carefully assess the most appropriate instruments to ensure their citizens a decent job and standard of living. i think it is essential to safeguard the principle of subsidiarity and thus ensure that the specific characteristics of the member states and their socioeconomic contexts are taken into account in the definition of welfare policies.
in writing. this resolution on employment and social aspects in the annual growth review could have been a good opportunity to question a model of economic policy coordination and crisis management which has proved to be completely counterproductive and unsustainable, especially from a social point of view. unfortunately, beyond the noble declarations of intent, this resolution shows instead that it wants to support the same approach that has clearly failed to promote smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. although there are positive and acceptable points in the report, such as the focus on small and medium-sized enterprises, the problem of inequalities and social stabilizers, there is still too much of a belief that the strategy for bringing europe out of the crisis must be based on recipes from the past, namely the combination of private capital, structural reforms and fiscal consolidation (austerity laws). the resolution also fails to incorporate our proposal to introduce a european citizenship income, which would be an extraordinary economic manoeuvre to boost the real economy and facilitate the reintegration into employment of millions of people who continue to lose their jobs.
in writing. ‒ the internal market commission's report on the european semester is based on a series of overly optimistic and self-serving statements. there is no mention of the costs of the eu and of those internal market failures which generate unsustainable costs for our companies and local authorities. the rapporteur's reference to competition in the services sector is not to be counted, and he does not criticise existing european measures. i have been fighting for years against the reckless application of the bolkestein directive which is killing off both the bathing and the tourist sectors in italy. for all these reasons i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the text is based on a series of very vague and purely instrumental statements. but there is no mention or criticism of the costs which this europe and its rules impose on our businesses and local authorities. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2015. i consider the single market and the digital single market to be two fundamental tools for boosting economic growth and job creation in the european union. further development of the single market can also support more traditional growth drivers such as promoting investment in research and development, particularly in the sme sector, and in training and education. the report i voted for stressed the need to strengthen the governance of the single market within the european semester as a horizontal priority of the various union policies, to ensure the proper balance between the economic, social and environmental dimensions, and to improve the quality of the transposition, implementation and application of the rules governing it.
in writing. ‒ the failure to complete the market deprives producers and consumers of the rights that should be guaranteed to them and at the same time constitutes a brake on the economy. the digital single market, which has a great deal of potential, is particularly noteworthy, but it still faces problems of reluctance to create a genuine single market that can be exploited as such.
in writing. ‒ the measure aims to increase the integration of the single market. it must be supported and encouraged because i am sure it gives the european union the status of a world economic power. i have seen that the potential of the single market has not yet been realised. one solution could be for the european union to help member states to become more active in crossborder exchanges in the service sector. urgent measures are needed to keep pace with the digital technologies that are constantly evolving. i thought i would vote for the measure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it sets as a shared objective the growth of the integration of the single market, which should be encouraged because it is precisely the single market that gives the european union the status of a world economic power. however, i do not think that the single market is realising its full potential at the moment. the european union needs to help member states to implement many more crossborder trade in services and it needs to take urgent measures to keep pace with the constantly evolving digital technologies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the governance of the single market in the context of the 2015 european semester, as it presents a plan of measures aimed at ensuring the full realisation of a functioning, digital and effective single market as an accelerator of sustainable economic growth and the development of competitiveness. the social and economic policies adopted by the european union are designed to stimulate public and private investment, develop new projects with a particular focus on the needs of smes and job creation, and provide tangible benefits to citizens. in order to achieve the objectives set out above, i believe that close cooperation between the european parliament and national parliaments and a clear commitment by the european institutions to strengthen economic governance and partnership in the single market are necessary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that the coordination of economic and employment policies within the single market is of paramount importance for growth and the state of the integration process. the implementation and enforcement of these provisions can play a decisive role in contributing to economic recovery. however, effective implementation of the single market rules by member states is necessary to achieve tangible results.
in writing. ‒ the crisis has shown that the governance of the single market also needs urgent reform to restore lost competitiveness and to realise its full potential. i therefore voted in favour of today's resolution which aims to create a transparent and reliable reference framework, based on a periodic assessment of the state of the single market and greater political accountability at member state level in the context of a renewed subsidiarity.
in writing. mr gáll-pelcz's report offers a very interesting perspective in the context of our reflection today on the european semester procedure for the coordination of economic policies. the measures resulting from the completion of the internal market are decisive, both economic and social policy measures, in ensuring the implementation of effective instruments for growth and employment. i would like to stress in particular some of the significant aspects which have led me to support the report of my colleague very strongly. the emphasis on completing the digital single market seems to me to be particularly important and essential to stimulate growth, create quality jobs, keep the european economy globally competitive and bring benefits to both businesses and consumers. in this context, ensuring a high level of investment in broadband networks will be crucial to achieving the objectives and priorities in the key area of the digital market. the completion of the digital single market - there are many studies to back this up - could produce an additional 0.4% gdp growth (i.e. €520 billion) by 2020, with an increase in employment of around 0.1%, equivalent to the creation of over 223 000 jobs by 2020. these are certainly very important and ambitious objectives, but we could achieve them if the strategic priorities of future european investment were to be directed in a significant and efficient way towards this end.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because if we think that the completion of the digital single market alone would be enough to produce an additional 0.4% of gdp growth and the creation of over 223 000 jobs by 2020, we realise that the completion of the single market, in all its variations, is the priority of the european political agenda. the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy are ambitious, but europe cannot just set goals; it must also create the instruments, show the way to achieve them. the single market is one of those roads. provided that it is a real market, that it invests in the training of individuals and businesses to prepare them for the digital age, that it completes the single transport market, that it develops the single energy market. it's a market of 500 million people, it's our economic strength. good governance includes strong leadership by all european institutions and a clear political ownership by member states.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr gáll-pelcz's report focuses on the need to help member states to increase crossborder trade in services and to take urgent measures to keep pace with new digital technologies. in order to achieve a more transparent governance of the european single market, i believe that a transparent framework should be established, which adequately reflects the possible outcomes of the implementation of the rules in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2015. in view of the need to improve the governance of the single market and the importance of economic and regulatory efficiency, this report makes a positive contribution. it is clear that modernising public administration can bring benefits both by eliminating bureaucracy and by removing regulatory obstacles. the digital single market, including e-commerce, is a key sector for growth. an integrated approach to problem solving and a solution to the worryingly low levels of private investment are essential. the europe 2020 strategy is designed to stimulate sustainable growth and the resulting creation of jobs, and therefore requires a constant and intensified commitment on these points.
in writing. ‒ in order to ensure clearer and more rigorous governance of the european single market, a transparent framework should be established, which adequately reflects the possible outcomes of the implementation of the rules within the member states of the european union. i have decided to vote in favour of the gáll-pelcz report because i think it focuses adequately on the need to support member states in their efforts to increase crossborder trade in services. i particularly appreciated the reference in the document to the need to take urgent measures to ensure the development of digital technologies.
in writing. ‒ the coordination of economic and employment policies of all member states, as envisaged by the european semester, should include a key chapter on possible levers to stimulate the real economy, which would otherwise be left out of the agreement. in this respect, we believe that the single market pillar can cover a well-defined set of priorities and key areas of growth. we therefore support the rapporteur's position that the work of the competitiveness council should be organised in a targeted manner, so that the priorities relevant to the real economy are explicitly included in the european semester. achieving these priorities is essential to boost growth and jobs and to close the current gap in achieving the europe 2020 targets, while fully exploiting the potential of the single market to ensure economic convergence between member states inside and outside the euro area, as well as in the eu's core and peripheral sectors. the italian presidency's initiative on a new 'internal market approach' (new aim), in the context of the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy, is certainly a step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ this report, part of a package of three reports on the european semester 2015, specifically examines the state of play of the single market integration process. the recent crisis has shown that the eu needs to restore its competitiveness: the study on the cost of non-europe has been a useful tool for understanding how there is untapped potential to be exploited in areas such as cross-border trade and technological change. the relaunch of the single market is therefore aimed at restarting the economic engine, employment and growth in europe, with the aim also of improving the quality of life of european citizens. i have decided to support the report in a positive way because i believe that for the market to really get going again, we need to work on the key issues identified in the report, namely the digital agenda, the free movement of goods and services, the consumer acquis, public procurement and concessions, and thus remove the existing barriers so that everyone can enjoy the rights and freedoms of the european single market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the governance of the single market because i believe it contains important guidelines needed to give new impetus to the european economy. the european union starts with economic union. the single market has been the main engine of european integration but, more than 20 years after its creation, it has not been fully completed because of delays in the member states' transposition of community legislation. a holistic approach involving all european sectoral policies is needed to strengthen the area of free movement and stimulate economic recovery by attracting private investment and creating jobs. administrative easing would facilitate access to finance, particularly in the areas of research and innovation, the main lever for ensuring a high level of european competitiveness in the world. single and integrated indicators would provide more appropriate criteria for assessing market performance and making ad hoc recommendations for different member states. the current international situation shows that europe is vulnerable from the energy point of view. concrete steps in this direction are needed. the europe 2020 targets are a challenge and an essential driver for growth, sustainability, employment and security in europe.
in writing. ‒ whereas, in the context of the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy, the single market and the digital single market should be seen as two key tools to boost economic growth and quality job creation in the eu, while ensuring complementarity with more traditional growth drivers such as, for example, promoting investment in r&d&i, training and education, while paying particular attention to the needs of smes; that the single market strategy requires a holistic approach that takes into account the concerns of citizens, consumers and smes; that a properly functioning and effective single market, based on a sustainable and highly innovative and competitive social market economy, is necessary to boost sustainable growth and competitiveness, attract investment, promote social cohesion and create jobs, in order to reinvigorate the european economy; i therefore call on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the single market is governed by the principles of the treaty and the treaty of amsterdam.
in writing. ‒ the completion of the single market is crucial to the success of the european project and to europe's economic recovery. the community institutions are doing a great deal to ensure that it is implemented, but we must also monitor its implementation in the member states which too often impede or burden community legislation. this is why the ec must resume a constant analysis, based on clear indicators, of the remaining shortcomings.
in writing. i have decided to vote against because in the case of this report we are faced with a series of very vague statements. in my view, the imco committee is making too optimistic assumptions about the contribution that further development of the internal market and the digital single market can make to the growth of the european union's economy. in addition, too many references are made to the content of the study - clearly partial and instrumental - commissioned by the imco committee on the 'cost of non-europe in the single market'. on the contrary, there is no mention of the costs which this europe and its rules, including many of those relating to the internal market, impose on our companies and local authorities.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the governance of the single market in the european semester. i find that establishing annual governance cycles can improve the management of the single market and that this ultimately increases social cohesion, attracts investment and strengthens sustainable growth. i conclude by stressing the need for this new pillar of the european semester to focus on clear priorities linked to the real economy.
in writing. the economic policy coordination semester has been characterised in recent years by the cold severity with which the european commission imposes stifling rules on the member states. rules too often inspired only by austerity, which constrain national autonomy and sovereignty. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european semester should be the time to check how far we are in building the single market we have been pursuing for some time, in which all consumers are given equal rights and guarantees, so that our common membership of the european house becomes a source of opportunities and not just obligations. in particular, concrete initiatives to support domestic demand must be coordinated, paying particular attention to the needs of the most vulnerable consumers, in order to create a large market where the same rules really apply to all. electronic transactions, especially cross-border ones, are becoming increasingly important. if we are to encourage these activities, we must give uniformity and consistency to the regulatory framework: in fact, online consumers must be guaranteed a level of protection equal to that to which they are accustomed in the traditional market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which not only represents the best compromise among the texts presented by the different political groups, but above all focuses on the call for closer cooperation between europol and national authorities to combat the commercial exploitation of children online and the removal of the most potentially dangerous content for children from the network.
in writing. ‒ the text is free from criticism and represents the best compromise of the texts submitted by the various groups. the fight against online child abuse is a theme that unites all meps.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the sexual abuse of children online. i regret to note that less than half of the member states have implemented directive 2011/93/eu on combating the sexual abuse and exploitation of children and child pornography, which was due to be transposed by the member states on 18 december 2013. this circumstance makes me realize how far the problem is from the solution. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of minors against the risks of harmful content on the internet, in particular by ensuring that minors are not exposed to the risk of being subjected to harmful content on the internet. it is painful to note that according to information provided by ngos on internet pages containing material relating to child abuse, over 80% of the victims are under the age of 10. therefore, i strongly urge member states to make every effort to transpose directive 2011/93/eu and call on the commission to closely monitor the full and effective implementation of the directive.
in writing. ‒ data from both ngos and institutional bodies clearly show that the use of the internet can have significant negative consequences. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. the instruments developed so far have not proved to be adequate, and it is therefore important that a joint effort be made, at european and national level, to turn the tide.
in writing. ‒ with the spread of the internet, child abuse and sexual exploitation have multiplied, often for profit, with new business models of commercial distribution and types of transactions. tools such as chat rooms, forums, live streaming, the underground internet, the darknet, encrypted images and videos offer unprecedented opportunities for enrichment and enrichment, while making it easier, more profitable and more difficult to discover activities that are often very serious to the detriment of minors. and it turns out that over 80% of the victims are under 10 years old. the resolution also urges states to implement important directives that have expired or are about to expire (directive 92/2011 on the prevention of the sexual abuse and exploitation of children, expiring in 2013, and directive 29/2012 on victims). invites the libe commission to examine in depth the current framework for combating sexual abuse of children; identifies various measures to combat such phenomena, including through a system of information exchange between all parties involved, including internet providers and banks; and, on the other hand, to protect victims, starting with the complete removal of material circulating online, to prevent secondary or 'chronic' victimization. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the sexual abuse and exploitation of children through the internet, i believe it is a problem that must be fought with maximum energy. the measure under consideration provides for important measures to combat such exploitation. in particular, i believe that cyber predators should be prosecuted so that they cannot threaten young people or minors through extortion and psychological blackmail. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because the sexual exploitation of children and the sexual abuse of children online continue to be a matter of great concern to me, and i strongly support all initiatives aimed at combating such exploitation. i believe in particular that all young people who are persuaded or forced to send or publish sexually explicit images of themselves should be protected, because this allows cyber predators to blackmail children, with a reckless use of psychological violence that must be condemned.
in writing. ‒ the sexual abuse and exploitation of children, including child abuse images, constitute serious violations of fundamental rights, in particular the right of children to protection and care necessary for their well-being. furthermore, the international nature of the problem child exploitation and sexual exploitation of children online affects hundreds of countries and involves hundreds of jurisdictions and law enforcement authorities requires an international solution. i therefore agree and voted in favour of the directive which, among other things, stresses the need to take measures to combat online addiction of minors and believes that the commission, together with national governments, civil society, social media companies, parents, teachers, social workers, child protection officers, paediatricians and child and adolescent care organisations, should play an active role in raising awareness of the issue through guidance, including the exchange of good practice and the creation of social platforms for cooperation and exchange of information on the subject, with a view to identifying potential risks and threats to minors.
in writing. ‒ i support this joint resolution by the various groups calling for more attention to the internet/children duo and to combat the commercial sexual exploitation of children online.
in writing. ‒ young people are our most valuable resource, our future: it's how a society protects them that you understand humanity and the value of it. 91% of minors in the eu have access to the internet and the number of hours that children aged 12 to 15 spend online each week increased from 14,9 in 2011 to 17,1 in 2012, an increase of almost 15%. the virtual environment, because of its peculiarities, is increasingly dangerous for minors who are being lured here by increasingly subtle and technically advanced means. in the light of these facts, it is now more important than ever that measures are taken at eu level to ensure safe online access for all children and that the tools to identify and punish the perpetrators of one of the most reprehensible and heinous crimes imaginable are increased. for these reasons i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which tackles this dramatic problem with a pragmatic and practical approach.
in writing. i fully share and support the resolution of the european parliament on combating child pornography and the abuse of children online. access to modern technology represents a rich potential, informative and accessible to all, but we must put in place all the tools to prevent risks and pitfalls for children, who could too easily underestimate the risks involved. in line with the eu agenda for the rights of the child adopted in 2011, the un convention on the rights of the child and, above all, directive 93 of 2011, europe should confirm its role as guarantor of citizens' rights and in particular of the well-being and protection of children, by taking all measures to ensure that children have access to information under control, protecting them from the many potential hidden threats associated with it, such as sexual harassment, bullying, inducement to exploitation, trafficking in child pornography images or videos, death threats and harassment to which children can be exposed all too easily thanks to the ambiguity of anonymity, the dark web or encrypted languages. europe should act to limit the dangers of the internet to children through increased monitoring, cooperation and the transnational exchange of information between national law enforcement authorities, europol and the european cybercrime centre. we will strengthen legislative coordination to block and immediately report illegal content online, promote effective information campaigns for minors, but also for schools and parents, and work towards the effective transposition of directive 2011/93 by all member states.
in writing. ‒ the debate of the past few days has once again confirmed the political role of the parliament as an authoritative bulwark against any violation of human rights, especially if the victims show a particular vulnerability. so let the members of the european parliament always and in every circumstance stand by the children. the digital violence against children through modern technologies is a threat to the human capital of our children, for whom every level of responsibility must be called. the responsibility of our legislators, of all the european institutions and of the governments of the member states, which are called upon to take all appropriate measures to suppress this situation, goes hand in hand with the responsibility of the education agencies. the awareness of all levels of education and training institutions, including the families who are the first actors in the educational process, can and must be the useful strategy for creating an effective protection network against the violence of images and words. my vote is in favour of the content of the resolution.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution because the monsters must be stopped. the data is alarming. abuse is increasing, the age of the victims is decreasing, violence is increasing. and what we know is just the trends. we know the tragedy of online abuse, but we are not fully aware of the extent of this disturbing phenomenon. what can we do to protect our children, our future? first of all, we need to strengthen police resources and international cooperation, so that no one can hide behind a computer, we need to attack the dark web. then we need to involve the itc business world, so that no one feels left out. finally, we need to educate and raise awareness about the safe use of the internet. to raise awareness of the potential of the network, but also of the risks it entails. the network is by its nature agile and fast. the protection must travel at the same speed as the vehicle.
in writing. ‒ with this vote, the european parliament has strongly reaffirmed the need to ensure that the rights of the most vulnerable members of our society - children - are respected. every country has a responsibility to protect children from any form of abuse, by any means possible. we call for more efforts to protect children, especially on the internet, through awareness campaigns for parents, because the issue of the dissemination of children's data online is still too underestimated, but also through the development of new technologies that can eliminate the scourge of child pornography that spreads in the darkest corners of the web. however, this cannot happen without the active cooperation of web service providers and the telecommunications industry. 80% of child victims are under 10 years old. we can no longer tolerate such barbarism. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the european development fund (edf) and the european regional development fund (erdf). hate crimes are difficult to prosecute in a transnational dimension and we must respond to them with a strong global alliance against abuse.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the resolution on combating the sexual abuse of children online as it highlights the strong need to protect the rights of children by adopting measures specifically aimed at combating certain dangerous practices, such as the exploitation of children through the online network. the internet is clearly a resource to be exploited, but unfortunately it is also a place where children, sometimes unattended, are exposed to risks of sexual exploitation, including through images of child abuse. for these reasons, i strongly support the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the motion for a resolution on combating the sexual abuse of children online. this is one of the essential objectives of the european union and an essential point to be supported with the utmost firmness. there is a need for safeguards to safeguard the rights of minors online and for child-friendly information to make the safeguards effective. an integrated and coordinated european approach will make it possible to combat the networking of minors; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the new trend of commercial sexual exploitation must be fought and live-streaming abuse is a reality that must be fought in a strong and decisive way by removing all illegal content online.
in writing. ‒ we have a moral duty and a political responsibility to ensure that all community citizens have adequate protection for their security, freedom and dignity. this is all the more true for children, whose level of knowledge and judgment is limited. the data that the number of abuses against children is growing exponentially, due to the epidemic spread of the internet, is sufficient to justify a mobilization of the european institutions, with the aim of curbing this disturbing trend. the rise of the phenomenon requires a shared response, with common criteria for action on legal online interception. it is for all these reasons that i have felt it necessary to support this resolution, in which the european parliament strongly condemns this alarming reality.
in writing. ‒ the sexual abuse and exploitation of children constitute serious violations of fundamental rights (un convention on the rights of the child and eu charter of fundamental rights). we believe that it is important to promote all measures to adequately protect the personal data of minors online, highlighting the need for a coordinated and global european approach, ensuring consistency in policy-making and subsequent action, including the fight against crime, fundamental rights, privacy, data protection, cybersecurity, consumer protection, electronic commerce. the commission and national governments are called upon to raise awareness through defined guidelines, the exchange of best practice, the establishment of social platforms for cooperation and the legitimate exchange of information to identify potential risks to children. any measure restricting fundamental rights on the internet must be necessary and proportionate, in line with eu and member state law; illegal content online must be removed immediately, on the basis of regular procedures. the commission is also requested to provide the european parliament with a report on the implementation of the directive 2011/92/eu on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the union institutions and bodies and on the application of the law on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the union institutions and bodies.
in writing. ‒ the advent of the internet and new technologies in general has radically changed the landscape of a not new phenomenon: the sexual abuse of minors. hundreds of thousands of child pornography images and videos are circulating on the internet, often easily accessible. the material can be produced with extreme ease, using mobile phones or video cameras, and just as easily uploaded to the network. the network can also be used by adults with a sexual interest in minors as a tool to lure potential victims. in view of this, i have voted in favour of the resolution calling on the commission and the member states to make further efforts to combat such child abuse. i also welcome the joint initiative of the eu and 55 countries to form the global alliance against child sexual abuse on the internet. the aim of the initiative is to save more victims, ensure more effective prosecution of perpetrators, raise awareness of the issue in society and lead to an overall reduction in the amount of child pornography material available online.
in writing. ‒ the abuse and exploitation of children is one of the most flagrant violations of fundamental rights, as it is perpetrated against human beings who are by nature innocent and defenceless. the use of the internet has not only allowed the problem to become more acute - putting children at greater risk of online harassment by cybercriminals - but has also given this phenomenon a transnational dimension, which necessarily requires a solution of equal scope. the search for a more effective strategy for the protection of children's rights must involve increased cooperation and include the exchange of best practices between member states. i am therefore voting in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the sexual abuse of children online, because i believe that only a coordinated approach at european level between institutional bodies, civil society and companies operating in the information technology and social media sectors can result in improved measures to prevent, combat and respond to such violations.
in writing. ‒ whereas children are the most vulnerable group in our society and the legislator must pay particular attention to them in order to protect them; that particular attention should be paid to the correct use of terminology relating to the sexual exploitation of children in communication to the public; takes note that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european union for the financial year 2012, has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the underlying transactions are legal and regular; calls on the commission and the member states to promote and strengthen the resources dedicated to victim identification and victim-centred services, urging the rapid establishment of platforms and strengthening existing ones within europol; stresses, moreover, the urgent need to improve assistance to child victims of abuse through personalised recovery and reintegration programmes; calls on the member states to implement directive 2012/29/eu establishing minimum standards on the rights, assistance and protection of victims of crime. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that the important resolution on combating the sexual abuse of children online was adopted by a very large majority. the protection of children and the obligation to provide them with a safe environment for their development must be one of the eu's priority objectives. this is why we must act with utmost firmness and effectiveness in taking measures to ensure that any illegal content posted online is removed and reported to the competent authorities and that adequate legal means are available to investigate the perpetrators of the offences. to achieve the best results, it is essential that there is better international cooperation and that transnational investigations can be carried out effectively with appropriate agreements. i hope that directive 2011/93/eu on combating the sexual abuse and exploitation of children and child pornography will be transposed as soon as possible by all member states and that the commission will monitor its full and complete implementation.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of this report because it is free from criticism and is the best of the proposals put forward by the various political groups. the committee also calls for greater cooperation between the various authorities in the member states and europol, including the rapid removal of content on the internet which is harmful to children. in addition, there are references to the need to combat the sexual exploitation of children.
in writing. ‒ in the resolution voted in strasbourg today, we called for further efforts to tackle online sexual abuse of children, prosecute the perpetrators, protect the victims and remove illegal content from the internet. the data provided by ngos on internet pages containing material concerning child abuse is chilling; 80% of the victims are under the age of ten. unfortunately, the prevention measures adopted by the member states so far have not always been effective, which is why a more global approach is needed, and international cooperation and transnational investigations must be strengthened, since each country has different laws on the matter. there is certainly a need for more education and awareness-raising among children about the potential risks of the network, and for measures to ensure that the social media sector takes its share of responsibility.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased with today's vote. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of minors against sexual exploitation. we must not forget that children are the most sensitive and vulnerable group in our society and it is our duty to protect them from the dangers of the internet and new technologies. in particular, i believe it is essential to stress the need for all parts of directive 2011/93/eu on combating the sexual abuse and exploitation of children to be transposed by all member states, as it is no longer acceptable or justifiable that more than half of them have not yet done so. consistent and comprehensive policies are needed that lead to effective results and involve, in close synergy, national law enforcement agencies, europol and the service providers themselves.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the murder of a human being must always be condemned. of course the league condemns it and we hope the guilty ones rot in jail. that said, this chamber either scares me or makes me laugh. what right does this chamber have to try putin and the russian people? to decide who is a democrat and who is a dictator? this europe has nothing democratic about it. this europe is dangerous. this europe incites to war and violence. the support for the arab spring, which you supported, is a good thing, and now in half of africa and in much of asia extremists and cutthroats are in charge. it is good for you to talk to turkey, which has occupied a member state of the european union for 40 years, which jails journalists and fills us with hundreds of illegal immigrants every week. you speak of hatred and i don't know if you understood or if you are accomplices and deploy missiles, tanks and military on the border with russia. you talk about work and impose unnecessary and idiotic economic sanctions which harm the russian people and thousands of italian and european workers and entrepreneurs. we need to talk to russia, we need to trade with russia, we need to discuss with russia, we need to work together against islamic terrorism: but you prefer to play war games, you prefer to support trade wars that are convenient for others. you are paid to look after europe, you are paid to give europeans jobs and a future, not to export your dirty democracy around the world, not least because what you have done in recent years has not brought any positive results. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i believe that russia is certainly much more democratic than the european union as it is set up today, which is a sham democracy. it's polite to ask a question and then to mumble it politely over coffee. i'm giving you my opinion, if you're interested in democracy. i would instead take putin to half the european countries that are badly governed by supposedly elected prime ministers, who are not elected by anyone but are remote controlled by someone else.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president putin's patriotic rhetoric demands that the international community politically recognize the great power status of contemporary russia. the tragic barbaric murder of political leader boris nemtsov two days before the liberal demonstration organized by the opposition constitutes a new test. the independence and impartiality of the russian judiciary, and the guarantee and protection of the rule of law have been the subject of serious and serious doubts for too long. we therefore hope for timely and transparent investigations and fair trials, which will finally dispel a controversial reputation, also because of some other murders mentioned by the high representative mogherini - i am thinking in the first place of the murder of anna politkovskaya, for example. as the european union, we believe in a strong and democratic civil society, pluralistic and participatory, and this is an objective for which we are also working with our partners, including russia. the frankness and openness of the dialogue with the russian federation make it necessary for us to take an interest in this tragic event.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the brutal murder of boris nemtsov is a heinous crime and as such must be condemned in no uncertain terms, and i express my condolences and our closeness to his family. nor can it ever be our intention to remain silent about any threat to freedom of expression or even to pluralism and media freedom, as well as any violation of human rights, in russia and wherever it may be. our consistency demands it. unfortunately, however, i do not see this enthusiasm and passion and the presence of so many colleagues when we discuss urgent resolutions on human rights on thursday mornings or when we vote on dossiers such as conflict minerals. it is a pity that there are more "human" human rights than others, it is a pity indeed: but what good is all this cold war rhetoric that so many of you have evoked today? have you ever thought that this very demonization ends up being exactly the best support for putin's nationalist rhetoric, which is just the other side of the coin? i call on russia today to carry out credible investigations and to really ensure a fair and impartial trial, not only for nemtsov but also for all the other controversial and unresolved cases. but we too must refrain from prejudice and create an even darker atmosphere.
in writing. the killing of russian opposition leader boris nemtsov casts another deep shadow on the state of democracy in russia. moscow is a decisive economic and political partner for the european union, and that is why the gradual dismantling of political freedoms in the country cannot be tolerated. parliament reiterated its support for the democratic forces in russia which are committed to an open society and a reform programme. parliament rightly urges the council to define a united policy towards russia, stressing the priority of human rights and the need for concrete actions to put an end to the repression of freedom of expression, assembly and association. we have already said this recently in the emergency human rights resolution on the navalny case: the commission and the european external action service should develop a more ambitious support programme for russian civil society in russia and identify new opportunities to engage in dialogue to promote the values of democracy, human rights and the rule of law. at this very stage of programming the union's financial instruments, every effort should be made to increase financial assistance to russian civil society through the european instrument for democracy and human rights, as well as funding for civil society organisations and local authorities, and to include the eu-russia civil society forum in the partnership instrument in order to ensure sustainable and credible long-term support.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very interesting report to deal with, especially in a situation of global instability so profound that it has not been seen for the last 70 years. i will never cease to remind all my colleagues that the review of the european neighbourhood policy must emphasize the complete and total equality of dignity between the southern and the northern neighbourhoods in all its aspects - legal, political and financial. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism, and that it is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. the point is, in fact, what role we want to carve out for this instrument. do we want to make him a human rights officer for the un? do we want to make it a model for peacekeeping? we must not forget that the european union is a political union, a political union of nations, a political union of peoples, a political union of nations. well, we're here and we're ready to discuss it. if, on the other hand, the objectives are purely economic, we must not and cannot... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, high representative mogherini, rapporteur, i think we have an important report today in which we must take up more of the heartfelt appeal made to us yesterday in this house by the king of jordan, who reminded us that europe has a fundamental mission in the troubled mediterranean landscape: the european union is a major player in the world economy. i believe that this is the premise of a foreign and security policy, because we know that we must win together - as the hashemite monarch asked us to do - together with the arab peoples, not only the fundamentalists, who threaten muslims above all and persecute christian communities, but also those fundamentalists who, even in europe, do not respect the meaning and the interreligious dialogue. that is why i think that in parliament too, as well as in foreign policy - and i know that federica mogherini is interested in cultural policy - we must work more for cultural diplomacy, for the coordination of these policies, also through the cultural institutes of the member states in third countries and reflect on the educational policies of migration policies.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament's report on human rights is an important tool for assessing the policies of the european union. i would like to stress at the outset the important work done by the special representative. we have chosen a thematic approach to this report rather than a geographical one, and we think it is very useful because it sets out some guidelines on which to base the european parliament, the european commission itself and the individual commissioners in their policies. ladies and gentlemen, in 1872 a small classic of legal liberalism appeared in vienna, the struggle for right, by rudolf von jhering, which was republished as an antibody to the years of fascism in my country by benedetto croce. today it is certainly more appropriate to speak of the struggle for rights, which extends from the defence of social and civil rights to the protests of young people in hong kong and which can be summed up in the words of hannah arendt, the "right to have rights". but to avoid this being just a slogan, we must remember that phrase in its entirety: "the right to have rights, or the right of every individual to belong to humanity, should be guaranteed by humanity itself". it is quite clear that the construction of rights is thus a challenge and requires a policy of humanity, the opposite of that policy of disgust which some have spoken of in the case of discrimination against homosexuals, but which we find in too many cases of rejection of the other. in our time, rights are being presented as a luxury incompatible with the economic crisis, the decline in financial resources and the need for internal stability in some countries - i am thinking of our neighbouring countries. but i wonder: the moment the promise of rights is not fulfilled or is removed, what are we saying goodbye to? when you restrict rights to work, health, education, civil rights, you are undermining the very foundations of a democracy. it is not rights that are insatiable: the problem is the claim of the economy to determine what rights are compatible with it. so reflection on rights brings us to the heart of a cultural debate that goes beyond contingency and reveals how references to the economic crisis and the new geopolitics have only made more evident a much deeper transformation and conflict, which concern the very way in which we should look at the evolution of our societies, of the global society itself. the report is intended to send a simple message: rights do not invade democracy but require us to reflect on how political discretion should be exercised: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so there's a lot to do, and ultimately i think europe's job is to rise to the challenge, to show the consistency that's needed to really win this human rights challenge everywhere.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too welcome the report and the work carried out by mr panzeri, a difficult and voluminous work, a very long report, dealing with a number of very different subjects. i appreciated the thematic approach to the country catalogue which gave rise to further endless discussions and political position-taking. it is certainly true, as some have observed, that something more could have been done: but the starting point is pretty good in my opinion. it is very welcome that, at a time when the european union's external action is increasingly based on the negotiating premise of respect for human rights in third countries where it is going to operate, it is precisely in this context that efforts are being made to establish a firm basis for respect for these rights. it would be desirable if this could be done with really binding clauses and with really effective control instruments, because our resolutions are often not followed by real action and real compliance with what we say here.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union, i would like to express my appreciation for mr panzeri's report. the institutional context in which we find ourselves today seems to be particularly favourable and sensitive to fundamental rights, also because of the specific mandate given to the first vice-president of the commission and his role as guardian of the charter of fundamental rights. i take up what high representative mogherini said and i take this opportunity to reiterate the european union's due and proper attention to the protection of human rights in the world, which must be reflected in positive actions to safeguard the achievements made and to persevere in pursuing the objectives of guaranteeing fundamental rights also within the union. that is why i will personally propose the development of an internal strategy on fundamental rights, which is at any rate consistent with the strategic framework on human rights and democracy in the context of external relations. in particular, i believe that the copenhagen dilemma must be overcome by scrupulously checking the respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law not only before accession to the european union but also in relation to the member states that have become members.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs who have worked hard to get this report adopted, the result of a work which has certainly been very intensive and laborious. in particular, i would like to recall some very dear paragraphs, such as paragraphs 75 and 76, which mention the need to include the rome statute of the international criminal court in the new gsp regulation, since some candidates, such as armenia and pakistan, have not yet joined it, in order to obtain this status, and on the other hand also to have a common position of the european union on the ratification of the kampala amendments, since with an italian senator friend i had the opportunity to work on a bill in my own country aimed at this. and i hope that, as colleagues all together in the european parliament, and as the high representative, we can bring this issue back up with great vigour for all the member states. finally, i would also like to mention in paragraph 77 the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide as an opportunity for reconciliation between two communities with their past in order to build their future in peace.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– madam president, honourable members, i will be brief. the debate has been rich with comments and suggestions of which we have taken due note. i can assure you that we are going to draw very much on this in this crucial stage of our preparation of our human rights and democracy policies for the next five years. i would just mention one of the many points many of you have raised, because this is not something i included in my opening remarks and i have a strong personal feeling about it, which is the reference to the role of women in society and in leadership and also the issue of violence against women. two sides of the same coin somehow. this would probably take hours to debate in full but just let me share in what some of you have said about the fact that the role of women and the fight against violence is not only an issue of changing legislation, it is very much an issue of changing culture, starting with the education not only of girls but mainly of boys in our own families and in our own schools. it is an issue not only in our external policies but also very much in our internal policies. i just wanted to share the fact that i have chosen to dedicate our work on 8 march to afghan women and in particular to the women in afghanistan that have chosen or are trying to experience leadership roles, be it in politics, be it in institutions, be it in the police or in the judicial system or in journalism and media. i think we need to support them very much. we have launched a programme for having them in the european institutions for a certain amount of time, so that we can keep this channel open and encourage them on their difficult path. let me also share with you the fact that on 9 march, just last monday – and i had the pleasure of being in new york on the 8 march – i met the un women executive director and we discussed our common policies towards empowering women in society, and also countering violence against women, and i had the pleasure of attending – together with our special representative – the opening session of the csw related to beijing+20. i would just underline here again the valuable contributions we have made, the excellent work that was done, and two commitments i can take in specific terms. one, is making sure that we coordinate the internal and external work on human rights in all our policies; secondly, that we try to mainstream this across all sectors of our engagement, particularly when we work with third parties around the world, and the commitment to work together in our different institutions: council, commission, but very much with the european parliament. i would like to thank you all very much for the contributions to the debate – the shadow rapporteurs, the rapporteur antonio panzeri, for the excellent report that will very much constitute the basis for our future work in these critical times, and also stavros lambrinidis. (applause)
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for the debate. i congratulate you on your extension of your mandate and especially thank you, high representative, because i think you have a very good understanding of what is useful and necessary to do. this is an important discussion: it signals a real concern and also a different sensibility that i respect and some of which i don't agree with. i would just like to point out that the preamble to the charter of fundamental rights states that the european union puts the human person at the centre of its action and that there is no abstraction in the reference to the human person. on the contrary, this word was intended to distance us from the abstractions that had been handed over to the end as subjects and individuals, and to emphasise material life, the concrete conditions of existence, the inviolability of the dignity of each and every person. i therefore want to say very strongly that i am sending back to the sender the sentences i heard from mr chauprade and mr bay: i find some statements about the lgbt community shameful, which really only indicate the level of political incivility in which they want to drag such a fundamental issue as rights. i am not surprised that they are opposed to the report, because it is opposed to tolerance and respect for people. but i am addressing this to the gue, to mr vergiat, who should consider abstaining on the report, which i respect. it would be a real paradox if, by abstaining, they were to allow these obscurantist temptations to prevail in this parliament. that is why i think it is important that the work done should, i hope, be supported by a large part of the european parliament.
in writing. the panzeri report contains many inaccuracies, first and foremost the reference in paragraph 136 which calls on the member states of the european union to recognize the right to abortion under legal and secure conditions. the afet committee, of which i am a member and which voted on this report, has no jurisdiction over the member states of the union, but only over third countries. this paragraph should not have even been included in the final text of the report. furthermore, under the principle of subsidiarity, the possibility of abortion is a matter for the member states and the european union cannot interfere in the policies of the member states in this area. but that's not the only inconsistency. in fact, there are also valuable assessments of the same-sex marriage referendums that took place in 2014 and 2015 in slovakia, croatia and lithuania, references that cannot be taken into account as the panzeri report deals with human rights and democracy in the world in 2013. my impression is that they wanted to insert the issue of abortion and gay marriage at all costs, even where it had nothing to do with it, in order to set precedents, which, as far as i am concerned, i cannot accept.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the basis of the commission's proposals. a million migrants are about to arrive from libya and perhaps among them are jihadists from isis. it has mobilized the extreme right in europe and awakened the will to intervene militarily in libya. i ask you, vice-president, if you share this alarm; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he agrees with bernardino león's idea of a union naval blockade along the libyan coast. intervention in libya would look worse than the soviet and american wars in afghanistan. we would get our hands on geopolitically chaotic lands, adding to the chaos unleashed by our first intervention. the only way forward, it seems to me, is to create legal humanitarian corridors, coordinated with the un if possible, as i believe you have suggested. politically, it is a question of putting an end - you also suggested this - to wars designed to export democracy. this is not about creating panic without credible evidence. i ask whether it is not appropriate to demand the resignation of the director of frontex if this evidence is not given.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago i called libya a broken pandora's box. today we can perhaps say that the first pieces are starting to come together. the dialogue that has been so laboriously pursued in recent months is beginning to bear fruit. a government of national unity may be on the horizon. it is now, ladies and gentlemen, that we must be more vigilant and not make any false moves. that is why we must not fall for the siren call of general haftar, the new commander-in-chief of the armed forces, who on monday called for the lifting of the arms embargo on the country. if that happens, the czech republic, serbia and ukraine would immediately send eight helicopters, six fighters, four fighter-bombers, 150 tanks and not to mention tens of thousands of rifles and what not. in addition to the real risk that they could end up in the hands of ansar al-sharia or isis in transit, such supplies would in any case ignite the proxy war that has brought libya into this chaos, as libya dawn's sponsors would feel entitled to revive it. and instead all factions must know that there is no military option and that we will not tolerate any confrontation to the last drop of blood but only a handshake for a government of national unity at any cost.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to speak by raising the libyan flag because i have been to the country. unlike those who spoke earlier, i actually went and came back this morning and i have to say that what i saw in libya is not what i heard here. for example, the high representative said that he had spoken to the turkish minister: but does the high representative know that turkey is one of the funders of the terrorists who are in libya? do you know or not? do you know that qatar is also a terrorist funder in libya? do you know that sudan is a terrorist funder in libya? libyans in the tobruk government, where i was the tobruk naval base where the parliament is located, where 23 women mps sit said that it's been almost a year since they have seen a westerner visit them: there is no western politician who goes to libya and here we discuss libya without knowing what is happening! they are asking for the embargo to be lifted because otherwise their hands are tied while the terrorists and the muslim brotherhood do whatever they want. and i remind you that 50% of the illegal immigrants who arrive are suffering from aids or ebola. remember, they call italy like a taxi with boats. you have to go to libya and see. high representative mogherini, come with me to libya! i went with my own money: come with me!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the recent developments in libya, the opportunities for a peaceful solution to the crisis can lead to positive developments and that is why the political dialogue under way is important. without a political agreement, it is difficult to imagine an effective response to the terrorist threat which today is not only an imminent danger to the libyan people, to the stability and unity of libya itself, but has become a threat to the entire region. i would also remind the new strategist buonanno that lifting the arms embargo would only serve to intensify hostilities and not necessarily ensure a military victory. political dialogue remains the only possible solution and it is important to reassure the parties that the only genuine interest of the international community is to assist libya in forming an independent, technocratic government of national unity, which is the only solution to the libyan crisis and the institutional prerequisite for an effective response to terrorism and also to the issue of immigration.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, high representative, although three years have passed since the fall of gaddafi, libya is far from stable: two opposing governments, dozens of rival tribes, militias and armed gangs. total anarchy in a fratricidal struggle whose fates are hard to predict. making this scenario more disturbing is the recent advance of isis, which is committing crimes against humanity that we have already seen in syria and iraq. uncertainty on the part of the international community, oscillating between awareness and fear of action, is paradoxically fuelling the extremists in the mediterranean. if the tobruk government does not quickly find a compromise with the tripoli government and if the west does not provide a credible response in a short time, we will end up handing over to isis the control of human trafficking as well, and then we will be faced with the merger of two phenomena that were once separate: the one on immigration and the one on islamism; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on transport and tourism. we are here to try to understand where europe intends to stand in this scenario and what role it intends to play in the prospect of restoring a situation in libya that is consistent with the rule of law, and i ask you, high representative, it is time to demonstrate the impact of european diplomacy: we want to hear from you concrete measures and not a dialogue which is the end of this house. please, concrete measures.
in writing. a few thousand kilometres from the italian coast, we are faced with a situation, the libyan one, which is completely out of control and which seriously threatens the entire northern shore of the mediterranean because of the advance of isis. i insist that the stability of libya be considered a european priority and that of the entire international community, which is called upon at this time to strengthen its commitment in support of an immediate solution. further delays will have no further consequences than to seriously jeopardize international security. i encourage the high representative to urge and coordinate joint action by the 28 member states to strengthen common defence and security, and recognising the legitimacy of the tobruk government, and to work towards achieving unity among the libyan factions currently fighting.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the news of a peace agreement for the people of mali is certainly good news. we must admit, however, that there are still some concerns which do not allow us to call it a complete success. first of all, the agreement has not yet been signed by the rebels in the north, and secondly, the rebels who are sitting in the negotiations do not represent all the people of the regions concerned. not all northerners feel represented by tuareg separatists. young malians have expressed their frustration with groups that insist on speaking for the entire population but feel they are not represented. the viral campaign they launched on social media has garnered thousands of likes but it seems that their voices have not been heard. the terrorist attacks last weekend are a testament to the presence of isis in the area. it is therefore right to rejoice today, but with the awareness that peace and reconciliation are still far off.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a large assembly of tuareg armed groups in the north began today in kidal, precisely to evaluate the proposal for a peace agreement supported by the malian government, the movements close to it and the international community, including us as the european union. the agreement also includes the regional assembly, as some colleagues have said, with specific powers, decentralization towards local selfgovernment and the granting of a large part of powers to the communities: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but we must not delude ourselves, because a large part of civil society is still excluded from this process, including the young generation in mali. we must exert our influence to ensure that they too are part of an agreement which must be the agreement of all. we cannot afford another blast unless we want mali to become another syria, another insoluble crisis and a breeding ground for the ambitions of extremist groups.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this memorandum is certainly an important first step, as we have emphasized with our colleagues in the resolution, and i thank them for their excellent work. unfortunately, many points are still purely programmatic, with practical implications that have yet to be assessed. there is very little legally binding, despite the enormous challenges facing not only terrorist groups but also franchises of terrorism. i would like to reiterate our firm rejection of the rhetoric of a clash of civilizations and even more so of a clash of religions. we need the help of all the muslim communities in europe to isolate extremism and prevent it, and in this the role of the arab states can and must be fundamental, as the king of jordan told us yesterday, that we should not indulge in this kind of argumentation, with political but also cultural instruments. but it also requires a total and concrete commitment by all the arab league member states not only to refrain from all forms of proxy warfare but also to actively prosecute those who, even as private citizens, contribute directly or indirectly to financing the geopolitical confrontation that pits the sunni world against the shiite world, with various proxy wars. no fear of naming names or harshly punishing those who gamble with the fortunes of millions of people: if there is no sincerity, this memorandum will remain a beautiful declaration of intent, and that is why we cannot forget, because cooperation does not mean forgetting. that is why i will continue and with me, and i hope, many other colleagues together, i am sure to raise the protection of human rights and the need to abolish the death penalty: always on the lookout, never an accomplice.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate has clearly shown that the most important issue - although the high representative mogherini has spoken at length mainly on the question of human rights - the most serious and urgent is effective cooperation in the fight against terrorism. it seems to me clear that the adoption of the memorandum of 19 january and the events that followed do not give hope of concrete results, because the position of the two contractors - the arab league on the one hand and the european union on the other - is that of two entities that make words and not deeds. as for the european union, tell me what it has done in practice on the question of foreign fighters, on the question of external border control or on counter-terrorism controls at home. yes, measures have been taken concerning the european parliament, but beyond our security there is very little. nothing has changed at the airports, at the controls, etc. and the declarations of intent of the arab league have not gone any further because there is no system of services, so it has not been possible to identify common objectives in terms of intelligence and coordination of civil, political, intelligence and military interventions. it's not a big deal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, cooperation with the arab countries is essential to help the partners concerned in the southern mediterranean in the formulation and implementation of counter-terrorism strategies. we are able to offer our technical and operational expertise to the arab partners in order to develop the necessary monitoring and surveillance mechanism to secure the borders. i think, however, that the european union must also improve its relations with the regional arab organizations, not only the league of arab states, but also with influential subregional forums. this applies in particular to the european union's collective engagement in countries in serious internal conflict - i am thinking of syria, iran and libya - and we are talking about related collective european policies which must be closely coordinated with the general policy guidelines of the league of arab states, stressing the need to maintain the security and territorial integrity of these countries. i believe that cooperation between the european union and the league of arab states is absolutely essential for all this.
in writing. anti-semitism and islamophobia go hand in hand. the far right groups have gradually replaced the former, the latter. today the main perpetrators of anti-semitic and terrorist violence are no longer right-wing extremists, but radicalized elements in muslim communities in europe: it's called muslim anti-semitism. it is a result of the social marginalization suffered by muslims and international politics. in this sense, isis is only offering an identity to those who have always been marginalized and discriminated against. the proposals put forward by the jewish community (a ban on the wearing of the full veil throughout europe) are not long-term and constructive solutions. we need interfaith dialogue, joint civic initiatives, integrated schooling and more inclusive government structures. muslim leaders must fight anti-jewish mentality as actively as european jews must help dispel the falsehoods that fuel islamophobia: this is the way to beat the twin threats of anti-semitism and islamophobia. europe can and must play a key role in this dialogue and in the creation of mutual tolerance and the promotion of a civic culture. let's think about it this way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution introduces important principles consistent with the cfp, such as the scientific approach to the management of fisheries resources, the principle of management rather than prohibition, and the evaluation of sport and recreational fisheries, which must be fully involved in the process of management and conservation of fisheries resources. i would like to add, however, a comment on the need for a parallel intensive communication and dissemination activity to the european population on the responsible consumption of this species and beyond. if demand remains high because consumers prefer this species exclusively or as a priority over other stocks of sprat in non-eu waters, they risk being overexploited and thus not achieving the objective of this resolution. the conservation measures therefore include the promotion of food education and responsible consumption, mainly aimed at informing european consumers about the use of other fish species that are little known, little known and little exploited.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that, after yesterday's discussion of mr panzeri's annual report on human rights, we are again discussing human rights today in the run-up to the council meeting at the united nations. i am sorry to see that there are still very few of us in this house when it comes to human rights. the document under consideration is a good resolution - we shall vote for it - which deals with all human rights issues at global level. i am pleased that you are talking about climate change and climate refugees, who are estimated to be about 650 million in the next few years, and i am pleased that you are talking about mega sporting events, which serve to legitimize states that actually systematically violate human rights. what i regret to point out is that often and willingly our words remain exclusively words: we have no means of making our statements and demands come true.
member of the commission, on behalf of vp/hr.– mr president, once again i would like to thank you for this debate, and for your recommendations regarding the eu priorities for the 28th session of the human rights council. they correspond a great deal with those endorsed by the foreign affairs council on 9 february. this is an important signal that the eu stands united in reaffirming the universality of human rights. let me close with a reference to gender equality, which i know is dear to you. on monday in new york, the high representative/vice president attended the 59th session of the un commission on the status of women. this is a priority for the commission at large. the advancement of gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls should concern us all. true, much more needs to be done to protect and empower women and girls worldwide, including in our own countries. however, we should support this, and with the support of all 28 member states, the european union can make a real difference. throughout this debate i have seen a joint commitment to the human rights actions of the united nations. as your resolution shows, we have many common priorities. i would like to invite you to join our efforts in the promotion of human rights around the globe. we must not rest on our laurels. as the currently ongoing session of the human rights council shows, we have our work cut out for us. i count on parliament’s support and look forward to our continued cooperation.
in writing. the 28th session of the un human rights council will celebrate the anniversary of her birth in march 2006. since then, his role and especially his work for the protection of human rights in the world has been unquestionable. we too are celebrating him today and applauding his commitment to the thousands of persecuted and displaced people in different parts of the world whom he is assisting. but let me say there's a little bit of hypocrisy in all of this. the unhrc, which we consider to be trustworthy and credible, has repeatedly criticised the european union's immigration policy, our asylum system and the inadequacy of triton. it recommended that europe - and i will cite only a few examples - have a 'coordinated response to strengthen solidarity in the eu', 'sharing the responsibilities for access to european territory' and 'creating legal alternatives to dangerous irregular movements'. it seems to me that the direction of european immigration policy is now going in the opposite direction. i hope that the eu will not only celebrate the unhrc but also respect its recommendations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am certainly in favour of this resolution. it is very gratifying that we are finally taking action to try to defend those who have been the most persecuted in recent years, namely christians, and above all it is gratifying that we often and willingly speak in this chamber about the defence of minorities in europe, about the fact that we must never again repeat the mistakes of the past, about the fact that nazism must be erased: but at the moment when in syria and iraq they are marking with "n" as "nazarenes" the houses of christians, well what is it if not a new form of nazism? and why is europe having such difficulty in intervening? i have seen that in libya, when there were economic interests, they intervened immediately, whereas it seems to me that we are doing a great deal to defend christians in the world. and be careful . the problem of persecution of christians is not limited to syria and iraq. there are at least 50 countries in the world where 150 million christians are persecuted. and if we are so good at declaring war for economic interests and imposing sanctions for economic interests, why do we not do the same with these countries that persecute peaceful christians?
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we condemn the persecution of christians, whether assyrians, chaldeans or copts, and of all religious minorities, very strongly and clearly. we cannot allow any community to be uprooted from their ancestral lands in the silence of the international community. but we must also remember, ladies and gentlemen, that falling for the rhetoric of the crusade of jihad, of the clash of civilizations, is exactly what these terrorist groups, like daesh, want. if we create tension and suspicion in our societies towards muslim communities, then we push moderate islam to social exclusion and radicalization, creating new fertile ground for recruits and foreign fighters. let us not forget that the muslims themselves are the most affected by the number of victims, sunnis and shiites alike. daesh uses religion as a pretext and that is why we must work together with representatives of political islam, such as the arab league, and religious islam, so that they dissociate themselves completely and leave no ambiguity as to their contiguity with these groups. let's all work together before it's too late.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that any further comment on the inhumanity and the atrocity of what is happening in south sudan is superfluous. it is useless to go on listing the inhumanity of what happens to child soldiers and also to the abducted girls, first treated as slaves and then destined for the prostitution market. south sudan is the youngest state in the world, if not one of the youngest states in the world, and certainly it should make us reflect on the fact that since its birth it has been in a state of virtually perpetual civil war. perhaps we should be careful about who has an interest in keeping south sudan in this condition, who has an economic interest in keeping the two factions, the opposition and the government, in constant conflict with each other and thus fomenting this kind of inhumanity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that we have come together here to discuss a hapless country called south sudan. as in other countries, raw materials are more of a curse than a resource. in order to seize control of south sudan's oil, as many as 12 000 children have been turned into instruments of death by factions which have been incited, unfortunately, also by outside interests. we are saying forcefully that they must return to their homes and that we must therefore help to rebuild the state infrastructure, especially the schools, and to carry out real projects of reintegration into society. the perpetrators of this crime must be brought to justice, as must those who speculate on this crisis, who profit from the proceeds of this country's blood-soaked oil, as mr marias said. it is time to adopt immediate sanctions on the basis of the un resolution on the leaders of these factions and to strictly enforce the arms embargo. we want negotiations, and this time they have to be serious. the youngest state in the world must safeguard the future of its youngest citizens.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have moved from the black gold rush to the land rush. the land of the indigenous people, the land of the masai, as in the case of tanzania, which we are talking about. only that the masai, unlike us, with our speculative ideas about other people's land, have the idea that the land belongs to no one, whether it is the dead, the living or the yet to be born. we are acting with the classic hypocritical attitude of those who condemn tanzania and these peoples, as in this resolution - which we will clearly vote for and which i hope the whole parliament will vote for - and then endorse increased investment in biofuels in countries like tanzania, which will cause other indigenous peoples to be wiped out from their places of origin. so we have to be careful what we say, what we vote and then what we actually do, because many of the companies that are going to invest there and the gallagher report that was commissioned by the government of great britain shows that these are growing investments, in 2020 we are talking about 31.5 million hectares for biofuel production make our attitude very ambiguous. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i completely agree with my colleague jakovčić: the way we endorse these speculations on tanzanian soil is absolutely criminal. i would like us to think about what we would do if the others came to european territory and chased us away because they had to grow something they needed for energy reasons... i couldn't agree more. we should cut off all relations with the tanzanian government if it does not put an end to speculative attitudes like this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, restrictions on land ownership based on ethnicity, nationality or gender must be abolished. all men and women have a right to land. the land must be shared among those who live and work on it. thousands of masai have been violently driven from their homes and ancestral lands in tanzania, without receiving fair compensation. all this to make room for a few wealthy tourists. it's not a local phenomenon, it's not an african story: it's a fact that concerns us very closely. we must ask european companies operating in the agricultural sector in africa for more transparency or the private sector for greater awareness in their codes of conduct. because of this phenomenon, entire communities are being evicted from their land, left without compensation or a source of income. let us not forget that poverty is one of the main causes of conflict.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i would like to ask mr polčák whether he agrees that we should sanction and prevent european companies from going to tanzania to exploit the land and then to drive out people, such as the maasai, to make speculative investments in that land. what does he think?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, who are the european companies in tanzania and what are they doing? that's the question we should be asking ourselves. in your opinion, can it still be tolerated that in the third millennium local communities, in this case the masai, are seeing their lands expropriated with incredible acts of violence and with no respect for their ancestral rights? land that has always been used for burial rites, for the community, to make room for business companies that speculate to build tourist resorts and allow big game hunting, this vile and cowardly trampoline for wealthy western europeans and arabs? with this resolution we wish to give voice to the more than two million citizens of the world who have signed this appeal. with this speech, i ask you to help develop a model of sustainable agriculture, to give hope to those who have seen the rights of the living violated and to show compassion to the dead. it is time to punish those who contribute to this perverse mechanism. tanzania cannot and must not be the west's farmland or playground, we are with the maasai.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that i do not know whether i am in parliament or in a bar, because it seems as if i were in a bar here instead of talking about important matters. look, look at the show! i mean, what are we supposed to talk about, the cappuccino, the coffee? are we talking about the brioches? i wanted to talk about the masai issue: since the masai issue is important, i see a lot of hypocrisy. but before we think of the masai, do we want to think first of the europeans, of our people, of our security against terrorism, against what is happening, for example, in libya, about which there has been too little talk? do we want to talk about the concrete things of our people, of our people, or do we always think only of others and forget instead about our young people, our old people, the people who cannot get on? these are the things this parliament should be discussing: look at this show, look how beautiful! why don't we throw a party, throw some firecrackers, throw some confetti: is this the european parliament?
mr president, on behalf of the s&d group and in agreement with the rapporteur and with other colleagues, in particular, of the committee on culture and education, i present this oral amendment to follow paragraph 210: ʽreiterates that in the framework of the universality of human rights and on the basis of unesco conventions, cultural diversity and cultural heritage are the world’s heritage and that the international community has the duty to cooperate in their protection and valorisation; considers that intentional forms of destructions of cultural and artistic heritage, as it is currently occurring in iraq and in syria, should be persecuted as war crimes and as crimes against humanityʼ. i hope this amendment will be supported. (applause)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted with conviction in favour of the resolution on the sexual abuse of children online. the horrific images of child abuse circulating on the internet, operated by unscrupulous criminals, constitute serious violations of fundamental rights enshrined in the united nations convention on the rights of the child and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the data provided by ngos on internet pages containing child abuse material is chilling: 80% of the victims are under the age of 10. unfortunately, the preventive measures taken by the member states so far have not always been effective. in order to combat the digital penetration of children, it is necessary to ensure that any illegal content is promptly removed and reported to law enforcement authorities, but they must be provided with appropriate legal tools to investigate and prosecute offenders. the international dimension of the phenomenon therefore requires a coordinated and global european approach, starting with greater education and awareness of minors about the potential risks of the network and measures that commit the social media sector to assume its share of responsibility.
in writing. ‒ the report is unbalanced and unable to be shared, and for these reasons i did not intend to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the assassination of the russian opposition leader, boris nemtsov, and the state of democracy in russia. the assassination of russian leader boris nemtsov is a political crime that goes beyond the motives of the perpetrators themselves. although the murder seems to be coming to light, many questions remain open and with them there is concern about the difficult political and economic phase that the country is going through. the european union cannot remain outside this difficult situation. immediately after the execution of nemtsov, all the demands in the manifesto of the murdered political leader were reiterated: a system of more democratic access for all parties to elections, efficient and clean justice, the cessation of propaganda and censorship, the reform of the judicial system, the reduction of costs in the military, health and education sectors, the end of the war against ukraine.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the murder of boris nemtsov, which i condemn, must be the subject of a credible investigation by russia, which truly guarantees a third-party and impartial trial. we don't need to start a cold war again. so let's avoid prejudices that could create an even darker atmosphere.
in writing. ‒ i express my full condemnation of the murder of the russian opposition leader, boris nemtsov. i think it is legitimate and in line with constitutional and legal principles to make this absolutely clear: i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i share with it the strong condemnation of the assassination of boris nemcov, a prominent russian political leader, who was shot dead near the kremlin two days before a demonstration against the effects of the economic crisis and the conflict in ukraine, scheduled for 1 march 2015 and organised by him. i want to pay tribute to boris nemtsov because he dedicated his life to the realization of a more democratic, prosperous and open russia and to the creation of strong partnerships between russia and its neighbors. however, i do not feel inclined to venture into intellectual speculation before i have ascertained the facts.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the resolution on the murder of boris nemtsov. the murder of the russian political activist and opponent, boris nemtsov, is one which we can only condemn in the strongest terms. one of the democratic principles on which europe is founded is that it promotes political pluralism and freedom of expression. voltaire's phrase, "i disapprove of what you say, but i will defend to the death your right to say it", perfectly captures the concept. for this reason, the death of nemtsov is intolerable and a serious attack on this principle.
in writing. ‒ the murder of boris nemtsov, a prominent oppositionist and reformist, near the kremlin, which adds to the growing number of suspicious deaths and unsolved murders in russia since 1998, including that of anna politkovskaya, is just another piece of a drift that deeply undermines relations between russia and the european union, digging a ditch that risks becoming unbridgeable. the fact that some members of the european parliament are being denied entry to the russian federation and are prevented from attending funerals is adding to the perception of a sense of precariousness and democratic uncertainty in the russian federation. at the same time, the gradual decline in respect for human rights, as a result of deliberate choices by the russian authorities to take measures to impose further restrictions on the opposition and civil society, hampering freedom of expression and assembly, does not bode well for the future. the strong condemnation of the murder of boris nemtsov is an opportunity to urge the russian authorities to put an end to all repressive actions and intimidation of a political and judicial nature. russia can become an important and strategic global player, provided that this is done in compliance with international law and the commitments made in the framework of the osce.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the resolution as it is only used as a pretext to politically attack russia.
in writing. the killing of russian opposition leader and politician boris nemtsov casts another deep shadow on the state of democracy in russia. moscow is a decisive economic and political partner for the european union, and that is why the gradual dismantling of political freedoms in the country cannot be tolerated. i voted with conviction for the resolution on this case, which strongly expresses parliament's support for the democratic forces in russia which are committed to an open society and a reformist programme. parliament rightly urges the council to define a united policy towards russia, stressing the priority of human rights and the need for concrete actions to put an end to the repression of freedom of expression, assembly and association.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the resolution on the assassination of russian opposition leader boris nemtsov and the state of democracy in russia, as i believe that the european union must adopt a united and coherent political approach towards russia. last february the former deputy prime minister of the russian federation was assassinated near the kremlin. throughout his political career, boris nemcov has shown his commitment to promoting modernity and democracy throughout russia.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the motion for a resolution on the assassination of russian opposition leader boris nemtsov and the state of democracy in russia. considering what has happened, an independent international investigation into the murder would be appropriate. the fact that people are being held illegally is also contrary to the principles that must be respected and to human rights. russia remains an important global player, but it remains the essential factor in respecting international law and its osce commitments.
in writing. ‒ on february 27, boris nemcov, former deputy prime minister of the russian federation and former governor of nizhny novgorod, was assassinated near the kremlin in moscow. during his political career, nemcov has distinguished himself for his commitment to the promotion of democracy and modernity within the country. i have supported the resolution on the murder of boris nemtsov, because i believe that it is an act of due respect for the victim.
in writing. ‒ we would like to express our deepest condolences today at the assassination of boris nemtsov, a politician and opposition activist who was a promoter of the modernisation of russian civil society. we expect the competent judicial authorities to carry out swift and transparent investigations to find the perpetrators and the perpetrators. we wish to express once again our deep concern at the attacks on opposition politicians, independent figures, human rights defenders and civil society. we call on the commission and the european union external action service to increase the financial assistance provided to civil society through the european instrument for democracy and human rights in order to establish a credible and long-lasting relationship of support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the above resolution which sends a strong message in defence of human rights and calls for an end to the repression of freedom of expression, assembly and association in russia. the document calls for an independent international investigation into the murder of russian political opponent boris nemtsov, who was killed two days before a demonstration he organized against the conflict in ukraine. i agree that russia must end all pressure, repression and intimidation against opposition leaders, civil society and the media, and i accede to the demands for the release of all political prisoners.
in writing. ‒ whereas boris nemtsov, former deputy prime minister of the russian federation, a leading social and economic reformer in post-soviet russia and one of the leaders of the liberal and democratic russian opposition, was assassinated near the kremlin two days before a demonstration against the effects of the economic crisis and the conflict in ukraine, scheduled for 1 march 2015 and organised by him; whereas the russian federation, as a full member of the council of europe and of the organisation for security and cooperation in europe (osce) and as a signatory to the universal declaration of human rights, has committed itself to the universal principles of democracy, the rule of law and respect for fundamental freedoms and human rights; condemning the murder of boris nemtsov (among the worst in russian history), who was shot dead near the kremlin in a video-surveiled area manned by police and security services; calling for an independent international investigation into the murder. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ boris nemtsov, an opponent of putin and the war in ukraine, who dedicated his life to the realization of a more democratic russia, died a few steps from the kremlin under suspicious circumstances, in an area where surveillance, video and police should be at the highest levels. parliament is therefore right to call for an international inquiry into the murder. russia must put an end to the propaganda war that only foments hatred and provokes clashes. i would like to remind you that the russian federation, together with the european union, has committed itself to protecting democratic values and universal fundamental rights. i urge the russian judicial authorities to apply humanitarian law and to demand the release of all political prisoners, in particular and as a matter of urgency, of nadija savchenko, who was abducted on ukrainian territory and is illegally detained in a russian prison, and whose health conditions are a cause for concern, and of police officer eston kohver, who was taken from estonian territory and brought to russia. it is in our interest that tensions should be eased and diplomatic relations restored, and to do this the whole european union must define a unified policy which involves respect for fundamental rights by russia.
in writing. ‒ i was very saddened by the murder of boris nemtsov, which took place in a highly guarded area near the kremlin and guarded by police and security services. boris nemtsov, leader of the opposition to vladimir putin and the war in ukraine, has dedicated his life to the realization of a democratic russia, an open society and a reformist agenda. i believe that russia is an important partner of the eu and i very much hope that the murder of boris nemtsov will be clarified by an international investigation, so that tensions can be eased and good diplomatic relations restored.
in writing. i have decided to vote against this report because it is completely unbalanced against russia.
in writing. ‒ i do not share the views expressed in this report. the text is full of good proposals, which we know will remain so, and it forgets, as happens too often, the real needs of our citizens and our businesses. the eu remains firm in its anti-russian stance, reiterating its support for the sanctions, now that it is clear to all the devastating impact they have had on smes and agriculture in veneto and italy. for all these reasons i did not intend to support this text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, europe has had to deal with a changing political environment and with increasingly difficult security management, both within and outside the union. europe therefore needs to strengthen its role in defending its citizens and supporting democratic processes in neighbouring areas more than ever. in the report i voted for, the need for a renewed and coherent management of migration flows best sums up these two challenges, calling for more support for countries hosting asylum seekers on the one hand and for strengthening regional protection programmes in crisis areas on the other. we are well aware that in foreign policy the european countries still often prefer bilateral solutions and promote different priorities and interests, making it very difficult to plan jointly the civilian and military missions in crisis areas. while stressing the need for a joint effort to deepen and consolidate the common european security and defence policy, we must make sure that cooperation with our partners, and in particular with nato, is characterized by an increasingly integrated decision-making process which will thus avoid the dispersion of resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted yes since i agree with the content of my colleague's report and retain that the figure of the high representative should be strengthened in order to reinforce the credibility of the european union.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the annual report of the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy to the european parliament. the crisis in ukraine and the events in paris have put unprecedented strain on the stability and security of the european union. moreover, the current economic climate has also meant that the european union has not been able to use its full potential to shape the international political and security environment. the lack of coordination and programmatic coherence between eu policies has further limited europe's influence in the world. the european union, to be considered a credible actor, must therefore have an ambitious and effective common foreign policy based on a shared vision of objectives. the need for a new european security strategy, taking account of recent geopolitical changes, is also felt. only through the full sharing of information between member states' intelligence services and increased cooperation with the countries of the middle east and north africa will the european union be able to respond effectively to the new challenges and ensure the security of its citizens.
in writing. ‒ the union's foreign policy really needs to be strengthened, as was shown by the ukraine crisis, which was de facto managed by merkel and hollande rather than the high representative. the idea of a european army, which president juncker has revived, is part of the logic of the single european voice, but everything will depend on the real political will of the states to give the eu the opportunity to stand out with a voice of its own. this could be an opportunity to finally have autonomy in foreign policy and to speak with a single voice in bodies such as nato, which is not the case today.
in writing. ‒ i stress the vital importance of collective defence provided by nato. i think it is important to recall that the eu has an obligation to ensure that its external action is designed and implemented with the aim of consolidating and supporting democracy, the rule of law, human rights and the principles of international law. i also believe that member states are called upon to improve their capacity to contribute to territorial defence as a matter of urgency. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it favours a shared vision of foreign affairs and security policy and provides a common perception of the threats against the eu as a whole. the recent terrorist attacks in eu countries have shown that it is increasingly difficult to separate internal and external security and i believe that member states and the union institutions need to step up the sharing of security-related intelligence. i also hope that cooperation in the fight against terrorism will be strengthened in the eu's relations with the countries of the middle east and north africa.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote against because i consider the role of the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy to be wholly inadequate. you cannot help but notice the anomalies in your report. there is talk of a strengthening of the eu's foreign policy, but in practice it is inconsistent. the minsk agreement of last february, which sealed the truce between russia and ukraine, was emblematic, with eu ambassadors merkel and hollande. no sign of the high representative. we are talking about ever closer cooperation with the usa and nato, as if their influence were not already more than neglected, and more than harmful. an inconsistent foreign policy that has helped fuel the fires of war around the world.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report which continues the absurd policy of sanctions against russia, which wants turkey to resume its path towards eu membership more actively and with conviction, which promotes ttip and many other points with which i completely disagree.
in writing. ‒ in adopting this resolution, we reiterate the need for a strong and effective common foreign policy, in support of human rights, based on the peaceful values on which the european union is founded. in calling for a genuine common defence policy, this house is not advocating an arms race but, on the contrary, a rationalisation and reduction of military expenditure, by reducing the budgets of individual member states in this respect. our values, on which the rules of our coexistence are based, are the real antidote to an aggressive foreign policy. the house also stressed the importance of relations with the african continent, given the insecurity that is spreading from the sahel region to the north, to the southern borders of the union and to the south, upsetting the geopolitical balance in sub-saharan africa. we can no longer tolerate the loss of human life close to our borders. the management of migration issues must therefore be integrated into the union's external action, which alone can provide an effective response.
in writing. i vote in favour of the annual report of the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy to the european parliament, as it encourages the eu and the member states to take a proactive stance in implementing an eu foreign and security policy that can continue to effectively protect the integrity of its citizens. the transformation of the world political order and the recent crises risk making the eu more vulnerable to certain serious phenomena that could undermine the stability and security of the entire european continent. for these reasons we must work with great effort and in a coordinated way to protect the security of all european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the current transformation of the political order at world level has made the european union particularly vulnerable to phenomena such as terrorism, arms and drug trafficking and human trafficking. recognising the seriousness of this situation, i have decided to support the report by mr brok, a document which encourages the community institutions and the member states to take a proactive stance in defining a community foreign and security policy, aimed at safeguarding the security of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ we once again regret that the european union is not able to use its full potential to shape the international political and security environment. the lack of coordination and coherence between the eu's internal and external policies, exacerbated by recent financial constraints, further limits europe's influence in the world and its capacity to act as a guarantor of regional and global security, contributing to conflict prevention and crisis management. the eu will only be a credible actor if we are able to have a shared vision of key interests, values and objectives in external relations. we need common, strengthened and combined political, economic, financial and defence resources to maximise the eu's influence in the world, to produce synergies and to ensure peace and stability in europe and its neighbourhood. the community institutions and the member states can now make full use of the instruments provided for by the lisbon treaty to move from a hitherto mainly reactive approach to a proactive, coherent and strategic eu foreign and security policy, based on common values and in the common european interest.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr brok's report, which sets out a framework for evaluating the common european foreign and security policy. more specifically, it provides a set of recommendations to improve it in the light of the new challenges and threats facing the union. the eu has not yet been able to use its full potential to map the international political and security environment. in addition, the lack of coordination and coherence between community policies, as well as financial constraints, place further constraints on europe's influence in the world and its capacity to act as a guarantor of regional and global security, contributing to the prevention and management of conflicts. the report therefore reiterates the need to reform the internal workings of the european external action service in order to better assist the high representative and stresses the need to further rationalise the structure to provide a greater capacity for monitoring and responding to crises.
in writing. ‒ whereas, due to the dramatic deterioration of the security environment across the eu, the international law-based order, stability and security of europe is being called upon at levels unprecedented since the beginning of european integration, which highlights the ongoing transformation of the world political order; that an ambitious and effective union foreign policy must be based on a shared vision of key european interests, values and objectives in external relations, as well as on a common perception of threats to the eu as a whole; that a process of strategic reflection on the eu's foreign and security policy needs to be launched as a matter of priority; the european council in madrid, in the light of the recent developments, has decided that a new european security strategy is needed, one which takes account of the recent geopolitical changes and can therefore provide a response to new challenges and threats. i voted in favour of this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that, given the current situation, the work of the high representative in the field of foreign and security policy is crucial, and parliament believes that the priorities should be multifaceted and aimed at reaffirming the eu's role as a global actor. we must first of all protect european values and interests by respecting the political and legal order of europe, and also improve territorial defence to protect member states from terrorist attacks and organised crime. it is necessary to promote and foster security, democracy and economic development in third countries, especially those bordering the eu, by taking a leading role in conflict resolution and in strengthening the global political, economic and financial order. we also call for the financial assistance for external action provided by the eu and its member states to be reoriented and used more effectively. this assistance should be directed to civil society and ngos working in the field, including by easing red tape so that funding projects can be adopted more quickly.
in writing. i have decided to vote against because the report is totally unbalanced against russia and in favour of sanctions. the european parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external relations are not jeopardised by the threat of a nuclear war.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the brok report because it deals with the transformation of the eu into an armed and, if necessary, belligerent political entity which, not having its own strategies, adopts those of third countries. i think it is worrying that the geopolitical nature of ttip is being emphasized in this context. the eu was born as a peaceful community to overcome the horrors and divisions of the second world war. it must remain so. if the security of the eu has deteriorated, this is also (and in many cases above all) the effect of the disastrous and counterproductive eu policies towards its eastern and southern neighbours. in particular, the eu's strategy of providing 'aid' to third countries to the extent that they adopt the european economic model can be seen as a form of economic and cultural colonialism and diverts public money from the needs of european citizens already impoverished by unnecessary and harmful austerity policies.
i voted against the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world in 2013 because the text that has just been adopted contains some important concepts that cannot be shared. once again, the idea has been to use this important annual event, which also contains positive elements such as the affirmation and protection of freedom of thought, conscience and religion, to force the treaties and to suggest, or rather to affirm, at european level a right to abortion, despite the principle of subsidiarity which states that matters such as family law are a matter of national competence. it is good that we have amended the text of the report, which criticised democratic referendums in member states such as croatia and slovakia, and the national legislation of lithuania. the decisions on these very sensitive matters, which affect the principles and values of every person, the model of family and society we want to build, must be taken by the member states and not by the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ although this report has some chapters that are acceptable, the text soon turns into a somewhat balanced exercise in demagogy, which i do not share. that is why i did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i consider that the the improvement of the human rights and democracy standards are fundamental for a better european union.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world in 2013 and on the european union's policy on the matter. it is based on the view that the treaty of lisbon has strengthened the european union's commitment on the international scene. this document is inspired by the principles of democracy and the rule of law, upholding the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, and the principles of equality and solidarity. in this context, i would like to emphasize the attention paid to the european union's action on migration and refugees. in this respect, i believe that more effective policies need to be developed to address the urgent issues connected with them and that this impetus should be given in a manner consistent with international law on human rights and fundamental human dignity. as i have said in other speeches on this subject, the building of a european area of rights which is genuinely inclusive in its complexity, and not just a geographical boundary, is an element which should be a priority on the agenda of the community institutions and the member states.
in writing. ‒ human rights and democracy are founding values of the european union, at the heart of its actions and policies. the european parliament's human rights report is an important tool for assessing the union's human rights intervention in third countries and their situation. it monitors the implementation of the strategic framework of the european union action plan on human rights and democracy. the thematic rather than geographical approach, which is new in the report, is, in my view, a modification which makes it possible to give a better idea of the problems. i voted in favour and we will ensure that the union's action in this area is actually based on the data collected.
in writing. ‒ the in-depth report prepared by mr panzeri is an important document, which deals in an organic way, and with attention to the interrelations between the internal and external dimensions, with a great many profiles relating to the defence and promotion of human rights and democracy in the world. it is not only a snapshot of what has been done and a list of the main problems to be tackled, but also a valuable guide to the steps to be taken in a number of areas: the protection and promotion of rights in, or through, international agreements (commercial and non-commercial), the protection of freedom of assembly, association, thought and expression (online and offline); the regulation of surveillance technologies, the fight against discrimination of all kinds and the protection of minorities and vulnerable persons, in particular children; the fight against the death penalty, torture and other inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, and respect for human rights by businesses; the eu's action in the field of migration and refugees is a key element in the eu's efforts to combat crime and to combat crime. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ there are still many challenges ahead and much work to be done. i'm convinced that blaming scapegoats doesn't solve the problems. we must work on attitudes, on culture in the broad sense, on intellectual growth. my vote on the various amendments, and then on the report as a whole, followed this logic, which i would like to see shared by a wider majority.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament must ensure that human rights and democracy are at the heart of its actions and policies. the european parliament's human rights report is an important tool for assessing both eu human rights policies and the situation in third countries. it is a tool through which we can check the state of implementation of the strategic framework of the european union's action plan on human rights and democracy. the significant novelty of this report compared to previous ones is that it is thematic rather than geographical in nature, grouping the different human rights considerations into broad thematic areas rather than on a geographical/regional basis. i voted yes. i would like to stress that if these reports and votes are not to remain mere words on paper, the issues raised in parliament's urgent resolutions must be given institutional follow-up.
in writing. ‒ this is a sensitive and important report, whose adoption marks a new milestone in the union's ability to be at the forefront, not only in defence but also in promoting fundamental values such as democracy and human rights. it is important that it be the union as such, since it represents the uniqueness of the states which compose it in identifying and delimiting the scope of the very concept of democracy and human rights, avoiding unilateral acts or interpretations which could give rise to political or ideological polemics. i would like to stress here the extraordinary weapon at europe's disposal: the european union is one of the most competitive, reliable and ambitious trading partners in the world. we often, and rightly so, grant preferential treatment to the least developed countries. it is essential that this aspect should not be completely dissociated from the promotion of democracy and human rights. the countries that want to have trade relations with europe and that receive favourable treatment from europe must embark on a path, properly shared and monitored, to achieve adequate standards of respect, protection and, in turn, promotion of rights and democracy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2013 and on the european union's policy on the matter, as human rights have become an essential element of the union's external action. it is important that the eu supports un resolutions on gender issues, in particular on the elimination of violence against women, discrimination against women and the role of freedom of expression and opinion in women's empowerment, as well as statements on forced and early marriage and female genital mutilation. the resolution deplores the fact that homosexuality is still a criminal offence in 78 countries, sometimes even punishable by death (as in saudi arabia and afghanistan), and considers that practices and acts of violence against individuals on the basis of their sexual orientation and gender identity should not go unpunished. we hope that the european external action service will focus in particular on situations where the death penalty is in force and/or where lgbti persons are subject to torture and ill-treatment, condemning such practices in line with the eu guidelines on the death penalty and on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the resolution because, in addition to a list of principles, many of which are acceptable, it does not provide solutions and does not provide a serious and objective view of the most relevant problems.
in writing. i would like to express my support for the report by mr panzeri on human rights and democracy in the world of the union, a call for europe to commit itself to placing human rights not only at the centre of social policies within the union and in individual member states, but also to making them central and a priority in relations with third countries and in the context of trade agreements themselves. the european union is the 'home of human dignity and rights', the beacon of inclusive, democratic and peaceful human policies, and it is fighting with all the means at its disposal against such grave evils as corruption, religious intolerance, violence against women and children, homophobia and human trafficking, which unfortunately still exist in too many parts of the world. the eu should promote international justice that does not leave the perpetrators of major war crimes and genocide unpunished and that it is the guarantor of all those human rights defenders who are too often imprisoned in the world for defending and promoting freedom and the protection of dignity.
in writing. ‒ the globalisation of markets and the devastating economic crisis have undermined one of the most fundamental human rights: the right to work is guaranteed, protected and accessible to men and women without any discrimination. i therefore call for social responsibility to be imposed, for freedom of association to be guaranteed, and for all forms of exploitation which harm the most vulnerable to be condemned: women, children and the disabled. the issue of growth and development has assumed a strategic importance in our political agenda, an objective which cannot be separated from the protection of the dignity of persons. i would like to share the call for respect for human rights in the context of trade agreements and in any international agreement. not just any job, but quality work as a non-negotiable human right. i would also like to stress the position taken on the issues of gender representation in politics and in institutions. the principle of equal democracy is fully integrated into the vocabulary of human rights which are being trampled on or even denied. a convinced vote in favour, which restores authority to parliament's political action.
in writing. ‒ i would like to thank mr panzeri for this very comprehensive report. i thank him above all for having made it clear that while wars and violent civil conflicts are being fought all over the world, the greatest tragedy is happening right on the borders of europe. the mediterranean is the region with the highest mortality, a graveyard that in 2013 alone counted more than 3,000 deaths. we talk a lot about human rights, but we violate the right to life of those who, in complete desperation, are trying to reach europe. and we also violate their right to asylum. the dublin regulation does not allow us to respect the right to international protection. as long as this burden is borne by a few member states, with the total indifference of the others, europe will not be able to give lessons in civility and respect for rights to anyone.
in writing. ‒ by adopting this resolution, we reaffirm the importance of protecting human rights and democracy in the world. the member states must commit themselves to ensuring that the rights of all are respected, protecting minorities and helping those in difficulty by all possible means. we want to see more monitoring and guarantees for the protection of rights, through awareness-raising initiatives that spread the idea of equality and respect. minorities are still not sufficiently protected today, even within the union. today, people are still discriminated against because of their sexual preference, their beliefs and the color of their skin. we must say enough and stop these injustices against the weakest. we all have a duty to ensure respect and dignity for all human beings. it is therefore important that this resolution becomes the instrument through which positive change can take place for our own and future generations. we must be united and committed to making all this possible.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support the annual report on 'human rights and democracy in the world in 2013 and the european union's policy on the matter'. the report contains rules which affect the principle of subsidiarity, as set out in article 5 of the treaty on european union. that is why i cannot agree with it, although i fully support the need to combat female genital mutilation, child, early and forced marriages and marital rape, all of which are contrary to european values and to respect for the human rights of the individual.
in writing. ‒ although the panzeri report makes entirely agreeable references to the need to promote full respect for human rights in european foreign policy, i considered it appropriate to abstain from voting on it. too many references to matters of national competence. there are, in fact, many sensitive elements in the text which, in my view, contribute to the fact that the document is not entirely coherent.
in writing. ‒ the safeguarding and protection of human rights is one of the european union's main objectives, not only for its own people but also for the people of third states with which it has relations. the 'annual report on human rights and democracy in the world in 2013 and the european union's policy on the subject' addresses this issue boldly, reminding us of this purpose and our role. the text shows a clear political will: the commission's proposal is to extend rights rather than restrict them, to raise the bar higher and higher, to make an effective contribution to reducing injustice in the world, and with it inequality. to remind us all that there is a way to grow without leaving anyone behind and that diversity is a value that must be protected and valued. for these reasons, i confirm my vote in favour without reservation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the panzeri report because i believe that the text touches upon certain matters which are strictly the responsibility of the member states. as defined in article 5 of the treaty on european union, in areas not falling within its exclusive competence, the union is to intervene only when its action is considered to be more effective than that undertaken at national, regional or local level. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
in writing. ‒ whereas, due to the dramatic deterioration of the security environment across the eu, the international law-based order, stability and security of europe is being called upon at levels unprecedented since the beginning of european integration, which highlights the ongoing transformation of the world political order; whereas an ambitious and effective union foreign policy must be based on a shared vision of key european interests, values and objectives in external relations, as well as on a common perception of threats to the eu as a whole; whereas a process of strategic reflection on the eu's foreign and security policy needs to be launched as a matter of priority; whereas recent developments require the development of a new european security strategy which takes account of recent geopolitical changes and can therefore provide a response to new challenges and threats; i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i find it paradoxical that even today, despite the progress made by societies, it is still of paramount importance to fight to ensure that all people can enjoy their rights, and that these rights are not violated or completely suppressed. it should no longer be necessary to reiterate a principle such as freedom of expression, thought, belief or sexual orientation, and yet many people are still being abused and denied these freedoms. my commitment, like that of the whole of parliament, is to guarantee and secure these human rights for all, in particular for those minorities who suffer discrimination on the grounds of their beliefs or their ethnic, political or cultural affiliation. in the international arena, rights must be universally and fully protected, extended to all peoples and in particular to those with whom the european union has relations, if the political commitment of this parliament to the promotion and protection of human rights is not to be undermined.
in writing. i have decided to vote against because the report, apart from a few chapters, is totally demagogic and unbalanced. it calls for more rights and protection for the roma, for example. the introduction of systems and efforts for the rights of migrants, refugees and asylum seekers in accordance with the principle of non-refoulement; the creation of the figure of the "climate refugee", i.e. someone who is forced to leave their country as a result of environmental disasters due to climate change.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution and in particular strongly support the need for the eu and member states to recognise, without unnecessary ideological divisions, the inalienable rights of women to bodily integrity and decision-making autonomy, to voluntary family planning and to safe and legal termination of pregnancy. in this light, i join the call for the eu to take the lead at the 59th session of the commission on the status of women in the fight against attempts to undermine the un beijing platform for action and in particular access to education and health as fundamental human rights and sexual and reproductive rights. finally, it is crucial to recognise (and encourage where not yet implemented) the growing political support for the banning of sterilisation as a requirement for legal gender recognition. such requirements, where they still exist, should be treated and prosecuted as a violation of the right to physical integrity, sexual and reproductive health and related rights of the individual.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the human rights report because i believe that the policy of the european union must be increasingly clear on the issue of women's rights and lgbti rights. as socialists and democrats we cannot but support a policy which guarantees security, legitimacy and self-determination. some rights are and must remain inalienable, such as the physical integrity and decision-making autonomy of women. we must also ensure that homosexuality is no longer considered, under any circumstances, a criminal offence. we must fight politically against discrimination of a homophobic and transphobic nature and we must promote equality as the only solution to overcome the constant violation of human rights.
in writing. ‒ while expressing some shared principles, this report contains many passages which are unclear and which are difficult to apply in the context of international relations, and for these reasons i have preferred to abstain.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on relations between the eu and the league of arab states for cooperation in the fight against terrorism. the security situation in europe has changed a great deal in recent years, both because of new conflicts and upheavals in the immediate neighbourhood and because of the growing radicalisation which often leads to violence and terrorism. the terrorist threat, in particular from syria and libya, cannot therefore be underestimated and must be mitigated through a comprehensive approach combining diplomatic, socioeconomic, development, conflict prevention, peace-building and crisis management tools. the strategic dialogue between the eu and the league of arab states on political and security issues should also be intensified, with the aim of developing ever more timely responses to crises. in addition, the european union is obliged to increase cooperation both with muslim communities in europe and with muslim countries outside europe in order to develop an effective policy of de-radicalisation, which i believe is absolutely essential to tackling the root causes of terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report on the eu-league of arab states memorandum of understanding on counter-terrorism, also because it is tangible evidence of the rejection of the rhetoric of a clash of civilizations. a concrete and joint commitment is needed (both between the eu and arab states and within the two groups) to prosecute not only those who directly commit terrorist acts, but also those who, more or less indirectly, subsidize or contribute to the organization of such acts. i therefore voted in favour of the text, and we shall ensure that the commitments we have made are not just a figure in the sand.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that an effective fight against terrorism can only be guaranteed through joint action and cooperation by the union and the arab league states. i also strongly believe that in order to strengthen defence, it is essential to cooperate in order to identify concrete measures to deal with terrorist threats, including the fight against radicalisation, recruitment and displacement of terrorists and foreign fighters, as well as fighters returning to their places of origin.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i welcome cooperation and partnership between the eu and third countries in the fight against terrorism, and in working closely with regional actors such as the african union, the gulf cooperation council and the league of arab states, as well as the united nations counter-terrorism committee. however, i would remind you that counter-terrorism measures must never be abused to suppress legitimate dissent or to violate the universal human rights of individuals.
in writing. ‒ communication plays a key role, which is why i welcome the ep's desire to overcome the widespread image of a 'clash of peoples' between the west and the east. i consider this a fundamental step in cooperation in the fight against terrorism. in this regard, i welcomed the statement by the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy of 19 january 2015 on her position on victims of terrorism: the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not eurocentric but that it is aware that the primary victims of this phenomenon are muslims and islamists. on this basis, a system can be created in which there is a functional exchange of information between the intelligence services of the member states of the european union and the league of arab states. that's why i'm voting yes.
in writing. ‒ new forms of global terrorism threaten every corner of the globe, spreading a sense of insecurity that often provokes irrational and wrong responses. on the other hand, if the challenge is supranational, so must be the response, by cooperating to achieve the best possible coordination by national governments and regional and international organisations, operating in full respect of international law, fundamental values and human rights. once again, europe can play an extraordinary role in mediation and synthesis, particularly with the countries of origin of the phenomenon. in view of the fact that in the fight against terrorism it is essential to address not only the consequences but also the underlying factors of radicalisation, and that to do this requires an approach which does not underestimate the importance of promoting a culture of inclusion and tolerance, it will be crucial to pursue the path of dialogue with the authorities of the arab league countries, aiming at the construction of a real defence strategy, which accompanies progress in the growth of political and civil liberties.
in writing. ‒ i do not fully support the report as some of the principles contained in the text, especially those relating to the fight against terrorism, are more than agreeable, but the report is not consistent with the eu's current work in the field of foreign policy.
in writing. i voted with conviction for the important european parliament resolution which takes note of the signing of the memorandum of understanding between the union's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini, and the secretary-general of the arab league, nabil elaraby, on cooperation and the fight against terrorism. we also heard it from the authoritative words of the sovereign of jordan two days ago: the european union and the arab states must understand the need to establish new relations based on dialogue and mutual cooperation for the security and stability of the mediterranean area and the middle east. i would like to stress, as the text of the resolution rightly does, the need to respect universal human rights at all times in the fight against terrorism: counter-terrorism measures must never be abused to repress legitimate dissent or to violate the universal human rights of individuals.
in writing. ‒ with this vote we strongly supported the value of cooperation with the countries of the league of arab states in the fight against terrorism: a direct threat against every person, of every ethnicity and religion. a struggle that can only succeed through a global alliance, keeping the basic principles of human rights intact. the european union must not allow itself to be overwhelmed by the tragedy of the war in afghanistan. fighting the ideology of terror also means consolidating the rule of law. civil rights cannot be sacrificed on the altar of security. there is no right without security, and no security without rights. terrorism is a global challenge to which we must provide global responses. international cooperation in the fight against extremist groups is essential to tackle at the root the factors leading to the radicalisation and spread of this totalitarian ideology.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the eu-league of arab states relationship and cooperation in the fight against terrorism. this is a sensitive issue even more so at the moment: terrorism and violent extremism pose serious threats to security and freedom worldwide. one of the results of terrorist acts is that freedom of expression is also targeted, which is not possible given the existence of fundamental rights which must be respected. another phenomenon to be counteracted is the movement of fighters from europe to various destinations with the intention of fighting jihad, which according to various forecasts is destined to persist in the coming years.
in writing. ‒ greater cooperation between the european union and the league of arab states, based on strong diplomatic relations and a mutual exchange of information, would help to stem the advance of the terrorist threat. i felt it was my duty to express my support for the resolution, because i think it makes a good point of the need to strengthen the link between the parties. i think it is desirable that the european union and the league of arab states should stand together against the rise of jihadist extremism.
in writing. ‒ terrorism is a threat to security and freedom worldwide and must therefore be countered by a coordinated effort by national governments and regional and international organisations. we welcome the joint efforts to launch a strategic and structured dialogue between the eu and the league of arab states. we welcome the growing number of initiatives across europe bringing together different communities and religious groups against extremism and in defence of fundamental values and freedoms, and welcome the recent eu-arab league memorandum which places dialogue and cooperation at a multilateral level. the policy of de-radicalisation and the fight against terrorism can only be effective if the muslim communities in europe play an active role and if dialogue and close cooperation with muslim countries outside europe are guaranteed. we must continue to cooperate, to promote universal respect for all human rights, including the right to economic and social development, freedom of expression and freedom of religion and belief, while upholding the values of tolerance and coexistence among different religions and rejecting exclusion, extremism, incitement and the spread of hatred and violence.
in writing. ‒ the text of this resolution strongly supports cooperation between the eu and the league of arab states in the fight against terrorism, stressing that the phenomenon can only be countered through a global alliance, in full respect of international law, fundamental values and international human rights standards. in addition, in order to ensure adequate democratic and judicial oversight, it is requested that the memorandum of understanding signed on 19 january 2015 between the european external action service and the general secretariat of the league of arab states on cooperation in counter-terrorism, combating organised crime and countering the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction be made public. the document also stresses the importance of closer cooperation in the promotion of human rights. arab countries and eu member states must protect religious minorities and fully implement the eu guidelines on the promotion and protection of freedom of religion or belief. in the light of the foregoing, i have decided to support the resolution.
in writing. whereas the promotion of democracy and respect for human rights and civil liberties are fundamental principles and objectives of the european union and constitute a common basis for its relations with third countries; that, in accordance with international human rights law and in particular article 18 of the international covenant on civil and political rights, every individual has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; whereas the un and other international organisations have denounced the serious and widespread violations of international humanitarian and human rights law by isis/da'ish and associated groups in syria and iraq, in particular against ethnic and religious minorities, including targeted killings, abductions, sale of women, enslavement of women and children, recruitment of children for suicide bombings, sexual abuse and torture; dismayed and saddened by the brutal actions of isis/da'ish extremists against the assyrians in syria and the copts in libya; strongly condemn isis/da'ish and its serious human rights violations which amount to crimes against humanity and war crimes under the rome statute of the international criminal court (icc). that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the global threat of terrorism must be countered through a global alliance that enables us to deal effectively and in a coordinated way with the danger of terrorist attacks. this action must be coordinated not only between the member states but also with third countries, and in particular with the league of arab states. to this end, the eeas reached a compromise last month which led to the signing of the 'memorandum of understanding between the eu and the league of arab states on cooperation in the fight against terrorism'. the threat has become real and present everywhere, and it is no longer confined to muslim states, as the sad events of recent months in france and denmark have shown. that is why i am in favour of the implementation of repressive and coordinated measures, particularly to prevent the development of terrorist-type nuclei, by implementing and promoting with third states the resolutions adopted by the un security council.
in writing. ‒ i am naturally in favour of the european union and the league of arab states cooperating effectively in the fight against terrorism and i believe that the launch of a strategic dialogue to this end is of great importance. we have seen from our past experience that cooperation in the fight against terrorism was weak, so we must rely on this renewed commitment of the eu and the league of arab states to have a more comprehensive and precise strategy on counter-terrorism measures, to fight extremist groups and to act more decisively to neutralise recent phenomena such as foreign fighters.
in writing. ‒ on 19 january 2015, the high representative and the secretary-general of the arab league signed a memorandum of understanding to strengthen relations between the two parties, which provides for enhanced dialogue and cooperation in the areas of combating terrorism, fighting organised crime and countering the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. it is essential that the efforts of individual member states and the european union be combined with those of international organisations and cooperation with arab and mediterranean countries.
in writing. i decided to abstain because the report doesn't convince me. some of the principles contained in the text, especially those relating to the fight against terrorism, are more than acceptable, but the report is not consistent with the ineffective work of the european institutions on the international scene.
in writing. ‒ while i agree with some of the passages in the resolution analysing the sustainable exploitation of the river basin, i believe that there are too many ambiguous and unclear passages, which is why i abstained, pending the next co-decision phase to evaluate the text.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the sustainable exploitation of the sprat because the state of the sprat stocks is worrying, despite the emergency measures already adopted by the commission and the national management measures to conserve the species. the species is a highly sought-after species in the fishing industry because of its high economic value and its fishing is therefore of interest to a considerable number of vessels. the replenishment of the spruce population requires a very long period, given the still very high mortality rate and the fact that spruce is a slow-growing and late-maturing species. i therefore believe that the exploitation of the sea bass during breeding seasons should be particularly limited as it visibly slows down the renewal of the stock and prevents its replenishment. the resolution adopted by parliament also had the merit of inviting the commission to propose a multiannual management plan for plaice which would allow stocks to be raised above levels capable of producing maximum sustainable yield, involving professional fishermen, recreational fishermen and advisory councils in the preparation of such a management plan.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu) no 1380/2013 of 11 december 2013 on the common fisheries policy provides that stocks are to be restored or maintained above levels capable of producing the maximum sustainable yield. several studies show that the state of the stock of sprat is alarming, despite the emergency measures already adopted by the european commission. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the need to put in place comprehensive measures to manage the bluefin tuna fishery at european level in order to safeguard this species. i am firmly convinced that these measures must also take account of scientific knowledge and promote proximity management and the principle of rationalization.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution banning pelagic trawl fishing for plaice during the breeding season because it is precisely this breeding phase that plaice is dependent on in the seas. targeted fishing on those spawning aggregations during the period in question contributes significantly to the reduction in the number of adult specimens able to reproduce successfully. i am concerned that the reproductive biomass of the stock is about to reach historically low levels, given that current fishing mortality is almost four times higher than the stock can sustain. i therefore believe that measures should be taken to reduce fishing mortality substantially.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of this resolution because the state of the stock of plaice in union waters is worrying. the lack of scientific studies on this species has led to the adoption of emergency measures by the commission, although these will expire in april this year. the committee on fisheries therefore felt it necessary to table this resolution, urging the commission to consider the possibility of introducing a quota tac system for this species and to accompany it with a multiannual resource management plan, in line with the guidelines of the new common fisheries policy (cfp). the resolution takes account of the need to take certain measures to repopulate the stock without underestimating two important factors: the importance of recreational fishing for this species (an estimated quarter of catches come from sport fishing) and its high commercial value.
in writing. ‒ i cannot fully support the report, since the only known measure is a strict closure of fishing activities. if the text improves, i shall be happy to give my full support to the report.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the sustainable exploitation of the coastline. it recalls many shared principles, including the need to identify measures for the management of the spiny lobster fishery in the european territory aimed at ensuring adequate protection of the species. the scientific literature shows that the state of the stock of spelt is worrying, despite the emergency measures already adopted by the european commission in this field.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the motion for a resolution on the sustainable exploitation of the coastline, as this is a subject which is linked to a number of priorities at european level. a multiannual management plan for plaice is needed to bring stocks above levels capable of producing maximum sustainable yield, taking care to have sufficient scientific data for the calculation. identifying a total allowable catch and having a minimum landing size is part of the criteria necessary to implement sustainable fishing. the technical measures are varied, as are the problems connected with discards at sea, but all of them are necessary for a practice consistent both with the need to manage fisheries efficiently at a regulatory level and to meet the needs of those who carry out the work and thus protect the image of the fisherman in the best possible way.
in writing. ‒ several scientific studies indicate that the current state of the stock of sprat is worrying, despite the fact that the european commission has already implemented emergency actions in this specific sector. this resolution, which i have supported, draws attention to the need to identify community measures for the management of the anchovy fishery in such a way as to ensure adequate protection for this marine species. i consider that action to be absolutely necessary and have therefore decided to vote in favour of this document.
in writing. ‒ national management measures for the european hake fishery have so far proved insufficient to maintain the species and have not solved the problems of sharing and access to resources. new regulatory measures are needed to promote the management of proximity and the principle of regionalisation. we are asking that these decisions be made with the involvement of all the parties concerned. we call on the commission and the member states to use the european fisheries fund, which provides funding for the collection of scientific data, and to propose a multiannual management plan in order to maintain the stock at a maximum sustainable level. we recall that multiannual management plans should be prepared under the codecision procedure, and we therefore expect the ep to be actively involved in the whole procedure. account should be taken of the different management measures for commercial fisheries, the establishment of a tac (total allowable catch) and the need for a scientifically sound decision on the minimum landing size, as well as possible spatial and temporal bans, with the resulting difficulties in calculating historical catches, allocating quotas at national level and covering recreational fishing activities.
in writing. ‒ the longline is a slow-growing, late-maturing species whose fishing mortality rate is currently four times higher than maximum sustainable yield levels. in view of the worrying state of this stock, which could be on the verge of collapse, the resolution considers that management measures for the european eel fishery are necessary in order to safeguard this species and calls on the commission to propose a multiannual management plan for the eel which would bring the stocks below maximum sustainable yield levels. in the light of the foregoing, i have decided to support the resolution.
in writing. ‒ whereas scientific information on the state of the stock of sprat, in particular the data available on the exact boundaries, migratory routes of the stock and the breeding grounds of the sprat, is insufficient; whereas the international council for the exploration of the sea (ices) identifies four types of anchovy stock: celtic/manx/north sea, bay of biscay, waters west of the iberian peninsula and west of scotland/ireland; whereas the plaice is a noble species in great demand in the fisheries industry; calls on the commission to propose a multiannual management plan for plaice to bring stocks above levels capable of producing maximum sustainable yield; stressing the need to involve professional fishermen, recreational fishermen and advisory councils in the development of this management plan; considering that a multiannual management plan for plaice focuses in particular on the introduction of a total allowable catch and on the need for a decision with a sound scientific basis as regards the minimum landing size and spatial-temporal prohibitions to protect reproduction, as well as other technical measures; i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on plaice because i believe that it is of fundamental importance for the conservation of fish stocks that there are clear management measures for plaice fishing at european level. i therefore think it is right that a multiannual plan for the management of the cod fishery should be drawn up, firstly to determine commercial fishing, with maximum catch quotas and indications on minimum size, to identify the periods for reproduction, renewal of the stock and its replenishment is of primary importance, and then recreational fishing indicating quantitative and temporal limitations. the ultimate objective must be good management of the exploitation of the sprat to maintain the stock at the highest possible levels.
in writing. i decided to abstain because the proposal's mechanism contains elements useful only for monitoring and collecting data on the health status of stocks, also mentioning the useful difference between the recreational and the commercial fishing sector. however, the 'spirit' of the measure is too broadly oriented towards a strict closure of fishing activities and appears to be a 'delegation in blank' to the commission, which can thus reject a regulation which risks, on the basis of partial technical assumptions, having a negative impact on the sector.
in writing. ‒ i did not intend to support the report on the eu's priorities for the un human rights council with my vote, because it goes beyond a mere list of principles, without offering concrete ideas for shared solutions; the european union is also unable to be as forceful in condemning islamic extremism as it was in dealing with the paris attack last january.
in writing. today i voted in favour of the resolution on the 28th session of the united nations human rights council (unhrc). i think that the resolution we have adopted is a valid one, and one which has the merit of touching on many of the issues which are dear to parliament. it stresses the importance of addressing growing inequalities in order to combat poverty in general and to promote social and economic rights, including facilitating access to food, water, education, healthcare and adequate housing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the resolution also condemns the misuse of religion by extremist and jihadist groups in all countries, in particular in syria, iraq, libya, myanmar/burma, nigeria and central africa. finally, i think it is very important to refer to women's rights and to condemn in the strongest possible terms all forms of violence against women.
in writing. ‒ the document under consideration is a good resolution, which addresses the issues of respect for human rights at global level. i therefore voted in favour, hoping that the directive and the information contained therein will not remain a dead letter. we often do not have the direct means to prevent violations in the world, but we can do so through different policies.
in writing. - the un does a great job but with limits. the european parliament should try to learn from the problems of the other supranational institutions, whereas in the case of this report i have seen some attempts to fall back on diplomatic games which block decision-making. the practice of name and shame is not very sensible when it comes to states, and it fosters hatred which magnifies the problems instead of solving them. my vote is motivated by a desire to take the opposite approach.
in writing. ‒ all human rights are indivisible, interrelated and interdependent. the lack of respect for human rights and the absence of legitimate democratic participation are the causes of instability, state failure, humanitarian crises and armed conflict. these are concepts that must be constantly reiterated and supported. that is why i voted in favour. with particular reference to individual human rights, which i consider interdependent, i spoke in favour of lgbti rights. in europe, attitudes towards homosexuality and transsexualism vary widely from country to country. in many european countries including belarus, georgia, lithuania, macedonia, moldova, russia, serbia and ukraine lgbti people are denied the right to freedom of expression, assembly and public demonstration. authorities in several countries promote intolerance and fear against lgbti communities who are discriminated against in law and practice. pride events have often been banned or participants have not been protected from violent disruption by homophobic groups. that is why it is important to keep the focus high on the point and i have indeed spoken in favour of the point.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the resolution because it does not offer any points of particular interest and merely lists principles and good intentions.
in writing. on the occasion of the european parliament resolution on the priorities of the union for the 28th session of the united nations human rights council in 2015, i have the pleasure to welcome with the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy the issues and urgencies identified and set as essential and determined policies for the european union and its member states. in the light of the european charter of human rights, but above all of the eu strategic and action framework for human rights and democracy of 25 june 2012, europe, as a symbol of the safeguarding of the universality of human rights, confirms its commitment with adequate funding and with all support measures at its disposal to promote the work of the united nations human rights council and the unhchr. it is essential in this context to encourage the participation and involvement of civil society in the protection of freedom of speech, religion and association and to strongly condemn the death penalty, torture, forms of discrimination and violence, exploitation and repression. europe must remain the symbol and guarantor of a solid and priority system based on values, dignity and democracy, and must be vigilant in the face of emergencies and fragility that still persist.
in writing. ‒ the defence of human, civil and political rights is one of the cornerstones of the european union and as such we must work to safeguard these rights alongside the united nations human rights council. i believe, however, that in this case the joint motion for a resolution by the various political groups in this parliament has exceeded the powers of the european union in foreign policy, and that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ in the run-up to the 28th session of the united nations human rights council, to be held from 2 to 27 march, the european parliament has expressed its opinion on the priorities identified by the european union for the council. i fully share the content of a resolution which refers to the need to put the safeguarding of human rights above any economic and/or political interest, and i have decided to support it by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ respect for, and promotion and safeguarding of, the universality of human rights are an integral part of the european union's ethical and legal acquis and constitute one of the cornerstones of european unity and integrity. in view of the work of the un council, we would like to stress our full support for a number of horizontal issues which will be addressed: the universality and indivisibility of civil, political, economic and social rights in accordance with article 21 of the treaty of lisbon; the protection of the rights of women and children; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-morocco joint action on the prevention of and fight against drugs and drug addiction. we reiterate our call on the european union and all member states to sign and ratify the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, recalling the eu's commitment to mainstreaming human rights and gender issues in the missions of the common security and defence policy, in line with the historic un security council resolutions 1325 and 1820. we call for the systematic participation of women to be recognised as an essential component of peace processes and the need to integrate gender perspectives into democratic transition processes.
in writing. ‒ the resolution reviews the human rights situation in the world and sets out the eu's priorities for the 28th session of the un human rights council (unhrc), including the abolition of the death penalty, respect for human and children's rights, and the fight against climate change. considering that the promotion and safeguarding of the universality of human rights is not only an integral part of the ethical and legal acquis of the european union, but also one of the cornerstones of european unity and integrity, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i wish to express my vote in favour of the resolution on the european union's priorities for the un human rights council, as i believe that the defence of the rights of the individual is a fundamental value that the eu and its parliament must be at the forefront of upholding. we cannot turn a blind eye to the persistent violations of human rights that still occur outside the union, at its borders and, unfortunately, also within the union. any threat, discrimination and repression of fundamental freedoms must be firmly condemned and violators of the law isolated. i hope that europe will be able to speak with one voice more and more about human rights, and i therefore join parliament in calling for the eeas to act more quickly and effectively so that better cooperation between the european union and the united nations can strengthen monitoring, strengthen promotion and ensure an appropriate response in cases of violations of rights.
in writing. ‒ whereas respect for, and promotion and safeguarding of, the universality of human rights is one of the cornerstones of european unity and integrity; whereas human rights are inherent in all human beings irrespective of nationality, race, sex, ethnic origin, religion or any other status; whereas all human rights (whether civil, political, economic, social or cultural) are indivisible, interrelated and interdependent and the deprivation of any one of them has a direct and negative impact on the others; the european parliament has voted in favour of the resolution, which calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to promote the development of a common foreign and security policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the eu must make its strong and united voice heard at the un, giving credibility and coherence to parliament's action to guarantee civil, political, social and economic rights, in particular those of women and children. i naturally support the eu priorities listed in the resolution, in particular the need to address the difficult situations in countries such as egypt, syria, myanmar, belarus and south sudan. the eu must also bring to the attention of the un human rights council issues concerning other more topical rights such as the protection of indigenous peoples whose lives and natural habitats are threatened by climate change, support for human rights defenders, protection for lgbti rights, protection of children's rights in armed conflict, the fight against torture and the death penalty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it is a priority for the european parliament to commit itself to supporting a structured multilateral human rights system under the auspices of the united nations and for the union to speak with one voice, loud and clear, especially at a time of serious instability in various neighbouring areas and not to the eu. the eu must also activate its delegations around the world to work to promote respect for human rights and democracy in even the most remote parts of the planet, with the maximum involvement of civil society.
in writing. i have decided to vote against this resolution because, beyond the mere listing of principles, which are even partly shared on the human rights front, it does not offer any points of particular interest or for which one can express oneself positively. when the text deals with the subject of the charlie hebdo attack, the references to the heavy responsibility of islamic extremists are too weak. there are also numerous misplaced references to alleged lgbti rights.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is essential that the eu raises its voice in defence of democracy and democratic principles which are currently being so flagrantly violated in venezuela. i therefore intend to vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in venezuela, where peaceful protests against the government of president nicolás maduro have led to disproportionate use of force against protesters by police, members of the national guard and out-of-control pro-government armed groups. i believe that this parliament should strongly condemn the use of violence against protesters. i also believe that the venezuelan authorities must ensure the release of all peaceful protesters, students and opposition leaders arbitrarily detained for exercising their right to freedom of expression. the european union, the member states and high representative mogherini should also urge the venezuelan government to establish an effective dialogue with other political parties. i believe that a meeting that allows all political actors to discuss the serious problems facing the country is the only way for venezuela to find lasting and decisive solutions that will improve the current conditions in the country.
in writing. ‒ as i said during the discussion on the situation in venezuela, we will continue to condemn any form of violation of human rights and limitation of freedom of expression, but we will also condemn any form of improper interference in a sovereign state. i hope that venezuela will soon be able to hold free and credible elections and that the confrontation will be political and not violent.
in writing. ‒ i express my deep concern at the worsening situation in venezuela. i am particularly concerned about the imprisonment of mayor ledezma and the attempt to revoke the parliamentary immunity of a member of parliament. they also condemn the persecution of students and opposition leaders. i am in line with the requests of the various un bodies and have therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure out of deep concern at the worsening situation in venezuela; condemn the imprisonment of mayor antonio ledezma and the persecution of students and opposition leaders; i join the call of the various international organizations for the immediate release of the mayor of caracas and the other arbitrarily detained persons. i hope that the venezuelan government will ensure that all judicial proceedings comply with international standards and i believe that respect for the principle of separation of powers is fundamental in a democratic regime, since the authorities cannot use the judicial system as an instrument of political persecution and repression of democratic opposition.
in writing. ‒ i did not sign the resolution on venezuela because i believe that it has a basic structure based on information sources that only report the views of the venezuelan opposition, while showing obvious shortcomings in reporting the positions and reasons of the government of caracas. in addition to the lack of balance in the reporting of sources, the resolution has broad traits of interference with the authorities of the bolivarian republic as well as a lack of respect for national sovereignty. i have voted against this resolution because i do not think it will bring any benefit to the already tense situation in venezuela.
in writing. ‒ the arrest of caracas mayor antonio ledezma, accused of conspiracy and imprisoned in a military prison, is yet another insult to the civil and democratic system that is being perpetrated in venezuela. one of the richest countries in the world in raw materials, but literally reduced to starvation, to the point that just last month a 14-year-old student was killed, by a gunshot blast by law enforcement, while protesting the lack of food and medicine. it is paradigmatic that a government accuses the opposition of conspiracy and at the same time authorizes the arrest and transfer of political figures to military prisons, as well as the possibility of suppressing riots with the use of firearms. once again europe and parliament have to call on governments - with whom we have trade relations - to commit themselves to the basic norms of democracy and respect for the opposition. it seems a fruitless exercise, but it is a proof that we are able to monitor, to pay attention and to never fail to support those who are fighting for the expansion of civil and democratic freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in venezuela, which explicitly calls on the government to immediately release the political protesters and opposition leaders currently arbitrarily detained and to respect constitutional guarantees and international obligations on the independence of the judiciary. the venezuelan government's responsibilities are increased by its role as a non-permanent member of the united nations security council. i believe that the venezuelan government must now embark on an inclusive political process, based on consensus through effective national dialogue and meaningful participation of all democratic political forces within the framework of democracy, the rule of law and full respect for human rights.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report which is balanced and strongly defends the civil rights of the democratic opposition.
in writing. in view of the many cases of arbitrary detention in venezuela, the latest of which was the arrest of the mayor of caracas, antonio lezedma, who was suddenly and forcefully removed from the city hall offices on charges of conspiracy and subversive activity against the maduro government, in view of the political persecution of political opponents and the media, and in view of the attitude towards criminalising anyone who seeks to promote peaceful, democratic and constitutional change in the country, the european union should intervene and demand the application in the country of the international covenant on civil and political rights to which venezuela has acceded and also become a promoter of the values that have always represented it: the european union is committed to combating torture, the degrading treatment of prisoners and political violence, to respecting democracy and the separation of powers, to releasing those still arbitrarily detained in prisons, and to calling for respect for human rights, civil and personal freedoms and for a political confrontation based not on violence but on dialogue and respect. for all these reasons, i fully support the resolution on the situation in venezuela.
in writing. ‒ i have expressed, by my vote in favour, my concern for the democratic integrity of this country. the denial of freedom of expression, the violence against those who claim the right to exercise political pluralism, all these things undermine the fundamental values of an institutional democracy. dialogue and political dialogue, which does not transcend into violence, are the preconditions for economic and social growth and development. i am thinking of the european business system with the same concern that i have for the citizens of european origin who live and work in that country and who have emigrated from the south of my country, and particularly from puglia, and i am allowed to address them with words of solidarity and political but also human closeness.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the resolution on the situation in venezuela because i believe it is important to urge the government of that country to take steps to promote a stabilization process which includes the release of political prisoners in full respect for fundamental rights. last february, the venezuelan opposition leader, twice elected mayor of the city of caracas, was unjustly imprisoned in the ramo verde military prison. the venezuelan government has authorized the use of force during demonstrations by students and opponents peacefully exercising their right to freedom of expression.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in venezuela. whereas the detention of civilians in a military prison is incompatible with international standards; the resolution also calls on the government of venezuela to take all necessary measures to ensure that the death penalty is abolished in venezuela.
in writing. ‒ last february, antonio ledezma, venezuelan opposition leader, elected for two consecutive terms as mayor of caracas, was unjustly imprisoned in the ramo verde military prison. the background to this episode is a situation of absolute deterioration of the rule of law. a large number of peaceful protesters, students, and government opponents have been arbitrarily arrested, simply for exercising their inalienable right to freedom of expression. the government has even authorized the use of force during peaceful protests on several occasions. i have supported this resolution because i believe it expresses very strongly the concern of the european parliament about what is happening in venezuela. i particularly appreciated the reference in the text to the need to urge the government of the country to take steps to promote stabilization, including the release of political prisoners and the full restoration of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ we express our deep concern at the continued detention of opposition politicians and the violent repression of the street protests that have erupted in recent weeks in venezuela. freedom of expression and the right to peaceful assembly are the cornerstones of any democracy: only respect for fundamental rights and freedoms and constructive and respectful dialogue conducted in a spirit of tolerance can help the country to emerge from the grave crisis and overcome future difficulties. we therefore call on the venezuelan government to release all political protesters and opposition leaders who are currently being held in military prisons; we call for an end to the violence and for the respect of our constitutional and international obligations regarding the independence of the judiciary, the right to freedom of expression, association and peaceful assembly and respect for political pluralism. we deplore the absence of a formal bilateral dialogue between the european union and the venezuelan government, considering it necessary to encourage further ad hoc human rights discussions during meetings between the eu delegation, member states' embassies and the venezuelan authorities, and therefore hope for a rapid resumption of the negotiations on the eu-mercosur association agreement.
in writing. ‒ i have offered my support to this resolution because it expresses, first of all, a strong condemnation against the authoritarian practices that the venezuelan government has implemented towards all opposition leaders. the european union, the member states and the high representative must use all the instruments at their disposal to urge the venezuelan government to reverse this trend by establishing an effective and constructive dialogue with the other political parties. i believe that a dialogue that allows all political actors to discuss the problems facing venezuela is the only way to find lasting and decisive solutions that will improve the current situation in the country.
in writing. ‒ whereas on 19 february 2015, antonio ledezma, twice democratically elected mayor of the metropolitan district of caracas and one of the leaders of the opposition, was arbitrarily detained by heavily armed bolivian intelligence service (sebin) officers without an arrest warrant or evidence of a crime; that following his imprisonment, antonio ledezma was charged with conspiracy and criminal association, offences punishable by severe prison sentences in venezuela, and was held in the ramo verde military prison; whereas president nicolas maduro announced on national radio and television that an alleged plot to destabilise his government by means of a coup d'état had been foiled; recalling that international obligations regarding the independence of the judiciary, the right to freedom of expression, association and peaceful assembly and political pluralism are foundational elements of democracy, calling on the venezuelan government to ensure that prompt and impartial investigations are conducted into the allegations, leaving no room for impunity, in full respect of the principle of the presumption of innocence and due process; i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am seriously concerned about the continuing deterioration of the political situation in venezuela and welcome the resolution. i find that the democratic opposition is being persecuted with violent attacks, there are restrictions on freedom of expression and assembly, the media are suffering from an increasingly pressing censorship that prevents them from carrying out their work in an independent and free manner. i hope that the government will understand the gravity of the situation and ensure that all democratic political forces participate fairly in the next parliamentary elections, so that elections can be held in a free and balanced manner, so that the country can undertake the necessary reforms it needs.
in writing. i decided to vote in favour of the report because it is a balanced report, strongly defending the civil rights of the democratic opposition and the legitimate interests of foreign investors, including european ones.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to note that the council recognizes that the crisis in libya requires the full attention of the european union, which cannot be limited to an observer role. i think we've been too long on the run and contradictory. i really hope that the mediterranean will once again be central to the action of our union. but i would like to focus today on the chapter on growth and employment, and in particular on the efsi. the guidelines are acceptable, but i would also like to take advantage of the presence of president juncker to put to him what i consider to be an essential point, namely that i am convinced that it is necessary to ensure that the investment committee has sectoral experts with specific knowledge of the situation on the geographical markets of intervention. this presence is essential, mr president, to enable your plan to take action in those areas where the benefits for the european market are greatest in the short and long term, while at the same time ensuring the achievement of the objectives of european economic cohesion. what i am saying is that the investment committee must work towards promoting european economic cohesion at the social and territorial level, while respecting the choice not to allocate resources geographically. we will only achieve the objectives of development and growth if our choices, if the choices that will be made, are capable of reducing the imbalances between the different regions of the union. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the problems of the regions. so i'll leave that to you.
we are calling on everyone to respect the deadlines, needless to say, also because we are a little late for the vote at 7 p.m. i have the pleasure of greeting the officers of the 21st carabinieri training school of the carabinieri of rome, who are with us here today. thank you for coming.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ms. chrysogonos, i'd like to ask you a question. since they are finding a wall in the council and they absolutely do not want to accept these obvious facts that you have reported, would it not be more appropriate to start assessing, since this stalemate will then generate a still greater crisis, a possible exit strategy or exit from the euro, or to start asking for it precisely in the council in a strong way?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the umpteenth european council on the greek question has once again used the language of austerity. i am sorry that mr juncker is no longer here, mr tusk, and perhaps i will be better understood if i speak to you too, so i will continue in german. today we see a repression in europe, a daily repression against an entire people. the german minister schäuble said: 'without the greek reforms, nothing will happen'. the president of the eurogroup, mr dijsselbloem, has threatened the greek government with quantitative easing, which would ease the banks' costs of the real economy. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. but germany has certainly undergone its circumstances. with the euro, german wages and salaries have fallen. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community. naturally, a german will not lose a cent for a greek, especially in times when the german people have to wear their belts. instead of the power of the high finance to fight, they have used the euro, an effort to seize and transform into a change of attitude. the monetary union has destroyed european solidarity and integration. greece will become a second cyprus because it refuses to see the problem, namely that the monetary union is not working. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the new member states, which will be the first to join the eu.
first vice-president of the commission.– mr president, honourable members, i only have a few remarks to make. first of all, i want to thank mr nuttall for devoting all the time he had today to the tragic events yesterday in france involving the germanwings aircraft. i think he spoke on behalf of all of us and i want to thank him warmly for that. secondly, many of the members of the european parliament have addressed the issue of the energy union today and i just want to start by saying there is a common thread between three of the main projects of this commission – the juncker plan, investment, the energy union and the digital single market. all three of them have as goals the creation of growth and jobs in europe and not to do this in a traditional way. because i believe that if europe thinks it can win in this enormous global competition on the basis of competition on wages or of competition on production costs europe will lose. europe can only win if it wins on innovation, if it wins on sustainability, if it wins on making an early transition into sustainable energy resources and sustainable social relations as well, because sustainability is about energy, it is about the economy and it is about social relations. i would like you to see these three projects connected to one another on that basis. i would like to underscore what has been said by many of your members that the energy union is obviously meant to protect us against blackmail from outside energy sources and producers. obviously it has a geopolitical importance but, apart from that, it also has the huge advantage of helping us in the transition – which is inevitable – to less dependency on fossil fuels and to a greater use of the huge potential of renewable energy, which does not only contribute to a better environment but which is also a driving force in innovation and creating a new form of jobs and a new form of productivity and a new form of economy for the european continent. very concretely on the questions regarding vat, this legislation has come into force recently but it was decided a long time ago. the commission is carefully evaluating it in a very pragmatic way and obviously the commission will never want this legislation to have adverse effects on small entrepreneurs who are very often at the cutting edge of creating new employment and creating new forms of business. we will very carefully evaluate the effects. if the effects are not the effects intended by the legislation, or simply not foreseen by the legislation at the time it was drafted because the economy has developed in the digital area in particular and developed far more quickly than we could have envisaged at the time seven years ago, or if there are adverse effects, then certainly the commission will take that into account. the two speakers on behalf of the ecr can therefore be assured that this has certainly been taken on board and that we had started on it before prime minister cameron raised the issue with us, but we certainly feel encouraged by the fact that he did.
president of the european council.– mr president, honourable members, i will be very brief because i know how heavy your agenda is today so i shall say just a few words. when it comes to the questions from ms grossetête, ms van brempt and ms harms, you are absolutely right that all five dimensions of the energy union are important. they are interconnected and mutually reinforcing no doubt, including renewables of course. but at this european council we have focused our discussions on some of these aspects, in particular energy security, but also the so-called ‘climate diplomacy’, because of the paris summit. you will know better than me that the eu took strategic decisions on climate policy for the first time in 2007, and in october 2014 we decided on the framework of climate policy until 2030. we will come back to it in the european council in view of the outcome of the conference in paris. you can be sure that it will be one of the most important things in my whole term. and you are absolutely right: i was too brief in my introductory remarks, especially when it came to the energy union, but i was given just five minutes and i always try to respect the rules and i am a guest here, so sorry about that. as regards the question from mr verhofstadt and this problem with informal meetings in brussels, the informal meetings in brussels and also during european council meetings are not my invention. in fact this is the most common method of work in brussels. we have dozens of informal meetings every day, especially during our meetings. i can assure you that such a meeting with mr tsipras, chancellor merkel, president hollande and the institutions was not a decisive meeting and it was absolutely clear for all of them, and also for the audience and for member states. what made it more important was that it was a clear request from prime minister tsipras and not from the largest member states. i have heard it said that france and germany, as the two biggest member states, requested this meeting but that is not true. it was the clear request of the greek government. the second point is that in fact the leaders of the eurozone member states asked me – even begged me – to do everything to avoid the risk of confrontation at the highest political level. in fact it is my job to avoid political crises and misunderstandings. we were certainly not ready to take the final decisions at the highest political level. this was also clear from my partners in the eurozone. regarding russia, i would like to recall a short part of our conclusion. the european council agreed that the duration of the restrictive measures against the russian federation, adopted on 31 july 2014 and enhanced on 8 september 2014, should be clearly linked to the complete implementation of the minsk agreements. you know my position and my opinion but, believe me, this is the highest common denominator today among the 28 member states. i am in complete agreement with you that perhaps we need a more ambitious and more proactive policy towards russia and ukraine but today this kind of agreement is what is in fact possible. i am sure that we should not downplay the significance of these conclusions. there was a very tough discussion about complete implementation. my feeling is that these conclusions about sanctions are relatively tough if i compare them to the mood or atmosphere among some member states. i feel responsible for this conclusion but i also feel satisfied. i know that in politics almost everything is about impressions and not about facts but, in this case – i mean russia and ukraine but also in the case of the greek crisis – i think the facts are much more important than impressions. i am quite sure that the results of our meeting regarding these two very difficult issues are quite satisfactory.
the debate is closed. i thank the council and the commission for being with us here at the highest level. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the conclusions of the european council meeting of 19 and 20 march represent a step forward towards the establishment of the energy union. i think it is very important in this respect that the council should indicate that the electricity and gas infrastructure projects, including interconnections, should be accelerated, with particular reference to the peripheral regions. it is in these regions and in the most disadvantaged rural areas that energy and gas infrastructure projects could not only ensure a major step towards full integration of the european energy market, but also bring significant social and economic value, fostering job creation, long-term growth and competitiveness in these areas. the council's reference to the importance of reducing emissions and developing the renewable energy market is also welcome. i think there is no reference to the need to reduce the eu's dependence on fossil fuel imports. i also think that the council has missed an opportunity to emphasize strongly the need to support research in the field of energy. it is clear that to develop the market for next generation renewable energy satisfactorily, increased investment in research is needed.
in writing. at the summit on 19 and 20 march, european leaders addressed three main themes: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commitments on energy and the energy union, although positive, remain rather vague at the moment. in addition to deciding on the first steps towards the energy union, the commitments to invest in renewable energy and energy efficiency were reiterated, and, without specifying specifics, to strengthen climate diplomacy in the run-up to the paris summit. the eu's foreign policy is based on the principle of the free movement of persons, and the eu's foreign policy is based on the free movement of persons. the solution cannot be to punish the greek people and to impose repeated austerity measures, which have shown their inadequacy in dealing with the crisis throughout europe, but a revision of the stability and growth pact, starting with the 3% rule in relation to the debt-to-gdp ratio.
in writing. the conclusions adopted by the european council on 19 and 20 march approving the european commission's framework strategy for the achievement of an energy union represent a further and encouraging step in the definition of a forward-looking climate and energy policy launched by the european union in recent months. as we know, the main problems in this respect are energy dependence, the fragmentation of energy markets and low investment in interconnections and infrastructure. as clearly detailed in the council's communication and conclusions, the european energy solution brings together, in a single vision, all the issues and issues inevitably involved: environmental sustainability, energy availability, security of supply, energy efficiency, the role of research and innovation, decarbonisation of the economy and investment in infrastructure. we must therefore focus on internal interconnections and at the same time diversify supplies, looking not only to the east but also to the south of the european frontiers. the envi committee, of which i am a member, and parliament all welcome the progress made and will continue to work towards the completion and functioning of the energy market and towards cop21 in paris at the end of the year.
in writing. energy union and foreign policy: the european council, as usual, paid more attention to rhetoric than to the search for credible solutions to revive the economy. the summit was limited to endorsing the old approach to the crisis based on structural reforms, private capital and fiscal consolidation (read: austerity), while the greek issue was addressed on the sidelines of official meetings, silently, after dinner, among a few selected leaders. a way of reiterating that the crisis is the sole responsibility of the greeks and not a matter of common interest, ignoring any link with the imposed austerity with adjustment programs, financial speculation or macroeconomic imbalances of the euro. yet this summit could have been an opportunity to completely overhaul economic governance, to relaunch a strategy against poverty and unemployment and to initiate, at the highest political level, a multilateral discussion on the solution to the greek and eurozone crises, weighing all options, including exit from the euro and sovereign debt restructuring. unfortunately, the absence of these issues at the summit makes me increasingly convinced that the underlying problem is the persisting inertia of the institutions, the lack of political will and of a sense of responsibility. which is perhaps even harder to correct than a liquidity shortage.
the agenda for the joint debate on fiscal policy is: commission statement on the decision adopted on the tax transparency policy (2015/2601 ((rsp)) report by eva kaili, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the annual report on taxation (2014/2144 ((ini)) (a8-0040/2015).
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we were told that something had to be done after the luxleaks scandal, that the commission would be fully committed to tackling the problem of tax evasion and tax avoidance by certain member states, as we all knew. president juncker himself, as a great expert in the field, with years of experience in luxembourg, had guaranteed that he would be personally involved in combating these phenomena which not only harm the member states but undermine the very concept of the european union, which also shows itself in this area as a mere front union, in which countries only try to impose themselves on each other by more or less lawful means. we would therefore have expected measures which were very different from those proposed by commissioner moscovici last week. the core of the problem continues to be ignored, through incompetence or bad faith: the fact that these systems, transparent or not, are in fact legal. we need really effective solutions, we cannot simply impose an obligation to exchange information between states and then exclude citizens from access to these documents. this is not what we need! the basic question is one: if the rules are not changed and these practices remain formally legal, the situation will never change and we will continue to argue endlessly about more transparency or less transparency and collaboration, without ever resolving anything. i therefore ask myself, along with 500 million european citizens, whether there is really a political will to correct this distortion. what is the point of talking about a united and united europe when these practices are allowed?
in writing. europe must act swiftly and effectively to address the imbalances created by tax transparency and tax avoidance and evasion. these phenomena, in addition to being illegal and intolerable behaviour, also constitute a considerable economic damage to the economy, at a time of such a great crisis in which every public resource must be found and made available for growth. the european parliament is devoting an important session today to the fight against tax evasion. i think this is an important sign in responding to the luxleaks and swissleaks revelations and scandals, which have rightly caused concern in the public. the next step is to take political and legislative action to reduce as much as possible the contradictions and differences between the various member states in tax matters, to eliminate the tax havens still existing within the eu and, above all, to ensure that the profits of large companies are actually paid in the countries where they carry out their production and trade activities.
in writing. i strongly supported the annual report on taxation because i shared the ep's overall approach to tax policy, which remains the prerogative of the member states, as it can prove to be a useful tool for promoting growth and the necessary deepening of emu. i fully share the need to shift the tax burden from labour to other forms of sustainable taxation so that all sectors of the economy contribute equally to growth and the creation of quality jobs. i therefore consider it very important that the commission has taken up with interest the draft ccctb directive on the common consolidated corporate tax base, provided that it excludes small and medium-sized enterprises and cooperatives, as requested in the 2012 ep resolution. i fully support the call on the commission to commit itself to submitting a legislative proposal to introduce a minimum corporate tax rate to curb unfair tax competition. finally, i call on the member states involved in enhanced cooperation on the ftt to reinvigorate this cooperation with a view to introducing a tax on highly speculative financial transactions and thereby introducing new forms of own resources in the eu budget.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the northern league is absolutely against this kind of intervention. it is a wrong choice that fuels further resentment, which tends to continue a trade war against russia that makes no sense whatsoever. in 2015, we need to talk to russia, we need to trade, we need to cooperate against international terrorism, we need to not play war games. and it is also ridiculous to talk about the sovereignty of a state which is not even part of the european union, when for the last 40 years a member state of the european union, cyprus, has had half its territory militarily occupied by that turkey with which some mep who is sitting here and talks about peace would like to share the future of the european union. i would prefer that these two billion euros be used for european citizens in need and not used to fuel other wars.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in ukraine remains worrying economically and socially despite recent developments. the european union cannot now withdraw from aid for the country's growth and that is why we feel that it is necessary to grant the assistance. the financial assistance proposed by the commission can make a contribution to the new international aid package for ukraine, either directly or indirectly, through the mobilisation and contribution of other partners. we are convinced that the interests of trade policy must be consistent with those of foreign policy and that at this stage it is necessary to continue to send a strong signal to a people in difficulty. the granting of financial assistance is also intended to send a signal to the ukrainian government to continue with structural reforms. we have had signs of the increased attention being paid to the fight against corruption and to the reform of taxation and public administration. we believe that these are steps in the right direction, which must include an increasing number of citizens as beneficiaries.
i have had a number of institutional meetings, starting with the president of the parliamentary assembly, who confirmed to me that the tunisian parliament was the main target of the terrorist attack. in the exchange of views with the various interlocutors i perceived the awareness that tunisia could be an ideal target for a terrorist attack. this country, which started the arab spring, is also the country most advanced on the road to democratic transition, and the ability of the political forces to bring about, not without a lively debate, a modern constitution and a unity government after the elections of a few months ago, can only be emphasized positively. we must also be aware that tunisia has been hit precisely because a successful outcome of this experiment would be a landmark for the whole region and for the whole of europe, because it would be the most comprehensive demonstration that it is possible to secure a democratic and free future in an arab country. and this is not acceptable to the terrorists, because their aim is chaos throughout the mediterranean region. the president of the tunisian republic has said: terrorism is not just a problem of tunisia, it's a problem of all of us. the bardo museum bombing killed many european tourists and had two consequences: the european union is also concerned about the situation in tunisia, which is already very alarming because of the events in libya, and the negative impact on tunisia's image, which has had devastating consequences - i am thinking in particular of the economic benefits of tourism. if we are clear about all this, then we need few words and many concrete facts. today, not tomorrow! europe has a more decisive task to face in tunisia than ever before, on two fronts. first of all, political support is needed for democratic institutions and forces, acting at the institutional and civil level, to strengthen the antibodies capable of confronting the ever more pervasive threat of the islamic state. and here, as the high representative pointed out, we, the european parliament, obviously have a role to play. and then we need a substantial financial contribution, immediately, along the lines of what we have just given ukraine in terms of financial assistance. this is the first test of the new neighbourhood policy, of its ability to be flexible and to identify priorities, and i have no doubt that for us, the socialists and democrats, tunisia is the priority today. madam high representative, i am aware of your sensitivity, but i ask you to take up our request and to make it possible as soon as possible, in addition to what you have said, for a political decision by the european commission and the council following up on the association council on 17 may, precisely to ensure that these facts respond effectively to the problems we have today in tunisia.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, why did this tragedy strike only tunisians, ladies and gentlemen? in recent months, i have visited tunisia three times to observe the smooth running of elections in the only country where the arab spring has truly borne fruit. today, when i think of the images of blood and death from the attack, i know that they will not succeed in erasing those of the moments i experienced: images tinged with enthusiasm, of that incredible commitment of the tunisian people in the preparation and organization of the elections. one word still rings out: thank you, choukran. thank you for being with us, for supporting and encouraging us as we reclaim our freedom of speech, vote and opinion, as we strive to achieve equitable social reform, as we begin to build a better future for our children. everywhere, in the polling stations and elsewhere in the country, i found hospitality, education and warmth. i also visited its museums, the wonderful bardo and its collection of mosaics, which testify to three millennia of trade and relations between europe and north africa. why tunisia, then? because some want to destroy its tourism and its economy, to stifle its democracy and the voice of young tunisian citizens. to plunge the country into anarchy, defending positions of strength with the flames of violence. to make believe, with terror, that there is no possible coexistence between islam and democracy. and that interest is not just the terrorists' interest, unfortunately. if we fall into the trap of the clash of civilizations or religions, this fallacious rhetoric will win. i believe the words of the king of jordan when he says that muslims all over the world will not allow terrorists to exploit their faith to commit intolerable barbarism. nor must we allow them to exploit us. we must redouble our efforts in a concrete way. only by cooperating and working together in the economic, political, security, social and cultural fields will we defeat, always together, the culture of force with the force of culture. yes, colleagues, we are all tunisians.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, let us not confine ourselves to condolences, which i of course share. unfortunately, many of the victims are my own countrymen. remember, isis is not fought with the lord's prayer or prayers, maybe even in latin, even in arabic. europe should rather provide tunisia with the appropriate military and intelligence resources immediately, and not just through the usual ugly figure of bureaucrats sent to wander around tunisia, staying in five-star hotels without concluding anything concrete. the first of the objectives is to seal the borders with libya, to seal these borders to stop the uncontrolled passage of the warriors of allah. and so i deplore the crocodile tears, as an italian, of certain governments who have done nothing to combat the phenomenon of foreign fighters and who are in the front row in front of the cameras crying at the funerals of the poor victims. we must do something concrete, seriously combat this danger and of course help poor tunisia. we're all going on holiday to tunisia!
in writing. the recent terrorist attacks on the bardo museum in tunis have dealt a severe blow to a country that is a symbol of freedom and democracy and that has taken to the streets in the wake of the attacks, with determination, against fundamentalism and terrorism. in the face of these heinous acts and in the light of the renewed climate of tension on the international scene, the european union is called upon to contribute to the fight against terrorism through a comprehensive strategy that is able to counter violence by identifying its deepest roots. the security of the mediterranean region must therefore be increased, but above all political, economic, social and cultural links must be strengthened, with the aim of creating a large area of in-depth mediterranean cooperation. only a renewed commitment by the european union to the mediterranean region can bring greater security to tunisia, the maghreb and the whole southern shore of the 'mare nostrum'.
in writing. the attack in tunisia was an incredible blow, right on the doorstep of the european house. but not only: it is an attack on the only instance of genuine democratization in the region. and it is above all for this reason, rather than geographical proximity, that we europeans, the european union, should feel involved. the path taken by tunisia after the arab spring is a model, where the tunisian islamic party, ennahda, participated in the creation of a secular constitution, in a perspective of collaboration and marginalization of extremist fringes. this journey did not end with the blind violence that struck him last week: tunisia is still a land of hope. but it's also a land with very serious problems: the country's economy needs substantial help to reduce unemployment in general and youth unemployment in particular. it needs a boost, which will enable it to accompany the efforts to democratize the institutions with a concrete hope of a better life for families. europe cannot look away: it is our duty to support the democratic process of states in difficulty, and this is an opportunity to give substance to the values and ideals on which we have built our common home.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we talk about europe, and europe often talks about this market union, the single market, monetary union, economic union... very often, i think, we talk about it without having a proper understanding of it. we consider ourselves, or should consider ourselves, a team, but we claim to play on the same team with 28 different rules. this is impossible, and we should also have the courage to say this to the citizens, to say that what is the problem of road hauliers in this particular case, but the problem of social dumping, wherever and at whatever level it is generated in europe, is determined by the lack of uniform regulation at european level and by the proliferation of millions of different internal laws, which of course determine this. so we are not surprised, we are not coming here to say 'we must protect the hauliers, we must protect the internal market', because we are all right and we are all wrong. but until we decide to have certain rules that guarantee workers on the one hand and the market and countries on the other at european level, this is the result that awaits us. so you're right about a fairer market. and the rules, when do we make them for this fairer market? because either we start giving answers that are certain or we keep talking about the same things, and then when it comes to giving concrete answers, i think of the gentlemen up there, who i imagine are the category and the direct concerned, we can also ask them not to applaud, but dear friends we must protect them, so when we decide to regulate a market and give certain and precise rules we can also say that they must not applaud, but the interests that must be respected are theirs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the europe of good intentions forgets to protect its citizens and its businesses and tramples on rights and rules in order to achieve its objectives. the single market has many advantages, but at the same time it is necessary to overcome many problems due to the economic and wage differences that exist in different countries and that lead to a distortion of competition. in italy, as in germany, there are road haulage companies from eastern european countries which, thanks to lower labour costs guaranteed by their home countries, charge lower prices and thus compete unfairly with italian or german companies, which are becoming increasingly impoverished and are being forced to close down. how can we guarantee the single european market and workers' rights at the same time? as the five star movement in italy, we have proposed to give minimum social guarantees to citizens and workers with a citizenship income, and we also share a minimum income from work. to reduce the gap with other countries we must now adopt rules in europe which take account of where companies actually do their work and which safeguard fair and honest competition. we need clear rules, based on reciprocity. it is not by bringing the enterprises of the individual member states to their knees that we can build this europe.
the german minimum wage law, which came into force in january 2015, presents us with a dilemma of enormous political significance. on the one hand, the fight to secure a minimum wage for all workers is a challenge which our political family has always taken on; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is contrary to the principle enshrined in the treaty establishing the european union, which guarantees the free movement of goods. in fact, if i can agree with the fundamental principle that every worker should have a dignified life, the way in which germany applies this law is wrong. the fact that we are asking for the documents proving our employment and wages, translated into german, to be sent by fax months before a transport operation - and i do not want to dwell on the old-fashioned method here - creates new burdens for businesses, but especially for those small hauliers who are not able to bear these costs. i therefore believe that the commission must take timely action to ensure that the principles of the union are not undermined.
the roma and sinti are a genuine european people, who have lived in almost every corner of this continent for many centuries, speak several european languages and would have the historical right to consider europe as their home, at least as much as other peoples. yet this people of 12 million people - more than belgians, portuguese or swedes - are discriminated against, persecuted and not recognized as a minority in many nations, including italy. i find it absurd that 70 years after the genocide of the roma and sinti europe is still having to discuss and has not yet established a day of remembrance for the victims of this crime. the roma in europe are still living in intolerable conditions, with a life expectancy of just over 60 years, high infant mortality and unemployment in some regions of over 90%. moreover, they are increasingly the target of attacks that do not evoke the same outrage as other forms of racism and often go unpunished. the democratic forces should take concrete action against this impunity and not merely make statements of principle. we, the members of the other europe, together with our roma candidate, dijana pavlović, have prepared a complaint against a member of this parliament, mr buonanno of the northern league, who will speak after me, who used the hitlerite expression 'the scum of society' in relation to the roma people during a television broadcast. we have to do this every day, enforce the laws we have made, fight this anti-gypsy shame.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am the one being branded as a european racist. i think the title of this discussion is "gypsy phobia" but what is phobia? it's used in psychiatry to say it's an unfounded fear. so i ask you: but is it unfounded fear when there are roma and gypsies stealing everywhere? of course, not all are the same, we would need more, but a large part of them are led to robbery, they are led to use children to go stealing - this is also said by the police forces - they are led to make sure that children do not go to school for their own will but only to go stealing. so, excuse me, you're celebrating roma and gypsies day on august 2nd and the other 364 days, what do we do about those who have been robbed? finally, the rights of the child: go and see what they do to their children! so if there is a right to the child, there is also a right, in this authoritative place, for me, to say the right to fuck all those who think that the problem does not exist! the problem exists, let's not be hypocrites! we have to do something. the past is past, everyone has their rights and duties. the duties are not to steal and the rights are to send your children to school and to work in a quiet and serene way!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there are four muos ground stations around the world. one of these is in europe, and it's in niscemi, sicily. the presence of muos in sicily is an example of how the will of the citizens and the rule of law disappear when they are confronted with the imperialist arrogance of the american colonizer, because that is what it is about. muos is for the american war effort only. nobody wants it, neither in sicily nor in italy, it is harmful to health and the environment, and an italian court has said so, despite the fact that the government believes that the citizens who have appealed were not entitled to do so, and it is a sensitive military objective, but foreign, on sicilian territory. no sicilian wants to do that, you can ask them one by one, and if europe were a community it would stand by those citizens who are fighting every day for their health and for the environment and defend them against this foreign military installation on our territory.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, an entire region of southern italy, apulia, is being brought to its knees by an epidemic which is destroying its olive groves. the primary cause of olive disease is currently identified in the bacterium xylella fastisiosa, but it is not certain that the bacterium is the real and sole cause, and a study phase is still needed, which i hope will be as rapid and timely as possible. the epidemic seems to have been defined too hastily and the eradication of olive groves proposed by commissioner andriukaitis could only be justified by the certainty that it is the only possible remedy. what is undoubtedly true is the very serious damage inflicted on the regional economy of apulia, with the threat to over 23 000 hectares of olive groves and the endangerment of an entire sector, which sees a possible drop in production of up to 40%. i ask the commission to take immediate action by providing for compensatory measures for farmers, by defining adequate compensation for any felling of plants and to invest more in research, the only real remedy capable of eradicating this cancer for agriculture in apulia and beyond.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the egf, the european globalisation adjustment fund, to support 928 greek workers in 16 enterprises in the broadcasting sector. i think it is right to support this funding which is going to support a region, attica, which has the highest unemployment rate in greece. the egf remains an excellent instrument for supporting businesses and workers affected by the crisis, but it needs a simplification of the bureaucratic process for its activation, so that it can have a positive impact on the lives of citizens, especially in this period of crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, since i maintain it is very important to deploy the european globalisation adjustment fund in order to help greek citizens who have lost their jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure to support employment and workers affected by globalisation.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf, set up to provide additional support to workers who suffer from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade) which refers to the application by greece for a financial contribution from the egf following 928 redundant placements in 16 broadcasting companies. the greek economy is in a severe recession: according to data from elstat, the greek statistical authority, since 2008 greek gdp has fallen by 25,7 percentage points, public consumption by 21 percentage points and private consumption by 32,3 percentage points, while unemployment has increased by 20,6 percentage points. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i regret that italian companies are not able to benefit more from the egf because of the lack of support from local and national institutions, which submitted only 14 applications in total between 2007 and 2014.
in writing. ‒ the present mobilisation of the egf is once again in attica, the greek region with the highest unemployment rate. the call for applications was based on the redundancy of 928 workers from 16 enterprises active in the audiovisual programming and broadcasting sector. this is the first egf application submitted by the sector, and the application was requested by the beneficiaries themselves to the greek ministry of labour. this is a particularly positive note, also because it has allowed for the identification of personalised intervention services since the redundancies took place in 16 different companies.
in writing. ‒ since the beginning of 2015, this is the ninth application for access to the globalisation adjustment fund on which the european parliament has taken a decision. it is a clear sign of the difficulties which are being experienced by all the countries of the union and which now affect almost all the sectors of activity directly or indirectly affected by this long economic and financial crisis. attica broadcasting, like many other greek companies, has been affected by the severe recession that has hit greece for the sixth consecutive year. despite the efforts and new business plans, the company recorded a surplus of 928 people. i voted in favour of greece's request to the european commission, which was also welcomed by the council's budget committee, to mobilise eur 5 046 000 to deal with the effects of the crisis and, above all, to support the many workers who are now unemployed.
in writing. ‒ the measure we have examined refers, compared to the 2015 budgetary framework, to the mobilisation of the egf for a total amount of eur 5 046 000 for greece. it concerns the redundancy of 928 workers. the request is based on the relocation of at least 500 workers over a period of nine months to enterprises operating in the same economic sector defined at the level of nace rev. 2 divisions. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade. according to the data cited by the greek authorities, the economy of the state is in a severe recession. it also reports that the severe recession has now been going on for several years and that public consumption has fallen by 21 percentage points and private consumption by 32.3 points, while unemployment has risen by 20.6 points. two main factors appear to be the causes of the excesses: the decline in household income due to the sharp rise in unemployment and the significant reduction in credit to individuals and businesses. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the egf for greece because i believe that this appropriation can represent a balance between the costs and benefits that may arise from the structural changes in world trade due to globalisation. i consider that the 928 redundancies in 16 enterprises in the programming and broadcasting sector in the attica region are an indirect consequence of these changes in the pattern of trade, since the global economic and financial crisis has on the one hand led to a decrease in household disposable income and, consequently, a collapse in purchasing power and the need to set spending priorities by severely restricting the purchase of information despite its importance and, on the other hand, has reduced loans to enterprises and individuals due to the lack of liquidity in greek banks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund egf/2014/018 gr/attica broadcasting for the following reasons. the fund provides support to those who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade or as a result of the economic and financial crisis. the greek authorities, long before the decision to use the egf, opted for the creation of personalised services for workers by dealing directly with the workers' representatives (there are 928 redundancies, spread over 16 different companies, but operating in the same field, due to the economic crisis). this last point is of particular importance since, as the report shows, the redundancies will have a negative impact on attica, which, it should be noted, already has the highest unemployment rate in greece. in conclusion, all the conditions for access to the fund appear to be met, which in this case consist in the loss of jobs due to the economic crisis and a considerable economic damage to the regional economy.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the proposal to allocate egf funds to the 16 companies involved in the broadcasting sector in order to protect the 928 workers who have been made redundant. in fact, at a time of severe economic crisis and in a country like greece, the granting of financial aid is the only instrument that can prevent further closures of businesses and job losses, further aggravating the situation of social emergency, which in some aspects could be considered a humanitarian emergency.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is once again faced with the effects of the crisis of recent years and the structural changes brought about by globalisation. the vote will be taken on the request for the european globalisation adjustment fund to be mobilised for the three requests on the agenda for this plenary session. the mobilisation of the egf, launched in 2007, has already supported more than 120 000 workers and is a key instrument of intra-european solidarity with the primary objective of re-employing the workers concerned. other procedures for requesting the mobilisation of the egf are already under way and will also receive staff support, with a view to the full and concrete implementation of the european union's social policies.
in writing. ‒ the greek economy is in a severe recession for the sixth consecutive year. according to data from elstat, the greek statistical authority, since 2008 greek gdp has fallen by 25,7 percentage points, public consumption by 21 percentage points and private consumption by 32,3 percentage points, while unemployment has increased by 20,6 percentage points. i supported the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund because it will enable the 928 workers laid off by attica broadcasting, a greek company affected by the major changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation, to be reintegrated into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide additional support to the greek workers of attica broadcasting, who have suffered the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the granting of the eur 5 046 000 fund for the 928 redundancies in 16 enterprises in the attica region, which is the region with the highest unemployment rate in greece.
in writing. ‒ it is the duty of the european union, in times like these, to stand by greek families and do everything possible to help as many people as possible in need. for these reasons, i voted in favour of greece's request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management.
in writing. i voted with conviction for mr kyrtsos' report calling for concrete aid to the workers of attica broadcasting in response to the request made by the greek government. greece has been hit too hard by the employment and economic crisis of the last five years. it is hoped that these measures, in addition to being an instrument of vocational reintegration as provided for by the globalisation adjustment fund, will also be understood as a gesture of openness and sensitivity on the part of europe. the redundancies of attica broadcasting's employees will have a further negative impact on a region which already has the highest number of unemployed in greece. i hope, therefore, that the unblocking of the funds will provide an immediate palliative and introduce measures to rebuild confidence and skills for the workers concerned.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the reports on the proposals for a european parliament and council decision to mobilise eur 5 046 000 and eur 3 746 700 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for the information sector in greece. dramatic events such as attica broadcasting, with the loss of 928 workers from 16 television companies, or the case of attica publishing, with the loss of 705 workers employed in 46 advertising companies, require commitment and solidarity. the two events have common origins, the economic crisis, and common responses: closures and mass redundancies. the fall in household income and purchasing power and the cut in business credit have weakened greece, opening up serious scenarios for areas such as the attica region, among the poorest in the country, and leading to the abandonment of services such as information, which are considered superfluous. this is all the more serious given the closure of the public broadcaster rtf at the behest of the troika, and the democratic vulnus caused by the lack of a pluralist information system. the egf's financing of personalised vocational retraining and training services, entrepreneurship and start-up grants is therefore a matter of european solidarity.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for greece. the request concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 5 046 000 relating to 928 redundancies in 16 enterprises operating in the nace group of companies in the 'programming and broadcasting activities' sector. the mobilisation of the egf will make it possible to co-finance key measures such as individual assistance in finding a new job, training and retraining courses and the promotion of entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ the profound transformation of the international trading system, attributable to the advance of globalisation and the economic and financial crisis, has led greece to dramatic economic and social conditions. according to the data cited by the greek authorities, the country's economy is still in a deep recession. i have chosen to vote in favour of the kyrtsos report, which calls for the mobilisation of the egf to support 928 redundant workers at attica broadcasting, because i believe that the european union, in accordance with the principle of solidarity, must not miss an opportunity to help member states in difficulty.
in writing. ‒ in greece, 928 workers were made redundant in 16 different enterprises in the field of television programming and broadcasting. we are voting in favour of the allocation of the egf funds in the form of subsidies for selfemployment and vocational training measures to support the creation of businesses.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for greece to support the reintegration into the labour market of attica broadcasting workers who have been made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade. according to the data cited by the greek authorities, the shortfalls were caused by the decrease in household disposable income due to the increase in tax pressure, the decrease in wages (both in the public and private sectors) and the increase in unemployment, which caused a collapse in purchasing power and the need to set spending priorities by severely limiting the cost of daily information. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed will be mainly directed at vocational guidance, training and retraining and will include job search and mobility allowances. we are therefore confident that these european incentives will be a valuable aid to the reintegration of these workers.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade. this application, the ninth under the 2015 budget, concerns the mobilisation of the egf in favour of greece for a total amount of eur 5 046 000. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the compensation for the costs of the public service obligations. in the light of the above, i have agreed to the kyrtsos report because i believe that workers, who are victims of the economic and financial crisis and of the market imbalances caused by the advance of globalisation, should have the full support of the european union.
in writing. ‒ whereas the union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers who are affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows or the global economic and financial crisis, and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market; that union financial support to redundant workers should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible, in accordance with the joint statement of the european parliament, the council and the commission adopted at the conciliation meeting of 17 july 2008, and in compliance with the iia of 2 december 2013 with regard to the adoption of decisions to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf); i welcome the fact that all workers have been offered vocational guidance, consisting of various traineeships, which will provide them with individual and personalised counselling and plans for re-entering the world of work, and i support the decision attached to this resolution. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i appreciate the efforts made by the european union to help our fellow citizens who are particularly suffering as a result of the global crisis. this application will help 928 people working in 16 greek companies, a country which is in great need of help at the moment.
in writing. i decided to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution because it calls for the mobilisation of the european adaptation fund to the tune of some eur 5 million to deal with 928 redundancies in 16 undertakings in greece carrying out programming and broadcasting activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the egf (european globalisation adjustment fund) in response to the request for financial assistance submitted by greece following the redundancies and closures of 16 companies operating in division 60 (programming and broadcasting). i believe that this contribution can be a valuable help to these 928 workers who are now unemployed and who will receive timely assistance for their re-placement through, for example, appropriate training, recognition of skills acquired throughout their career and an effective career guidance service.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund to support 928 employees of attica broadcasting, a group of companies operating in the field of programming and broadcasting in the attica region of greece. the redundancies are due to the global financial and economic crisis which, by reducing the disposable income of greek households and their purchasing power, has led to the need to reduce spending on non-essential services, such as daily information through television subscriptions. the redundancies of attica broadcasting will have a huge negative impact on the attica region, which already has the highest number of unemployed in greece compared to the other 12 regions. the eur 5 046 000 aid from the globalisation adjustment fund will help co-finance a package of personalised services of vocational guidance, vocational training, specialised training and education, job-search allowance and, for a number of selected workers, a grant to enable them to start their own business in order to promote entrepreneurship.
in writing. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund (gef) requested by greece to support 928 redundant workers in 16 broadcasting companies. the sector has been hit hard by the global financial and economic crisis, which has forced households to drastically reduce their consumption of non-essential goods and services, especially in those european regions that are most in difficulty, such as the attica region, which has the highest unemployment rate in greece. although i am absolutely convinced that the greek situation urgently requires a complete review of the current economic policies and the renegotiation of the financial agreements with the european partners, i believe that the egf is nevertheless a practical instrument to stem, at least in part, the very serious economic and social emergency that affects workers first. with this aid, amounting to over eur 5 million, europe will help co-finance a package of vocational guidance and training services, jobseeker's allowance and start-up grants.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the egf to the value of eur 3 746 700 for 705 redundant employees in the publishing sector in greece. the european globalisation adjustment fund is an indispensable instrument for remedying the malfunctioning of the internal market, but i would also stress here that its activation process must be speeded up in order to provide more effective support for our citizens.
per iscritto. ‒ i voted yes because the mobilisation of the egf is fundamental to support the redundant workers in greece.
in writing. - i voted for the measure. i support employment and workers who are victims of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf, set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade) which refers to the application submitted by greece in relation to redundancies in 46 publishing companies in the attica region. these losses in the publishing sector in the attica region are linked to the global economic and financial crisis which, in addition to eroding household disposable income, has drastically reduced lending to businesses due to the lack of liquidity in greek banks. the link between redundancies and the major changes in the world economic structure due to globalisation is therefore clear. i therefore voted in favour of this measure. i regret that italian companies are not able to benefit more from the egf because of the lack of support from local and national institutions which have submitted only 14 applications in total between 2007 and 2014.
in writing. ‒ the current mobilisation of the egf is due to 705 redundancies in 46 publishing companies in the attica region of greece, which in a particularly difficult state situation already has the highest number of unemployed compared to other regions. the crisis, which has been felt very strongly in the country, has eroded household incomes, causing a sharp decline in purchasing power, accompanied by a significant slowdown in banks' lending to citizens and businesses. it is easy to see how a sector such as publishing, which is central to all democratic societies, is heavily penalized by such a context.
in writing. ‒ the difficult economic conditions in greece are very evident. the recession for the sixth consecutive year has eroded the income of much of the population, with the consequent and inevitable reduction in purchasing power. the economic constraints faced by greek households have helped to give priority to those goods deemed necessary, thus reducing the consumption of other products, such as those related to the publishing sector. the crisis in attica publishing stems from this situation and unfortunately affected 705 people and 46 companies. i voted in favour of the request by greece to the european commission, which was also welcomed by the council's budget committee, to mobilise from the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 an amount of eur 3 746 700, in the hope that there will soon be an economic recovery at european level.
in writing. ‒ the measure we have examined refers, compared to the 2015 budgetary framework, to the mobilisation of the egf for a total amount of eur 3 746 700 for greece. it concerns 705 redundancies. the request is based on the relocation of at least 500 workers over a period of nine months to enterprises operating in the same economic sector defined at the level of nace rev. 2 divisions. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade. according to the data cited by the greek authorities, the economy of the state is in a severe recession. in addition, the severe recession has now been going on for several years and public consumption has fallen by 21 percentage points and private consumption by 23.3 points, while unemployment has risen by 20.6 points. two main factors appear to be the causes of the excesses: the decline in household income due to the sharp rise in unemployment and the significant reduction in credit to individuals and businesses. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the egf for greece because i believe it can be an adjustment to the structural changes in world trade due to globalisation. i find that the 705 redundancies in 46 publishing companies in the attica region are an indirect consequence of these changes, since the world economic and financial crisis, which is particularly affecting greece, has eroded the disposable income of households, causing a sharp decline in purchasing power and the need to prioritise expenditure, cutting back on what is considered non-essential to daily life, such as magazines and newspapers. i am particularly pleased with the resolution that all eligible redundant workers have been offered a career guidance service which includes several stages and will provide each individual with personalised advice and a plan for re-entering the world of work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund egf/2014/015 gr/attica publishing activities for the following reasons. the egf is the instrument promoted by the european union to provide support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation. the protection of the fund is subject to the condition that the excesses in question have a significant negative impact on the regional or local economy. in the present case, 705 workers were made redundant as a result of the economic crisis, from 46 different companies operating in the same sector in the attica region, which currently has the highest unemployment rate in greece. it is worth noting that the services provided by the greek authorities to the workers concerned, despite their enormous efforts, have not been able to solve the problem definitively because of its complexity. all the conditions for access to the egf appear therefore to be met, which in this case means the loss of jobs due to the economic crisis (numerous workers) and a considerable economic damage to the regional economy.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of mobilising the egf to protect the 705 redundant workers in the 46 publishing companies. at present, only by granting this aid is it possible to protect employment in an area of greece which has been hit hard by the crisis.
in writing. ‒ i supported the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for greece to support the reintegration of 705 workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. the events that caused the default, according to the greek authorities, were mainly two: the erosion of household disposable income resulting in a sharp decline in purchasing power and the drastic reduction in lending to businesses and individuals due to the lack of liquidity of the greek banks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide additional support to the greek workers of attica publishing who have suffered the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the granting of the eur 3 746 700 fund for 705 redundancies in 46 publishing companies in the attica region, which is the region with the highest unemployment rate in greece.
in writing. ‒ it is the duty of the european union at times like these to stand by greek families and do everything possible to help as many people as possible in need. for these reasons, i voted in favour of greece's request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management.
in writing. i voted with conviction for the report by mr christoforou calling for concrete aid for the workers of attica publishing activities, in response to the request made by the greek government. greece has been hit too hard by the employment and economic crisis of the last five years; the hope is that these measures, in addition to being an instrument of vocational reintegration as provided for by the globalisation adjustment fund, may also finally be understood as a gesture of openness and sensitivity on the part of europe. the redundancies of attica publishing's workers will have a further negative impact on a region which already has the highest number of unemployed in greece. i hope, therefore, that the unblocking of the funds will provide an immediate palliative and introduce measures to rebuild confidence and skills for the workers concerned.
in writing. ‒ i consider it necessary to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to support the reintegration into the labour market of 705 redundant workers in 46 enterprises operating in the 'publishing' sector. the aid granted today is a valid and active measure aimed at reintegrating workers. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report on the request for the mobilisation of the egf for greece.
in writing. ‒ the consequences of changes in world trade have had a negative impact on the greek economy, which has already suffered from a significant fall in domestic demand for some years. the european union must come to the aid of the country and its people if the burden of the economic depression is to be finally reduced. i therefore think it appropriate to express my agreement with the christoforou report, which supports the mobilisation of the egf to help 705 redundant workers at attica publishing.
in writing. ‒ in the publishing sector in greece (attica region), 705 workers from 46 different publishing companies were made redundant. support will be provided in the form of a job search and career guidance allowance, a training allowance and a job search and mobility allowance.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for greece to support the reintegration into the labour market of attica publishing workers who have been made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade. according to the data cited by the greek authorities, the redundancies were directly caused by the erosion of disposable income of households due to the increase in the tax burden, the fall in wages (of both public and private employees) and the rising unemployment which resulted in a sharp decline in purchasing power and the need to prioritise expenditure, cutting what is considered not essential to daily life. due to the drop in demand, the companies in the sector concerned (newspapers, magazines, etc.) suffered a decrease in sales of 60% for the period 2009-2013. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed will be mainly directed at vocational guidance, training, grants for self-employment, job-search allowances and mobility. we are therefore confident that these european incentives will be a valuable aid to the reintegration of these workers.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the economic and financial crisis and market imbalances caused by the advance of globalisation. on 3 february 2015, the european commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of greece. the application in question, the eighth under the 2015 budget, calls for the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 3 746 700 for 705 redundancies in 46 publishing companies in the period from 12 september 2013 to 12 june 2014. in the light of the above, i have agreed to the christoforou report because i believe that workers should be given the widest possible support from the european union. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of measures to improve the professional skills of these workers and to help them to find new employment opportunities.
in writing. ‒ whereas the union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers who are affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows or the global economic and financial crisis, and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market; that union financial support to redundant workers should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible, in accordance with the joint statement of the european parliament, the council and the commission adopted at the conciliation meeting of 17 july 2008, and in compliance with the iia of 2 december 2013 with regard to the adoption of decisions to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf); that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ with this report, the european parliament has approved the request from greece for the european globalisation adjustment fund to help 705 people in 46 companies who are insolvent. the european parliament is thus continuing its work on behalf of its fellow citizens.
in writing. i decided to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution as it calls for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to the tune of some eur 3.7 million to deal with 705 redundancies in 46 publishing companies in greece.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the mobilisation of the egf (european globalisation adjustment fund) in respect of the request for financial assistance submitted by greece following the redundant placements in 46 companies operating in division 58 ('publishing activities'). the communications sector has been hit hard by the economic crisis and 705 workers are now out of work. that is why i feel it is important to give my support.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund to support 705 employees of attica publishing, a group of publishing companies in the attica region of greece. the redundancies are due to the global financial and economic crisis, which, by reducing the disposable income of greek households and their purchasing power, has led to the need to reduce spending on non-essential services, such as daily information through subscriptions to magazines and newspapers. the commission also found that the average sales prices of the sampled union producers to unrelated customers in the union developed over the period considered as follows: the redundancies of attica publishing will have a negative impact on the attica region which already has the highest number of unemployed in greece compared to the other 12 regions. the eur 3 746 700 aid from the globalisation adjustment fund will help co-finance a package of personalised services aimed at supporting in particular the creation of new businesses through jobsearch allowances, but also covering vocational guidance, training measures, including vocational training, as well as jobsearch and mobility allowances.
in writing. i supported the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund (gef) for greece to assist the 705 redundant members of attica publishing, a group of publishing companies in the attica region, whose sales have fallen by 60% since 2009. as in the case of attica broadcasting, which is the subject of another egf intervention for the attica region, the redundancies are linked to the global financial and economic crisis which, by drastically reducing disposable income, has forced households to cut spending on non-essential products such as magazines and newspapers. with a contribution of eur 3 746 700, redundant workers will benefit from a package of personalised career guidance services and support for the creation of new businesses through jobsearch allowances.
in writing. i was present in the chamber when the chrysognos report was voted.
in writing. - i voted to repeal. the case concerns alleged defamation between members of the portuguese bar association. the member is the party on whom the charge is laid. i do not see that the facts are connected with parliamentary activity or that they can be traced back to the cases of protection with immunity provided for in the regulation.
in writing. ‒ the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr antónio marinho e pinto was requested by the judge of the district court of coimbra in connection with a possible judicial proceeding for an alleged offence. as the charges clearly have no relation to his office as a member of parliament, but result from his previous function as president of the portuguese bar association, i voted in favour of the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the text in question sets out the european parliament's reasons for the request to waive the immunity of antónio marinho and pinto, sent on 8 october 2014 by dr. rodrigo pereira da costa, judge at the district court of coimbra. having examined the documentation, considered that it is appropriate to request the parliamentary assembly to decide to waive the immunity, considering that the charges clearly have no relation to the office of member of the european parliament of antónio marinho e pinto, but result from his previous function as president of the portuguese bar association; moreover, there is no reason to suppose that a fumus persecutionis existed, and the case in question actually began before antónio marinho e pinto took up his mandate in the european parliament. for these reasons i thought i should vote in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ i do not find the report on the request for the waiver of the immunity of antónio marinho and pinto favourable. the member must continue to enjoy immunity, because as guarantor i shall continue to vote against these reports. immunity is a guarantee for the benefit of the independence of the european parliament as an institution and not for the personal benefit of its members.
in writing. ‒ the judge of the district court of coimbra has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of antónio marinho e pinto, member of the european parliament, in connection with a judicial proceeding concerning an alleged offence of defamation against former officials of the portuguese bar association. i have decided to support the report by mr chrysogonos, calling for the waiver of his immunity, as the charges against mr antónio marinho and mr pinto have nothing to do with his work as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ whereas the judge of the district court of coimbra has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of antónio marinho and pinto, member of the european parliament, in relation to possible judicial proceedings concerning an alleged offence, and whereas, pursuant to article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament enjoy, on their national territory, the immunities accorded to members of their country's parliament; that, in accordance with article 157 (2) and (3) of the constitution of the portuguese republic, no member may, during the whole of his term of office, be subject to prosecution, arrest, detention or other deprivation of liberty without the prior authorisation of the assembly; that antónio marinho e pinto is accused of defamation against former officials of the portuguese bar association and that the charges clearly have no relation to antónio marinho e pinto's office as a member of the european parliament, but result from his previous function as president of the portuguese bar association; i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i was present in the chamber when the zwiefka report was voted.
in writing. - i voted against it. the rapporteur does not see that the facts in question are connected with parliamentary activity or in any case fall within the scope of the cases of protection with immunity provided for in the regulation. the alleged defamation (the mp had commented on an accusation made by a private individual to the local authorities of the istrian province of which he had been governor) is not serious.
in writing. ‒ the lawyer of a private plaintiff has requested the waiver of the immunity of mr ivan jakovčić in the context of a trial concerning an alleged offence of defamation. since the statements concern a matter which predates the parliamentary term, there are no obstacles to the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the text under discussion sets out the reasons of the european parliament for the request to waive the immunity of ivan jakovčić of 23 october 2014. the president announced that, pursuant to rule 9 (1) of the rules of procedure, he had received a letter from the lawyer of georg list, a leading international businessman. having examined the documentation, the commission considered that it should request the parliamentary assembly to decide to waive the immunity, considering that the charges of defamation clearly have no relation to the office of ivan jakovčić as a member of the european parliament, but result from his previous function as governor of the istrian province; moreover, there is no reason to believe that a fumus persecutionis exists. for these reasons i thought i should vote in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ i do not see the request to waive the immunity of ivan jakovčić as favourable. as a guarantor, i remain convinced that my colleague should continue to enjoy immunity. i shall always vote against this type of report, stressing that parliamentary immunity is not a personal privilege of the member but a guarantee of the independence of parliament as an institution and of its members.
in writing. ‒ georg list has decided to file a defamation complaint against ivan jakovčić. the latter allegedly made disparaging remarks about him during an interview. at the time of the events, ivan jakovčić was a member of the european parliament. however, the statements attributed to him relate to a matter which predates the beginning of his term of office. for this reason, i have chosen to support, by voting in favour of the zwiefka report, which calls for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of ivan jakovčić.
in writing. ‒ whereas the lawyer of a private plaintiff has applied for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr ivan jakovčić, member of the european parliament, in the context of proceedings concerning an alleged offence of defamation; whereas by letter dated 14 february 2014, the permanent representative of the republic of croatia to the eu informed the president of the european parliament that, in the absence of specific procedural rules on the waiver of the immunity of a croatian member of the european parliament, the provisions governing requests for the waiver of the immunity of a member of the national parliament should apply and that, pursuant to those provisions, a request for a decision on the pre-trial detention or for the initiation of criminal proceedings against a member may be submitted by any competent state body, by the aggrieved party as a claimant or by a private claimant; i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the egf to the value of eur 2 490 758 for the 424 redundant workers at lufthansa technik airmotive ireland and two of its suppliers due to relocation to asia. the globalisation adjustment fund is a key instrument to support the internal market, but this europe should tackle its underlying malfunctions; we must stop the wild relocation of big companies to asia and china.
in writing. ‒ i voted yes since i agree with the decision to use the egf to support the irish redundant workers of lufthansa that have lost their jobs.
in writing. - i voted yes. the relocation to asian markets is causing irreparable damage and is bringing unemployment and poverty to europe. we must support the families of workers who are victims of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (the egf, set up to provide additional support to workers who suffer from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade) which refers to the application submitted by ireland in relation to redundancies at lufthansa technik airmotive ireland (ltai). the irish authorities argue that the shift towards the production of next generation aircraft and components, the shift to larger scale methods in the production of aircraft components and the geographical relocation of worldwide aircraft production have had a negative impact on the business model on which ltai was based, resulting in its closure. the surpluses therefore appear to be linked to changes in the structure of world trade. i therefore voted in favour of this measure. i regret that italian companies are not able to benefit more from the egf because of the lack of support from local and national institutions which have submitted only 14 applications in total between 2007 and 2014.
in writing. ‒ the request to mobilise the fund was made following 424 redundancies at lufthansa technik airmotive ireland ltd (ltai) and two of its suppliers in ireland. the southern and eastern region, which has important pockets of local disadvantage, is expected to be strongly affected by the redundancies. the region is characterised by a low level of education, a lack of vocational qualifications and high levels of public housing. the workers employed in this sector have very specific skills which are difficult to exploit in other sectors, which makes it even more difficult to re-position. the intervention measures will therefore be particularly focused on career guidance and career planning.
in writing. ‒ the effects on unemployment in recent years are not only linked to the economic and financial crisis, which is certainly responsible for most of the job losses, but also to the consequences of globalisation. this is the case for the irish branch of lufthansa technik airmotive, which has been affected by the change in the goods and services market in the production of aircraft and of next-generation components. if europe is to remain competitive, and above all if production is to remain within the union, not only european industrial policy but also the overall strategy must be reviewed to enable our companies to remain competitive on the international scene. i therefore voted in favour of the request from ireland to the european commission, which was also welcomed by the council's budget committee, to mobilise eur 2 490 758.
in writing. ‒ the measure we have examined includes the commission's proposal to examine lufthansa technik's application to mobilise the egf to support the reintegration of redundant workers. the request amounts to eur 2 490 758 for the irish state and provides for the redundancy of at least 500 workers over a reference period of four months. it should be recalled that the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers who are affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade. the irish state considers that the closure of ltai is the result of a major change in eu trade in goods and services, due to a technological migration towards the production of next generation aircraft and components, the shift to large scale methods in the production of aircraft components, with consequent market repercussions of the business model on which ltai was based, and finally the geographical relocation of worldwide aircraft production. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the egf for ireland because i believe that the fund is useful in overcoming the period of adjustment following the structural changes in world trade due to globalisation. i believe that the 149 redundancies at lufthansa technik airmotive ireland ltd (ltai) in the 'machinery and equipment repair and installation' sector in the 'southern and eastern' region of ireland are linked to these transformations, as demonstrated by the trend of us and western european carriers to send their wide-body aircraft to china for heavy maintenance and the fact that even the parent company lufthansa technik decided to base its global mro operations for the airbus a330/340 at its subsidiary lufthansa technik philippines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund egf/2014/016 ie/lufthansa technik for the following reasons. the application concerns 424 workers of lufthansa technik airmotive ireland ltd who were made redundant as a result of the economic crisis. the irish authorities will provide a range of personalised education or training services co-financed by the egf for up to 200 unemployed young people under the age of 25 at the time of application. these redundancies, because the skills of workers in this sector are very specific and not otherwise exploitable, will have a negative impact on the east and south of ireland, which is currently experiencing a difficult situation both from a microeconomic and vocational qualification point of view. in conclusion, all the conditions for access to the fund appear to be met, which in this case consist in the loss of jobs due to the economic crisis and a considerable economic damage to the regional economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting egf funds to ireland because the allocation of these amounts makes it possible to protect workers made redundant by lufthansa technik and two of its suppliers. in addition, the appropriation is intended to facilitate the search for employment for 200 unemployed young people in the area. i believe that the granting of these funds cannot be the instrument that can best help the workers, but in the absence of viable alternatives it must be supported.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. i supported the proposal to mobilise the egf for ireland because it will enable the reintegration into the labour market of 149 redundant workers at technik airmotive ireland who lost their jobs as a result of the major changes in world trade due to globalisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide additional support for irish workers at lufthansa technik who have suffered the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the allocation of the fund of eur 2 490 758 for 424 redundancies at lufthansa technik airmotive ireland and two of its suppliers.
in writing. ‒ as in the case of the vote in support of greek workers, i consider that the request for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, is fully justified and justified. these are loans requested by the irish government in respect of a sector, that of 'repair and installation of machinery and equipment', which has seen a reduction in total employment of 52% according to the irish authorities. the funds will be used to help redundant workers find new jobs and develop their skills. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. mr negrescu has an important report for us, and i would like to stress my support for it: the use of the globalisation adjustment fund is a very important instrument for expressing solidarity with families, workers and businesses. the application submitted by ireland for lufthansa technik involves almost 450 workers; i therefore think it is important to have a rapid and concrete response that can rebuild confidence and create new jobs. the excesses in the repair and installation of machinery and equipment, particularly in the southern and eastern region of ireland, are undoubtedly linked to the major changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation. europe must act, in accordance with its international commitments and its role as a global trading player, to adjust its competitive capacity and to relaunch a genuine continental industrial plan. with the investment plan, europe has embarked on a new path. i hope that we will now make bold choices with a great impact on production and employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission's proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to support ireland for a total of eur 2 490 758. i think it is appropriate to mobilise the egf as a valuable aid to help the 149 redundant workers at lufthansa technik airmotive ireland ltd to reintegrate into the labour market. the european union must act promptly to support its citizens and businesses affected by the crisis
in writing. ‒ due to major changes in the structure of world trade, attributable to the advance of globalisation, the economic sector of 'repair and installation of machinery and equipment' in ireland has suffered a sharp contraction. i am aware of this and have therefore decided to vote in favour of the negrescu report, which supports the mobilisation of the egf to help 424 redundant workers at lufthansa technik. community assistance will help to ensure that they can be reintegrated more easily into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ we vote in favour of granting funding for 250 redundant workers in the south east of ireland. the funds will also be used to provide employment services for some 200 unemployed young people under the age of 25 who are not in training or education.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for ireland to support the reintegration into the labour market of lufthansa technik workers who have been made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade. according to the information provided by the irish authorities, the closure of ltai is a direct consequence of a major change in eu trade in goods and services, resulting from a technological migration towards the production of new generation aircraft and components, from the shift to larger scale methods in their production, with consequent repercussions on the market fundamentals of the business model on which ltai was based, and finally from the geographical shift of world production. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed will be mainly directed at vocational guidance and career planning, training and updating programmes, higher education programmes, by means of payment of the costs of attending the courses concerned. we are therefore confident that these european incentives will be a valuable aid to the reintegration of these workers.
in writing. ‒ the report in question relates to the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for a total amount of eur 2 490 758 for ireland. the commission notes that the application concerns 149 redundancies in the period 1 march 2014 to 30 june 2014 at lufthansa technik airmotive ireland ltd (ltai) and two of its irish suppliers. in the light of the above, i have agreed to the negrescu report because i believe that workers, who are victims of the economic and financial crisis and of the market imbalances caused by the advance of globalisation, should have the full support of the european union. the amount allocated will help to provide them with new employment opportunities.
in writing. ‒ whereas the union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers who are affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows or the global economic and financial crisis, and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market; whereas ireland submitted an application egf/2014/016 ie/lufthansa technik for a financial contribution from the egf following a total of 424 redundancies at lufthansa technik airmotive ireland ltd (ltai) and two of its suppliers in ireland; that the application does not fulfil the eligibility criteria set out in article 4 (1) (a) of the egf regulation and is based on the exceptional circumstances provision set out in article 4 (2) of that regulation; agrees with the commission that the exceptional circumstances raised by the irish authorities, namely that redundancies have a serious impact on employment and the local and regional economy, justify a derogation from the intervention criteria under article 4 (2) of the egf regulation and that ireland is therefore entitled to a financial contribution under that regulation. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ ireland has asked the european union for help to overcome the economic crisis that has halted the activity of a company for which 149 redundancies have become a problem. i therefore voted in favour of this report to ensure that the european globalisation adjustment fund can help a european company.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to the tune of some eur 2.5 million for 424 redundancies at lufthansa technik airmotive ireland and two of its suppliers due to relocation to asia. the irish authorities indicate a decrease in total employment in the sector of around 52%.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the egf (european globalisation adjustment fund) in respect of the application for financial assistance submitted by ireland in respect of 424 redundancies in lufthansa technik airmotive ireland ltd (ltai) and two of its suppliers in ireland. i hope that the coordinated package of personalised services co-financed by the egf will contribute to the reintegration of these workers, who, owing to their very specific skills which are difficult to exploit in other sectors, risk encountering even greater difficulties in finding a new job.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of 450 workers made redundant by globalisation at the irish branch of lufthansa technik, a company active in the maintenance and repair of aircraft and components. lufthansa technik had to close the irish site when its business model proved to be no longer viable as a result of various factors, such as the choice of customers to turn to operators active in the production of new generation aircraft and components, the shift to larger scale methods in the production of aircraft components and finally the geographical shift of the world's aircraft production towards asia. with the recent closure of similar businesses in ireland, redundant workers in this sector are facing serious difficulties in relocating, as they have very specific skills that are difficult to exploit in other sectors. the eur 2 490 758 grant from the globalisation adjustment fund will help co-finance a package of personalised services, such as career guidance and planning, training and updating programmes, higher education programmes, support for business and self-employment creation and income support.
in writing. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund (gef) to support 450 redundant workers at the irish branch of lufthansa technik, an aircraft and component maintenance and repair company which is strongly threatened by international competition, especially from asia. the aid, amounting to some eur 2 500 000, will help co-finance a package of personalised services for vocational guidance and retraining, as well as support for business creation and self-employment. i believe that this is a fundamental instrument for giving hope for the future to workers with a strong sectoral specialization who are having great difficulty in being relocated to other sectors.
in writing. ‒ i was present in the chamber when the regner report was voted.
in writing. - i voted for the repeal. the content of the criminal proceedings in question coincides with the procedure under which the european parliament decided to waive the parliamentary immunity of mr uspaskich back in 2010; the mp was sentenced in the first instance to 4 years in prison for alleged irregularities in the financing of the party he chaired. the case is pending at the second instance and the ep is asked to give its opinion, also following new elements brought forward by the defendant which, according to the rapporteur, do not seem to change the substance of the decision already taken.
in writing. ‒ the charges against my colleague viktor uspaskich do not relate to an opinion expressed in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. however, during the committee's examination, serious doubts were raised as to his actual responsibility in the matter and as to a possible fumus persecutionis.
in writing. ‒ the text under discussion sets out the european parliament's reasons for requesting the waiver of the immunity of viktor uspaskich. on 15 september 2014, the president informed, in accordance with rule 9 (1), that he had received a letter from the prosecutor general of the republic of lithuania requesting the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr viktor uspaskich. the committee considered that the commission should be asked to take a decision to waive the immunity of mr uspaskich, considering that the charges clearly had nothing to do with his membership of the european parliament but were related to his position as party chairman. at the time, he was accused of organizing a criminal association to commit various crimes by operating illegally and evading the obligation to supervise the correctness of the financing of the party of which he was president. in fact, a sham accounting was used to conceal income and expenses. in general terms, he has repeatedly instructed the authorities not to register or declare officially several commercial and financial transactions. furthermore, there is no reason to suppose that a fumus persecutionis exists. for these reasons i thought i should vote in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the request to waive the immunity of viktor uspaskich. in my opinion, he should continue to enjoy immunity. as a guarantor, i will always vote against these revocation requests. parliamentary immunity is not a personal privilege of the member but a guarantee of the independence of parliament as an institution and of its members.
in writing. ‒ the vilnius district court has initiated a criminal case against viktor uspaskich, which is still ongoing. the latter is accused of committing certain offences punishable under the provisions of the lithuanian criminal code. although viktor uspaskich was acquitted of some of the charges, he was sentenced, with a sentence not yet final, to 4 years in a penal institution. i have decided to support the regner report, which calls for the waiver of mr uspaskich's immunity, as the charges against him are not connected with his parliamentary duties.
in writing. ‒ whereas the charges against mr uspaskich are not linked to opinions or votes expressed in the course of his term of office as a member of the european parliament and therefore article 8 of the protocol does not apply; that, in accordance with article 9 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members shall enjoy, for the duration of the sessions of the european parliament, the immunities accorded to members of their national parliament on their national territory; that immunity cannot be invoked in the case of flagrant misconduct and may not, moreover, prejudice the right of the european parliament to waive the immunity of one of its members; that according to article 62 of the constitution of the republic of lithuania a member of the national parliament (seimas) may not be subject to criminal proceedings, detention or other restrictions of liberty without the approval of the seimas; decides to waive the immunity of viktor uspaskich and instructs its president to forward this decision and the report of its competent committee to the competent authorities of the republic of lithuania without delay. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am against the prosecution of members for their opinions.
in writing. ‒ the court of justice of the european union has ruled that a statement made by a member of the european parliament outside the chambers of the european parliament may constitute an opinion expressed in the exercise of his parliamentary functions within the meaning of article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, taking account of the nature and content of the statement. however, the link between the opinion expressed by the member and parliamentary functions must be direct and must be clearly apparent. as the statements referred to were made by gabriele albertini in his capacity as mayor, i voted in favour of the report by mr andrzej duda.
in writing. ‒ the text under discussion sets out the european parliament's reasons for gabriele albertini's request for immunity to be upheld. the reason for this request can be found in the documentation: by summons dated 12 october 2012, gabriele albertini was summoned to appear before the brescia court by alfredo robledo in relation to the statements made by gabriele albertini in a first interview published by the newspaper il sole 24 ore on 26 october 2011 and in a second interview published by the newspaper corriere della sera on 19 february 2012. these statements offended the honour of the magistrate who was conducting the investigation at the time. the statements were made in his capacity as mayor of albertini, not as a member of the european parliament. furthermore, there is no reason to suppose that a fumus persecutionis exists. so the committee felt that it did not uphold the immunity of gabriele albertini. for these reasons i thought i should vote in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ i do not find the report on the failure to defend the immunity and privileges of gabriele albertini and to follow up his request for review of the civil proceedings against him favourable. i am convinced, as guarantor, that the existence of immunity serves a purpose of considerable importance; and that is why i shall always vote against such relations. this is an important premise which must remain the basis for similar cases. freedom of expression must be and remains protected to allow the proper exercise of the functions.
in writing. ‒ whereas a former member of the european parliament, gabriele albertini, has requested the defence of his parliamentary immunity in the context of a criminal case pending before an italian court; that gabriele albertini also requested a review of his request for immunity in civil proceedings pending before the same court; that the request for immunity concerns the alleged defamatory views expressed by gabriele albertini in a statement submitted to the italian minister for security on 22 october 2012 to ascertain whether the activities of alfredo robledo, the public prosecutor who had launched an investigation into events dating back to 2005 involving the city of milan and concerning the duties of mayor of that city exercised by gabriele albertini, were liable to be disciplined in terms of professional ethics; confirms that it will not defend the immunities and privileges of gabriele albertini and will not follow up on his request for a review of the civil proceedings against him; it is for the same reasons that it is decided not to defend the privileges and immunities of mr gabriele albertini in the criminal proceedings against him. for these reasons i have voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the landsbergis report which analyses macro-financial assistance to ukraine. this european union is generous and has a large budget to lend out eur 1.8 billion. it is a pity that when it comes to supporting our businesses which are closing down because of the crisis, to helping our citizens without a job, to supporting italy in the immigration emergency or in the fight against terrorism, europe disappears.
in writing. ‒ i voted against, since i maintain that we should not be so hasty in allowing this assistance to ukraine. personally i consider that ukraine needs all our help and support considering the complicated situation in the country, but i think the country should first show the commitment to make important and necessary reforms in order to get financial help from other countries.
in writing. - i voted against it. i am strongly opposed to a measure which allocates the exorbitant sum of eur 1.8 billion to ukraine in the form of loans. there are virtually no guarantees that kiev can provide about the return of the sum, respect for human rights and how the sum will be spent.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the european parliament's proposal for a decision on the granting of macrofinancial assistance to ukraine. the continuing armed conflict in eastern ukraine and severe trade restrictions by russia have further exacerbated the severe economic recession and capital flight that are bringing the country to its knees. the european commission's proposal to provide an additional eur 1.8 billion in macrofinancial assistance to ukraine is therefore to be welcomed. in addition, in view of the extremely difficult situation in which the country is currently found, i believe it is absolutely important that the proposal be approved in good time in order to allow the disbursement of at least two of the three tranches already in 2015. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is based on the principle of the free movement of goods.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the intervention and aid instrument identified is not the best one to solve ukraine's problems. the country's high debt burden stems from the bloody civil war and the union's intervention, as it was designed, would in fact lead to the imposition of austerity measures on the population.
in writing. ‒ the measure in question provides for macro-financial assistance (mfa) to the state of ukraine. this support is an exceptional eu crisis response mechanism offered to the union's partner countries facing serious balance of payments problems. the commission's request for an additional €1.8 billion has prompted the development of a major assistance plan for the country. however, it should be remembered that the state of ukraine is going through a very difficult period due to the continuing armed conflict in the eastern regions. the measure is important and noble and for all the reasons given in the document i thought i should vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of macrofinancial assistance to ukraine because it is part of a series of measures to deal with a deep economic recession in the country, aggravated by the armed conflict in the south-east of the country. i share this kind of exceptional crisis response assistance because it is being offered to help the union's partner countries to deal with serious balance of payments problems. moreover, in view of the extremely difficult situation in which ukraine is currently found, i believe that the commission's proposal for macro-financial assistance to ukraine should be approved in a timely manner, so that two of the three tranches (eur 600 million each) can be disbursed in 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission's proposed €1.8 billion macro-financial assistance to reduce balance of payments imbalances and support reform programmes in many strategic sectors for ukraine. the situation of deep political and economic crisis in the country, which forces the population to live in a climate of uncertainty and discomfort, cannot be ignored by the european union. in view of recent geopolitical developments and an economic recession that has exceeded the already negative forecasts, it is considered appropriate to provide this new tranche of state aid to ukraine. the money granted, in the form of a medium-term loan, will partly finance the economic programme drawn up by the international monetary fund, a guarantee of reliability and fairness. the hope is that the eu's funding will help to bring relief to the ukrainian people and to improve the lot of a neighbouring state with which the eu has long enjoyed a friendly relationship and trade.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the macro-financial assistance plan for ukraine because i do not agree with it and because i think it is not the appropriate instrument to solve the problems facing the country. ukraine is torn by debts caused by the civil war. the war will continue until the eu understands that a substantial part of the ukrainian people has no intention of accepting either the eu or its political, economic and social model. the eu wants to impose austerity on ukraine in practice. this approach is contrary to the real interests of the ukrainian people.
in writing. ‒ today's vote confirms what this parliament has already supported on several occasions, namely the need to support ukraine in different ways and in different ways in its process of democratic stabilisation and economic reforms. the granting of financial support in this sense must be combined with the development and implementation of a major medium-term plan, which defines the milestones and objectives to be achieved. the country's shortcomings and poverty are enormously outweighed by its potential and wealth, and the only plausible explanation is the absence of structural reforms. the european union's support must therefore be directed in this direction, while at the same time bearing in mind the difficulties facing the economy and political institutions as a result of the precarious situation created by russian aggression in the east. as well emphasised, the union and the member states should make a strong commitment, beyond financial assistance, to contribute in all possible ways to inclusive and sustainable growth and development for all. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the resources allocated to the programme are not wasted or misused.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting macrofinancial assistance to ukraine. this speech reaffirms the longstanding commitment of the european parliament and the european union to the reform process that this young democracy is undertaking. the ukrainian economy is currently in a deep recession due to macroeconomic imbalances and long-standing structural problems, aggravated by the armed conflict in the east of the country. in recent months, the union has on several occasions expressed its commitment to assist the new ukrainian authorities in their efforts to stabilise the country and to continue on the path of reform. the european parliament, the council and the commission have adopted a number of proposals to improve the quality of the financial instruments available to the member states.
in writing. ‒ macro-financial assistance (mfa) is an exceptional eu crisis response mechanism offered to eu partner countries facing serious balance of payments problems. i voted in favour of a further additional package of amf for ukraine, because it will contribute to the european union's objectives of promoting economic stability and development in the ukrainian state. the new programme will also reinforce the economic reform commitments made by the ukrainian government and signal the eu's readiness to support all those countries undertaking major reforms in times of great economic and political difficulty.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against a measure allocating the sum of eur 1.8 billion to ukraine in the form of loans without any guarantee that ukraine, given the economic and political and social situation, will be able to repay the loan. but beyond that, the eu's blind vision of hostility towards russia over the ukrainian issue is to be condemned.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, in plenary session, approved today new financial assistance to ukraine amounting to eur 1.8 billion in medium-term financing. this contribution will be conditional on ukraine implementing certain reforms in areas such as energy, the judiciary, the fight against corruption and the protection of human rights. i voted in favour of this financial assistance, provided, however, that the ukrainian authorities undertake to honour the commitments they have made. to ensure that these promises are translated into concrete actions for the benefit of the people concerned, i will monitor the implementation of reforms and the use of funds on a regular basis by means of questions to the european commission. if the agreements are not respected, i am prepared to reassess these measures.
in writing. the european parliament reiterates its solidarity and its closeness to the ukrainian people. the tension and military escalation in the provinces bordering russia have reached unprecedented proportions, but the extremely acute and serious economic conditions throughout the country are no less worrying. in addition to longstanding structural problems, the situation is now exacerbated by the armed conflict in the eastern regions and russia's illegal annexation of crimea. the commission's proposed macro-financial assistance will receive the full support of the european parliament. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. i hope that it will be the prerequisite for an even more extensive cooperation programme in support of the ukrainian people and society.
in writing. ‒ the ukrainian people have faced enormous suffering and have the right to enjoy the chance to redeem themselves from years of political and economic adversity. i fully agree with mr landsbergis' report on a proposal by the european parliament and the council to provide macro-financial assistance to ukraine. the internal crisis in the country has been exacerbated by the ongoing armed conflict in the eastern regions, the recent annexation of crimea by russia and, above all, the escalation of tension between the two countries over natural gas supplies. the european parliament has always expressed its support for assisting ukraine, which as an associated partner of the european union is entitled to fully benefit from a major structural reform programme and financial assistance from the european union. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal to increase macrofinancial assistance to ukraine by some 1.8 billion in order to facilitate and support the country's reform process and to accompany it towards the achievement of its economic objectives. macro-financial assistance in this sense is a particularly effective mechanism that can help to restore confidence not only in the efforts of the ukrainian authorities but above all in the population that is suffering most from the effects of this tragic situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the exceptional nature of the crisis in ukraine requires us to respond immediately and to take action that can no longer be delayed. the two tranches of €600 million each that ukraine will receive from europe in 2015 will allow it to make the structural reforms necessary to get the country's economy back on track. it is right that political and diplomatic commitments and efforts should be followed by concrete initiatives of economic assistance.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the european parliament's proposal for a decision on the granting of macrofinancial assistance to ukraine. macro-financial assistance (mfa) is an exceptional eu instrument offered to the union's partner countries facing serious balance of payments imbalance problems. the mfa will also serve as a signal that the eu stands ready to support countries undertaking reforms in times of economic and political difficulty. that is why i supported the measure.
in writing. ‒ the ukrainian economy is experiencing an acute crisis phase, attributable to structural problems, and exacerbated by the armed conflict in the eastern regions. the european union should contribute to supporting the financial stability of the country, with the aim of strengthening the most vulnerable sectors of the national economy. i therefore voted in favour of the landsbergis report, which proposes to grant macrofinancial assistance to ukraine through an accelerated procedure, without amendments.
in writing. ‒ we believe that we cannot vote in favour of measures which support a position in an unclear situation. the people must be given a say in ukraine and europe should act as an external guarantor of the democratic process. only after the ukrainian people have legitimately elected a government can political assessments be made.
in writing. ‒ ukraine is going through a deep political and economic crisis, exacerbated by the armed conflict in the eastern regions and russia's annexation of crimea. the country has benefited from both imf and eu financial assistance programmes, but unfortunately the results have been disappointing and a further need for external financing has emerged. as the ep, we have repeatedly expressed our support for the provision of assistance to ukraine, the eu's associated partner, in its stabilisation and structural reform process. we therefore agree with the commission's proposal as we believe that, in the light of the extremely difficult situation in which the country is currently found, it is essential to approve additional macro-financial assistance in a timely manner, allowing for the disbursement of two of the three tranches of aid during 2015. the european union cannot stand by and watch; it must be able to act quickly, decisively and in proportion to its political commitments. we are confident that, thanks to the conditionality clause, this additional aid will contribute to strengthening the economic reform commitments of the ukrainian government. it will also serve to signal the eu's readiness to support countries undertaking reforms in times of economic and political difficulty, and to highlight the credibility of its interventions.
in writing. ‒ the report examines the commission's proposal to launch macrofinancial assistance to ukraine for around eur 1.8 billion in medium-term loans. the aid is part of a series of operations to deal with a deep economic recession in ukraine, aggravated by the armed conflict in the south-east of the country. in particular, macro-financial assistance shall aim at reducing short-term balance of payments imbalances, while supporting reform programmes through restructuring measures in many strategic sectors for the country. the assistance will be distributed in three tranches of 600 million each, the first of which will start as early as 2015. in the light of the above, i have decided to vote in favour of the report because i believe that the proposed additional mfa will help to mobilise a new package of international aid to ukraine, either directly, through the proposed amount of eur 1.8 billion, or indirectly, by mobilising contributions from other partners. it should also act as a catalyst for a gradual recovery of confidence and support reform efforts in the country.
in writing. ‒ the ukrainian economy is experiencing an acute and severe crisis, rooted in long-standing structural problems and exacerbated by the armed conflict in the eastern regions and russia's illegal annexation of crimea. the ambitious macroeconomic adjustment and structural reform plan of the new government, which took office in february 2014, was supported by an imf financial assistance programme and two eu macro-financial assistance (mfa) operations. parliament has repeatedly expressed its support for assistance to ukraine, the eu's associated partner, in its process of economic and political stabilisation and reform. in its most recent resolution on the situation in ukraine of 15 january 2015, the european parliament welcomed the commission's proposal to provide an additional eur 1,8 billion in macro-financial assistance to ukraine and called for the development of a major assistance plan for the country. in view of the above, the rapporteur proposes that parliament approve the commission proposal without amendments. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. i have decided to vote against a measure allocating eur 1.8 billion in the form of loans to ukraine. this is the largest economic assistance ever given by the european institutions to a non-eu country and the third in a short period of time to ukraine itself. furthermore, there are no guarantees that kiev can provide about: the return of the sum, respect for human rights, the way in which the huge sum will be used. finally, this type of measure, together with the trade preferences already granted to ukraine, moldova and georgia, is nothing but a further and serious interference in an economic area which is historically under russian influence and which does not represent a great commercial interest for our productive realities.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of allocating €1.8 billion in macro-financial assistance to ukraine to help the country close its balance of payments deficit. ukraine is affected by an economic crisis due to long-standing structural problems, now exacerbated by the armed conflict in the eastern part of the country, which is impeding the implementation of macroeconomic adjustment as well as the necessary structural reforms. the internal conflict, russian trade restrictions and the intensification of the natural gas dispute have led to capital flight and a consequent depreciation of the currency, which makes it necessary to resort to external financing to implement structural, political and economic reforms to overcome the crisis. i believe that it is our duty as the european union to help a country which has on more than one occasion shown its willingness to 'get closer' to the union. i therefore believe that it is necessary, in accordance with the principles of solidarity on which our community is founded, to provide ukraine with the financial instruments to overcome its crisis and to implement the reform programme agreed in the future memorandum of understanding to remedy the fundamental weaknesses which, in their accumulation, have led to the current deficit.
in writing. ‒ i voted no to the macro-financial assistance plan for ukraine: it is a neo-colonial tool, a slap in the face to the european countries impoverished by austerity. ukraine is a bottomless pit of debt due to the civil war that broke out because the country was torn apart by the decision to sign the association agreement with the eu. as long as the war lasts, ukraine will not recover and will not be able to repay its debts. the war will continue until the eu understands that a substantial part of the ukrainian people has no intention of accepting either the eu or its political, economic and social model. the international monetary fund has made the granting of the loan to ukraine conditional on compliance with the ceasefire. the eu makes macro-financial assistance conditional on reforms: the eu's main objective is to give ukraine a market economy through such instruments as tripling the price of gas and cutting pensions to an already starving population. it is the imposition of austerity. it is against the real interests of the ukrainian people: and many ukrainians have noticed. while giving 1.8 billion to ukraine, the eu is making greece sigh at 1.2 billion because it no longer wants to accept austerity. the eu is lending money to sow austerity. his money is the kiss of death.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the macro-financial assistance strategy for ukraine because i believe that it is europe's task to protect states when it has the opportunity to do so and when this opportunity can help the process of peace and stability in a territory. we are living in a time of great political uncertainty and it is our duty to do everything possible to avoid precipitating certain very delicate situations.
in writing. ‒ i did not vote for the kaili report on taxation. although the text contains some acceptable references, i cannot support a report which returns to unacceptable positions, such as the demand for new own resources to finance the union's policies and the desire to centralize even more the financial control of the individual states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of parliament's position on the annual report on taxation. the fight against fraud, tax evasion, tax avoidance and tax havens through effective and simplified legislation in the member states and compliance with community rules is a major priority of the european parliament in order to enhance the benefits of the internal market. a joint effort is therefore needed to define practices distorting competition and a common eu position on sanctions applicable to states that distort competition through particularly favourable tax conditions. i very much appreciated the emphasis in the report on the importance of ensuring that smes have the opportunity to compete on equal terms. in order to ensure a fairer and simpler tax system, the identification of unfair practices and the monitoring of community rules on tax policy must be strengthened by the commission. however, taxation decisions are and remain a national prerogative: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the taxation of personal data.
in writing. – i voted in favour because i maintain that tax fraud and tax evasion strongly ruin our economy. i think that the differences between the taxation systems of the different member states entail the creation of tax dumping which gives the possibility to the companies to choose where is best for them to pay taxes. this clearly forms an obstacle to the strengthening and the growth of our common market. therefore i consider important the adoption of a common tax policy in europe.
in writing. - i voted against it. how can a tax measure be credible if it is taken by a commission headed by a person who has been for years the head of a member state which has raised many concerns among the other eu partners on the subject of tax evasion?
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the annual report on taxation, as i am pleased to note the growing awareness, as reflected in the report, of the need for a comprehensive strategy on international tax policies and note that it is interpreted as being inseparable from coordinated action at eu level, taking into account the need to enhance the benefits of the internal market and to apply relentless and unrelenting pressure on tax fraud and tax evasion. i also welcome the efforts made to abolish banking secrecy and to promote the competitiveness of the european banking sector, in order to avoid tax evasion outside the eu. i am convinced that legal certainty and increased crossborder trade are to be exploited to promote the potential of the single market, just as it is strategic in the long term to increase public revenue also through a renewed confidence in the tax system. we must give a voice to the honest taxpayer who rightly insists on the general principle of fair taxation and on the responsibility, in terms of public services, growth and employment, of what he is asked to pay.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes a comprehensive approach to fiscal policy, which can be a pragmatic tool for promoting growth and jobs, and for moving towards a better eu. three main priority areas have been identified. the first calls for joint action to reduce the administrative burden on businesses and tax authorities and to eliminate artificial barriers and divergences between national laws. secondly, it stresses the importance of identifying a common strategy to put an end to the crime of tax evasion, to combat tax fraud and tax evasion and to combat tax havens. finally, coordination of fiscal policies in different countries is one of the important instruments for stimulating growth, employment and investment in the medium and long term.
in writing. ‒ the measure under discussion analyses the overall fiscal policy with the aim of promoting proactive taxation and economic and monetary growth in europe. it focuses on three important factors: reduce the legislative differences between member states, reduce the administrative burden on businesses and seek to reduce or better put an end to the crime of global tax evasion. the aspect which i found interesting in the text of the measure is the automatic exchange of banking information between the member states. for all these reasons i thought i should vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it proposes a comprehensive approach to fiscal policy, which can be a pragmatic tool for promoting growth and promoting economic and monetary union. i particularly appreciated three important aspects of the report: the commission has already taken steps to reduce the administrative burden on businesses, to eliminate artificial barriers and divergences between national laws, and to coordinate not only at european level but also at global level to put an end to the crime of tax evasion. finally, i welcome the agreement on the automatic exchange of banking information between the member states and the prospects for its rapid implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual report on taxation because i believe that the development of good governance in tax matters can lead to a better functioning of the common market. the european union should step up the fight against tax evasion and avoidance, which threaten fair competition and cause a substantial loss of revenue. i support a comprehensive approach to tax policy aimed at promoting tax initiatives that are favourable to businesses and investors. tax cooperation stimulates sustainable, smart and inclusive growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i share the content of the annual report on taxation in the eu, especially as regards parliament's commitment to combating tax evasion and avoidance and tax havens, and the need for greater equity in taxation at european level.
in writing. ‒ this is a good report and deserves our support and praise. the lack of revenue from tax fraud and evasion - estimated at €1 billion at european level - would in itself make a major reform urgent, which should be included in the dialogue and discussions of the high level group on own resources, together with the introduction of a financial transaction tax. at the level of the member states, we too often see complacent attitudes on the part of governments, which conclude secret tax-exemption agreements with multinational companies in order to attract their capital, but which in so doing introduce perverse mechanisms of unfair tax competition within the union, to the detriment of all citizens. in addition to ensuring an increase in revenue - which could lead to further investment for growth - the union and its member states must work towards creating a comprehensive system of tax and tax certainty as a prerequisite for real growth for smes, which, unlike large multinationals, are unable to benefit from the 'illegal' benefits of moving their tax offices to 'paradises'.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the annual report on taxation. the resolution sends a clear message on behalf of the european parliament: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european taxation system. the current heterogeneity of member states' tax regimes and approaches, as clearly demonstrated by the recent luxleaks affair, is a dangerous obstacle to the completion of the single market in the eu and to full economic integration, and also favours phenomena of blatant distortion of competition, generating genuine 'tax dumping' within the union. we see positive signs of increased fiscal coordination, such as the recent agreement on the automatic exchange of information and progress on the final abolition of banking secrecy in the eu. however, much remains to be done, particularly in relation to the establishment of an effective system of eu own resources and the fight against tax fraud, evasion and avoidance, with the ultimate aim of a genuine european tax union closely linked to the european governance framework of the economy and the european single market.
in writing. ‒ eur 1 trillion is the estimate of the potential revenue lost to fraud and tax evasion each year in the european union. this is a very serious problem for every european citizen: the reduction in tax revenue has the effect of reducing public money available for investment, which is the main reason why we are not able to get out of the economic and financial crisis that is gripping our countries. in addition, these practices increase the tax burden for all other citizens and businesses who are acting within the rules. for all these reasons, i voted with full conviction for parliament's proposal for a report on taxation, which also tackles the perplexing problem of those companies, often multinational, which structure their tax position in such a way as to shift profits to low-tax jurisdictions. therefore, our objective is clear. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection. building a path of good governance is the only way to achieve both sustainable growth and fiscal justice. finally, these policies will also allow us to reduce economic inequality, which is at the heart of our political battles in this hemisphere.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i am convinced that, while fully respecting the competences of each member state, this report can propose a global approach to tax policy. this can be a very good instrument for encouraging growth and promoting european monetary union.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the econ committee's own-initiative report which supports and supports the call on the member states to follow closely the ec's recommendations on economic and fiscal matters.
in writing. every year in the eu, €1 trillion of potential revenue is lost to tax fraud and tax evasion. this phenomenon not only entails a serious loss for the public purse, but also and above all an increase in the tax burden for all citizens and companies acting in good faith. the european economy is in desperate need of investment. tax avoidance robs a large share of public money available to stimulate private investment at a crucial time to revive resources for jobs and growth. i therefore voted with conviction for mrs kaili's report, which first of all emphasizes the important agreement reached on the automatic exchange of information between european governments. i find particularly significant the passage in which the european parliament calls for the final abolition of banking secrecy within the eu as of june 2015: it is for this reason, as the report we adopted states, that we are concerned about the secret agreements concluded by certain member states and certain multinational companies to grant tax exemptions to attract firms, thus undermining the tax systems of other member states and the proper functioning of free competition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual report on taxation because i believe that it is absolutely necessary to have a comprehensive approach to tax policy that is primarily aimed at promoting economic growth in the medium to long term. it is important to work towards harmonizing tax systems, which translates especially into tax simplification for businesses. the fight against tax evasion must also be a priority, because tax evasion, tax avoidance and the practice of tax havens are a hateful example of social injustice at a time when the crisis is imposing great sacrifices on european citizens and we can no longer allow this.
in writing. ‒ the harmonisation of european tax systems is one of the objectives of the new parliament. although the management of tax regimes within the economic and monetary union itself is a matter for the individual member states, it risks creating imbalances in the markets, making member states with favourable tax systems more attractive to investment than others. that is why we must work towards common tax guidelines that will stimulate growth, employment and investment in all member states. the report by mrs kaili is a first step towards a comprehensive approach to tax policy.
in writing. ‒ around €1 trillion of potential revenue is lost each year within the eu as a result of the spread of fraud and tax evasion. this loss of efficiency and fairness in european tax systems means an increase in the tax burden for all citizens and all companies acting in good faith. equally important, the loss of this tax revenue reduces the share of public money available for investment, and consequently limits the number of private investments. the kaili report stresses that the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance can only lead to tangible results if a common approach is adopted. i share the message of this document and have decided to support it by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ we vote in favour of this resolution, in particular on the proposed permanent abolition of banking secrecy. this important progress is crucial in the crackdown on money laundering and fraud against both individuals and the public.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this report which, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity, which allows member states to develop country-specific policies, proposes a comprehensive approach to fiscal policy as a key tool for promoting growth and completing monetary union. we believe that it is essential to support a policy of reducing the administrative burden on businesses, which will thus be able to eliminate artificial barriers and the differences between the various national laws. our main objective should always be to ensure greater legal certainty, to increase crossborder trade, to promote the full potential of the single market and thus to stimulate growth and employment. we believe that coordinated and comprehensive action is needed, both at union and international level, to put an end to the crime of tax evasion: the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, the fight against aggressive tax planning and, of course, tax havens will continue to be one of our priorities. this could also provide a viable alternative to the introduction of new levels or forms of taxation and would provide much-needed additional funds to stimulate public investment, growth and employment.
in writing. ‒ the annual report sets out the path forward for fiscal policy in order to promote growth and deepen economic and monetary union. the report identifies three priority areas where action is needed. first, action is needed to reduce the administrative burden on businesses and tax authorities and to eliminate artificial barriers and divergences between national laws. secondly, immediate, coordinated and comprehensive action is essential, both at union and international level, to put an end to the crime of tax evasion, to combat fraud and tax evasion. last but not least, fiscal coordination through well-defined structural reforms in the context of the european semester is considered a key tool for the definition of fiscal policies that stimulate growth, employment and investment in the medium and long term. in the light of the above, i have decided to support the report in a positive way, as a balanced and development-oriented tax system is essential to generate sustainable growth. moreover, better results can only be achieved if a common approach is adopted.
in writing. ‒ whereas it is estimated that €1 trillion of potential revenue is lost to tax fraud and tax evasion in the eu each year; that such a loss poses a serious risk to the effectiveness and fairness of the eu tax systems, as it increases the tax burden for all citizens and companies acting in good faith; that the loss of such tax revenue means that less public money is available for investment and, consequently, less opportunity to stimulate private investment, at a time when the commission's stated focus is on jobs, growth and investment; welcomes the agreement on the automatic exchange of information and the prospects for its rapid implementation; calls in this regard for the final abolition of banking secrecy within the eu as of june 2015; in addition, the commission is invited to open negotiations with other third countries, including but not limited to singapore, on the taxation of the financial services sector. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ fighting tax evasion, tax avoidance, aggressive planning and tax havens are essential to stimulating growth and jobs in our internal market. i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for the achievement of a comprehensive and uniform tax policy, eliminating the differences in national legislation and allowing for a reduction and simplification of the tax obstacles which hamper the cross-border activities of private individuals. the resolution also seeks to abolish banking secrecy by requiring companies with cross-border impact to provide country-by-country tax information, no longer voluntarily but compulsorily, which will be recorded in a central archive and available to all citizens for inspection, ensuring transparency and fairness in tax practices. we also call for a blacklist to be drawn up by 2015 of tax havens and member states whose tax policies undermine intra-eu competition, as a clear sign of the will to change the current tax system, which is harmful to our finances.
in writing. ‒ i believe that taxation, if used correctly, can be a driver for growth and economic recovery. europe can add value not by imposing additional burdens on businesses but by coordinating the fight against fraud, tax evasion and avoidance. while it is true that taxation is the responsibility of the member states, which also decide on social policies, we must prevent many companies from taking advantage of the lack of transparency in european systems to avoid paying taxes where they generate profits and where they use public services, the burden of which falls unfairly on taxpayers.
in writing. i decided to vote against because, although the text contains some acceptable references, there is a total lack of confidence in a european commission headed by the man who for decades was the head of a member state which has raised many concerns among the other partners of the union on the issue of tax evasion. the most serious criticisms of the text, however, are the references to: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (efp) is a step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the annual report on taxation. each year in the european union, around €1 trillion of potential revenue is lost to tax fraud and tax evasion, in particular through tax dumping. the use of such practices is one of the most serious problems in european taxation. the commission has recently published a report on the investigation of a well-known multinational company, which is accused of evading almost one billion euros in italian taxes. this is just the latest in a long list of cases of opaque tax transactions: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the taxation of companies is not distorted. the gravity of such operations is also even more pronounced within the eu, where capital generally moves from the neediest countries to the most prosperous, as in the case of portugal. for these reasons, i am convinced that european harmonization in the field of business taxation is absolutely necessary in order to prevent the continuation of operations which, if not illegal, are in any case harmful to the union as a whole.
in writing. the european parliament presents an annual own-initiative report on european taxation. as usual, the european parliament stressed the need for a european-wide effort to combat tax evasion, tax avoidance and tax havens. but unlike in previous years, the report condemns aggressive planning practices, calls for the introduction of mandatory exchange between states on cross-border tax agreements and calls for the introduction of regulation to tackle the problem of base erosion and profit shifting at european level. the text included many of the m5s's demands, such as country by country reporting for multinational companies, greater transparency in information exchange and the establishment of a common consolidated corporate tax base. of particular importance to m5s was the request, which was accepted, to shift the tax burden from labour and consumption to the financial sector. for these reasons we voted in favour of the report. however, as it is only an initiative, the text sends an important message but does not bring any change to the status quo. in the light of the recent scandals in luxembourg, it is of the utmost importance that the problem of lack of transparency and aggressive tax practices be solved at european level by means of serious and stringent measures which do not allow for unfair competition between member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of measures to combat tax evasion because i believe it is a priority for europe to combat a scourge that is not only economic, not only social, but also a cultural scourge. our political action must be able to trigger a process of redistribution and equality. and this can be achieved by a fair and comprehensive fight against tax evasion. the construction of political europe also involves this kind of struggle, so that the common good is truly conceived as the good of all and the burden of all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as co-chairman of the efdd group i would like to inform those who do not know that this member is currently suspended from the group, so she has no voting rights and cannot work in the group at the moment until the police inspection is completed. finally, decisions will be taken on the basis of the result as if it were an internal statute of the group.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we can certainly remedy today a situation which has been handled in a superficial and quasi-political manner, and we must in fact return more than a third of the funds allocated to these programmes, because there were delays in their adoption in 2014. i must say that europe is not immune to phenomena which i considered to be exemplary, in a negative sense, in relation to the italian situation, where delays and drastic adjustments are the order of the day. in spite of this, we are of course in favour of flexible use of the multiannual financial framework and this should apply to a wide range of situations. we are approaching a first review of the financial perspective and i believe that the priority of the union should certainly be revised to concentrate the available resources where they can really create development, growth, employment and equity. in any case, i hope that the funds we are bringing back today will finally be used constructively and not thrown away as has happened too often, even recently in italy, especially in the regions which would need them most.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we are discussing a delay in the public institutions, both community, national and regional, which is likely to mark the future of programming, especially as regards the structural funds and cohesion policy. and so we will have an effect on the good quality of spending, in addition to the classic and old problems that overlap in budgetary policies between commitments and payments. that is why it is important that after this vote we work together with the commission to speed up on three issues: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thirdly, the commission must be more active, more capable of taking initiative, and must be seen as an active partner, especially in its relations with the national and regional authorities, also in view of any legislative changes that may be made in the middle of the mandate to better support the programming and use of resources.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting today for a technical adjustment which, however, is the result of some very specific political choices. if the council had been less obstinate in the negotiations than this parliament was at the end of the last parliamentary term, we might have been able to adopt the multiannual financial framework on time. perhaps more programmes would have been launched and put into practice, and we would not be standing today with 21 billion euros allocated but not spent. the commission's proposal to move the amount from 2014 to 2015 is therefore right and sensible, but unfortunately simple common sense is no longer enough. we cannot continue to put pieces into a tool that is clearly unsuitable for the role it is supposed to play: the multiannual financial framework should be the foundation on which all european policies are built. you see, in italy, a few days ago, a bridge pylon fell and minister delrio wisely said that the pylon would not be replaced but that the whole bridge would be rebuilt, to make it safer and to make it more suitable. i would remind both the commission and the council in particular that at the end of the last parliamentary term a post-election review of the multiannual financial framework was promised and that this review should be carried out very quickly and it should be a thorough, very thorough review, probably taking the example of italian minister delrio.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the draft council regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 should be welcomed and approved by this parliament. we are talking about a fundamental step towards completing the process of launching the new programming period for cohesion policy, which would avoid any negative impact on the regions, the cities and therefore on the european citizens. the european structural investment funds are the most important investment policy of the union and it is therefore essential that all resources are used in a timely and effective manner to generate growth and employment, objectives which we have an obligation to keep high on the european union's agenda. the revision of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 should therefore be carried out by ensuring that programmes adopted later than planned are implemented. the new programming period has already suffered too many and significant delays and further disengagements must be avoided. i would also like to stress the need for the commission to cooperate more closely with the member states and regions, by encouraging better quality projects and simplification of procedures, with the aim of achieving a full and effective use of all resources.
vice-president of the commission.– mr president, many thanks to all those who have taken the floor to speak in support of a positive vote later on in this chamber. let me just make four points in response to comments and also to the questions addressed directly to the commission. first, the impact on payments. our view is that it will be manageable, based on past payment profiles, but most importantly on the fact that, in dealing with the payment crisis we have had, together with member states we have done a very good job on obtaining better projections for payment schedules so we can structure payments in a more prudent and predictable manner. there was a question on whether there is a risk that countries will not be able to use the money. the n+3 rule applies and that means that once commitments are made there is time to execute the programmes that are approved. in fact the time is basically three years more than we have in the mff, so this should be possible with programmes being approved this year. for some, approval will come early next year. all the funds committed are to be used. i want to stress again that we have drawn very important lessons from the payment crunch in terms of how we can better manage the relationship between commitments and payments in our budget. let us remember that we are no longer in the days of plenty. we have to learn to live with tighter budgets; focusing on the quality of spending and not just on the spending itself form part of this learning. my second point is on simplification. i heard loud and clear those of you who said that we need to have simpler rules so that programmes can be implemented and the level of errors can be reduced. i could not agree more with this. in the commission this is a very high priority for us. we call also on parliament to work with us, please, and not to add new control rules when they may not be necessary, when they do not add much value. but this applies also to member states. member states sometimes gold-plate rules and, even if we come with something that is simpler, bells and whistles are added and it is no longer simpler. so we all have to work systematically on implementation. my third point concerns the value for money. is this something that should be supported? there were voices saying let us just give the money back to member states. i want to speak using the language of facts. cohesion money is there to benefit the countries that are on the receiving end but also the european union economy as a whole. analysis of the use of cohesion funds from the previous period demonstrates a very tangible impact on growth rates in cohesion countries: for latvia, 2.1 % higher growth, for lithuania 1.8 %, and for poland 1.7 %. these figures represent additional jobs but also purchasing power for goods and services from other countries. one more fact: there is a very interesting report on the european union, called golden growth, which says that we have invented the most powerful convergence machine in the world, one that has allowed european union countries to accelerate their transition from middle-income to high-income status in the most impressive way that has ever happened. over recent decades some two dozen countries have made this most difficult jump from middle to high income. half of them are members of the european union and the other half countries that have discovered oil or have used very aggressive competitive practices, sometimes without too much democracy attached. so we are the place where we are able to grow without compromising on democracy, human rights or social inclusion, and without discovering oil. that may be something we would have liked but, frankly, in terms of climate change, it is better not. my last point is on the mid-term revision. i have heard the points you made, which are very valid ones. we will certainly analyse very closely whether the mff still adequately reflects priorities and we will propose adjustments if necessary. if these priorities require revision, we will of course come up with a proposal for revision. i want to stress that we would make full use of the new flexibility instrument for new priorities and the global margin for commitments. we would, of course, work broadly with parliament – i see committee chair mr arthuis here with the committee on budgets – in order to make best use of our taxpayers’ money for the betterment of our economy and our people.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 6.30 p.m. today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. we are discussing a technical review which is needed in the face of significant delays in the approval of operational programmes for the use of european funds. in 2014, more than 300 programmes, 47% of the total, were not adopted. this is a situation which affects all the member states and which, without the approval of this revision, would result in a loss of 21 billion. with the investment deficit we know, such a delay in the use of the structural funds is unacceptable. the rules provide for the possibility of transferring these appropriations from 2014 to 2015, and we can only express ourselves positively in this respect. what we are doing is positive flexibility, but it does not solve a structural problem. the financing of structural and cohesion policies must be simplified and made more accessible. there is widespread recognition of the need for a revision which is not merely technical but which is political and also covers the multiannual financial framework. the attitude towards the european budget must change. the economic crisis requires our budget to play an active role in supporting development. this is one of the steps we must take in this new legislature if we want the eu to be the true architect of a new course based on growth and opportunities for citizens.
the agenda includes the statement by the council and the commission on the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide (2015/2590 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, genocide was not even a word a hundred years ago! it was only coined by raphael lemkin in 1944. that is why the armenian people carved in the words of metz yeghern, "great evil" the pain of their tragedy. it doesn 't matter if there were 800,000 or more than a million victims; it doesn't matter if more people died from cold, hunger and disease than from torture, rape and murder. the point is that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. because what could be more hateful and intolerable than persecuting another just because he is different from himself? this, ladies and gentlemen, is the greatest horror of genocide, of all genocides. but we are not here today to pass judgment, this resolution is not an act of condemnation, it is a fitting tribute to memory and a humble invitation to reconciliation with others and with oneself. accepting the mistakes of the past is a great relief for a people. we know this well, because we have not been able to prevent either the mistakes of the dictatorship or those of colonialism. you know my father, who was stained with both. it is precisely these wounds that make us true and sincere friends of armenia and turkey. that is why we are asking them to ratify the zurich protocols. the word 'hate' and 'revenge' can no longer be used together, not even in the past. the future is one of reconciliation, cooperation and peaceful coexistence. to know to recognize and be aware. primo levi wrote that the holocaust is a page in the book of humanity from which we should never remove the bookmark of memory. we ask the armenians, the turks, all the peoples of the world to mark this page and never take it off again.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, elie wiesel, nobel peace prize winner, says that the first act of genocide is the demonization of a people, the last is its denial. well, then i invite you to divide one and a half million human beings for 365 days. days during which their massacre was perpetrated. 4,100 men, women and children slaughtered every day in a way that is hard to imagine just because they are armenians, this is genocide. and no one in this assembly can afford to deny it. history says so, the ottoman court that condemned the perpetrators of the genocide says so, turkish historians say so, not least taner akçam who said that only the known archives would suffice to define that crime as genocide. so i'll tell you about armenia: turkish politics can call me a liar! but remember, history is written by the same people who hanged the heroes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution is not intended to give a historical interpretation of the armenian genocide, but to emphasize a political interpretation: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. this is the problem today, of a regional power that is struggling to contain its ambitions in this context. now the theme is that reconciliation with one's past is crucial to closing wounds and looking to the future and one should absolutely not be afraid of words. turkey is an important and strategic player in the region, but it is above all up to turkey at this moment to open a new democratic phase in its history.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, erdogan's violent and unbalanced reaction to the words of pope francis is a clear demonstration of how different this turkey is from us, from our values, from the principles of the peoples on which the peoples of europe are founded. you have to have the courage to call things by their name: erdogan is a denialist, he speaks like a mafia man against the pope, he makes threats, which are made by someone representing a country like turkey - let us recall the precedent of the attack on the pope - and they have a particularly serious meaning which europe, with the amendments to the resolution, should find the courage to respond to and say that the pope who addressed himself with words of mercy and love between peoples cannot be answered with the language of toto riina, a mafia man. the head of state of a country which wants to join europe, and god forbid we should make this mistake, should not allow himself to speak like a mafia man to pope francis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as commissioner kristalina georgieva has said, the historical truth of the genocide cannot be denied. moreover, according to the international association of genocide scholars, denial is the very last act of genocide. so we simply cannot deny this historical truth of what happened 100 years ago. moreover, we must consider that it is precisely on the basis of the armenian genocide that the term was coined to describe the crime of genocide on which the 1948 un convention is based. but i say this, ladies and gentlemen, if we have really learned the lessons of history, we must not repeat the mistakes we have made too many times in history. we turned our heads in the face of atrocities. today there are atrocities that call for our responsibility and we are still tempted sometimes to turn our heads the other way. they were taken to syria, the same sands that collected their blood today collect the blood of other martyrs: let's not turn our heads today either!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the armenian genocide is a crime against humanity which ankara continues to deny, to erase from its political consciousness. unfortunately, it is also censured in the european negotiations with ankara, although some states and this parliament in 1987 called the massacres the murder of a people as such. it is as if we had united europe without german recognition of the nazi genocides. the union would not have been born without this recognition, which is a full acceptance of the legacy of the past. in the case of ankara, full responsibility for what was done by the young turks and the ottoman empire. this denialist policy prevents the turkish governments not only from making peace with armenia but also from self-criticism over the invasion and violence in cyprus in 1974. i would like to conclude by saying that i am sorry for what was said after the pope's denunciation by an italian minister, that there is not a single historical truth about the armenian genocide.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with this resolution the european parliament wishes to recognize the armenian genocide and to pay tribute to the memory of one and a half million victims, including thousands of intellectuals, artists and parliamentarians. if turkey wants to join the union, it must recognize the historical truth of the genocide of the armenians by the ottoman empire and start an effective peace process on this basis. only 22 countries have officially recognised the armenian genocide, including italy, and i therefore find the harsh words spoken by erdogan in recent days against pope francis, who is guilty of having spoken of genocide, truly unacceptable. we are proposing the establishment of a dedicated european day, but we are also calling on turkey to draw inspiration from the examples of reconciliation between the peoples of europe after the second world war.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is not necessary to repeat what is a fact and has already been stated by most of the members: the armenian genocide happened, we know it, i think we all know it, some people are stubbornly refusing to recognize it because they have some interest. we know that in turkey, if someone says that there was a genocide of armenians, they risk being arrested and imprisoned for three years under an anti-patriotism law, and that is a really absurd situation. i do not know whether it is more absurd or paradoxical that it should be a pope who has to tell a turkish government that it is behaving in a fascist manner, because erdogan's attitude is a fascist attitude, and for us he should be the first on the list to go educating. because it is useless to be discussing with turkey and making so many pre-accession agreements, giving them money, when we are talking to someone who insists on not even acknowledging that one and a half million people have been killed, so we must state this very strongly.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, this has been a very sober and dignified debate and it has demonstrated how strong the sense of sorrow is in this house for the armenians who tragically died or were pushed out of their homeland. as a bulgarian, i would like to recall one of our most prominent poets, peyo yavorov, who wrote one of the best known poems under the title armenians. let me quote from it in bulgarian. "изгнаници клети, отломка нищожна от винаги храбър народ мъченик, дечица на майка робиня тревожна, и жертви на подвиг чутовно велик" i do not know anybody in the balkans who is not deeply touched by the fate of the armenian people. let me turn to the questions you put. first, the commission acknowledges and respects the majority view in this house. this view has already been spelt out in parliament’s resolution on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world in 2013 where you stated that you called, ahead of the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide, on all the member states legally to acknowledge it and encouraged the member states and the european institutions to contribute further to its recognition. we also recognise, as has been stated by the council and acknowledged by many of you, that there are still differences in views among our member states on this issue. we focus on ways in which we can support and advance reconciliation, and support and advance unity among our member states. as an institution we have an obligation to bring views into unity. this is our obligation. engaging with the turkish authorities on issues that are so critical to turkeyʼs ability to advance towards european union membership is, of course, a matter of very significant concern for the commission. i can tell you that this is a very serious topic for the commission, for commissioner hahn and for all of us. what we would like to see, ultimately, is peace and harmony in europe and also for europe to export peace and harmony in the world. unfortunately thousands, and hundreds of thousands, and millions of children, women and men die because they are different: in religion, in ethnicity or in the way they consider their social life and their freedoms. we are determined that, for the european union to be successful, we have to be trusted to be able to carry forward these messages of democracy, freedom, respect for human dignity, and respect for human rights. i can assure you that i will convey back to the commission the intensity and the spirit of this debate and, obviously, the call that you have already made on us.
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, i thank you sincerely for the discussion on this very important and sensitive matter. we will take your positions and suggestions with us for further reflection and sharing with relevant services. this debate today has clearly demonstrated that we are all united in acknowledging the suffering endured by armenians a hundred years ago. states have diverging views as to whether these events can be formally qualified as genocide. the eu’s efforts, however, are forward-looking, having the aim of developing a prosperous and peaceful neighbourhood where partners cooperate regionally. the eu’s ultimate aim is to develop the union’s bilateral relations with its partners to their fullest potential. therefore it is important that the eu, including its institutions and member states, remains committed to facilitating positive and constructive relations between armenia and turkey.
in writing. as pope francis rightly recalled, the massacre of the armenian people, along with the catholic and orthodox syrians, assyrians, chaldeans and greeks, which affected as many as one and a half million people between 1915 and 1917, can be defined as the first genocide of the twentieth century. it is necessary, indeed, it is a duty, to remember these innocent victims, because to conceal or deny such events is to perpetuate them. i therefore welcome the european parliament's resolution commemorating the victims in a spirit of solidarity and justice, and firmly condemning genocide as well as all crimes against humanity and prejudice against minorities. at the same time, i believe that this moment of reflection should also be an important opportunity to achieve a normalization of diplomatic relations between turkey and armenia, which could bring human, cultural and economic benefits to both peoples. i hope, therefore, that despite the fact that president erdogan has said that he is indifferent to the european parliament's resolution, he will make a real effort to promote dialogue and reconciliation between the turks and the armenians.
in writing. the recognition by this house of the armenian genocide is certainly an important fact. we have been supporting this initiative for years and we are finally seeing a position from the eu. but it is not enough and that is why we would like, in view of turkey's continued refusal to recognize the genocide perpetrated, that the eu take a clear position on turkey's accession to europe.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as is often the case, the european union is always ready to criticise the shortcomings of the member states, but it is not so quick with its own shortcomings. unlike most of the countries of the european union, we do not adopt any disability quota system for euro-bureaucrats. the european union's recruitment agency, epso, organises very tough competitions to recruit new european officials, so if you do not want to apply a quota system, it would be interesting to know what kind of assistance is given to competitors with different abilities, in addition to the obvious provision of materials, which can be used for example by the blind, as has been said, and above all that real personalised assistance can be given and not limited to simple access to the examination venue. this should apply to all professional profiles, including temporary staff and seconded national experts. the same question should be put to the dozens of european agencies which are recruiting not only officials but also other temporary staff. i really believe that the institutions should be more sensitive to the disabled population, especially in terms of the accessibility of information, for example the adoption of sign language or real-time subtitles to enable everyone to follow the most important debates in the plenary. in this connection, we of the five star movement have proposed by written question the use of a special typeface with high readability designed to make it easier for the dyslexic population to consult written documents. i would also like to hear your opinion, mr president, and that of the commissioner, on the feasibility of this proposal. our mission here is to break down all the barriers which prevent citizens from participating in the political life of the community institutions, and these barriers are a little higher for citizens with different abilities, but they are by no means insurmountable.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard the commission's statement and i fully agree with its objectives. the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in its efforts to promote the development of the community. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a good example of the need to combat this. the way out of the crisis is not only to promote new ways of industrializing and developing the business system, but also to invest in the human capital of the most disadvantaged people, who must be guaranteed equal access to work and its places, starting with the european institutions. with particular regard to the european parliament, the 2009-2013 action plan adopted by the ep bureau includes a number of excellent actions, including the quota forecast. it is therefore of the utmost importance to continue along this path by providing for appropriate financial resources and, in the future, a specific budget line.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must work to create a barrier-free europe for the disabled. this was stated by the commissioner for employment and social affairs, marianne thyssen, during the hearing in the european parliament. unfortunately, the legislation on disability is still very weak: the 1978 directive 2000 establishes a legal framework for combating discrimination based on religion, personal convictions and disabilities in the field of employment. the point, however, is to move from a generic obligation to hire to a more structured process to properly assess the work capacity of people with disabilities and to place them in the right place. the aim of this type of targeted placement should not simply be to find a job for the disabled person, but rather to create a virtuous circle that can fully exploit the potential of the person, making him or her a positive and productive element in the work environment. although the union has responded to this challenge by adopting a number of initiatives, there is still a long way to go. it is time for the european union to establish strict rules so that the european union institutions also have greater quotas for the employment of people with disabilities.
in writing. access by disabled people to information concerning the union, including information on competitions, and the effective use of competitions should be ensured. it is essential that the right of all citizens to participate in the political life of the union's institutions be guaranteed in practice, and not just in principle. to this end we have submitted a written question proposing the use of a special typeface with high readability designed to make it easy for the dyslexic population to consult written documents, and we will continue to engage in all possible ways.
in writing. i am surprised that the very eu institutions, which should be a source of good practice and guarantee rights and equal opportunities for all citizens, do not provide for employment quotas for people with disabilities. for once, the states are doing the schooling. of course, there is still a long way to go at national level, too, because only a small percentage of disabled people are employed. what is certain is that the eu cannot be left behind or, even worse, unprepared. the european union has an obligation to include disabled people in the great european machine, and above all to include them.
in writing. more than 50 million europeans over 10% of the population have a disability which, even today, creates obstacles in many aspects of their lives, including their working lives. by adopting council decision 2010/48/ec of 26 november 2009, the eu acceded to the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which aims to ensure that persons with disabilities enjoy all human rights and fundamental freedoms. the institutions must set a good example in this respect and one possible way would be to introduce quotas for disabled people in their calls for tenders. this is an instrument already in place in 21 of the 28 member states, which would help to ensure effective equal access to the community institutions: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the current absence of a bilateral agreement between the european union and mexico on the transfer of pnr data means that european airlines cannot transfer pnr data to the mexican authorities without breaching european data protection legislation. at the same time, however, we have seen that in the face of such a refusal they risk being exposed to heavy financial penalties which the mexican authorities threaten to impose. we believe that the threat of heavy fines is not only absolutely condemnable, because it effectively strengthens the decision-making and negotiating power of the european institutions, but that it could also set a dangerous precedent, given that many other third countries, such as south korea and the united arab emirates, are already pressing russia to conclude pnr agreements with the european union. the european union currently has agreements on the transfer of pnr data with the united states, canada and australia. we know that before giving its consent to ratify the agreement, the european parliament recently referred the agreement to the court of justice for an opinion on its compatibility with european data protection legislation. obviously, the matter is extremely delicate: the debate on the european pnr has also recently raised a number of criticisms and concerns in relation to the protection of fundamental rights, in particular the protection of personal data and freedom of movement. many points which deserve further examination and which have led to a request for a ruling on the merits of the commission on the compatibility with the judgment of the european court of justice which declared the data retention directive unlawful because it violated the principle of proportionality in the balance between the right to data protection and the needs of public security. the first thing to be done is to identify what is meant by pnr data, i.e. what kind of data is intended to be included and therefore transferred. criteria are provided for differentiating the duration of data retention; there are substantive and procedural conditions to which access to the data is subject; and finally, which authorities are competent to access and process the data themselves. it is clear, therefore, that the examination of these criteria requires time and caution. the public security considerations in the name of which the transfer of pnr data is strongly requested cannot be subordinated to the protection of fundamental rights. we therefore ask the commission what measures it intends to take to ensure that the transfer of pnr data to mexico is in line with european data protection rules; whether it intends to take measures to ensure that air carriers do not face high fines or the withdrawal of landing rights when the mexican legislation enters into force. finally, is the commission aware of a sharing agreement between mexico, the united states and canada, and if so, what consequences will this agreement have for the transfer of personal data by air carriers to the mexican authorities, and, above all, what legal remedies european citizens will have in the event of a breach of their rights in relation to the processing of personal data? (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. thank you for your speech, which allows me to reiterate how deplorable and absolutely condemnable it is to resort to a threat which, as cornelia ernst also said, is in fact a blackmail imposed by the mexican authorities on the european institutions. this is not the correct modus operandi, this is not the way to proceed in bilateral agreements between the european union, and we firmly and resolutely condemn this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, asbestos was banned in europe in 1999, but the number of cases of asbestos-related diseases remains high. the world health organization estimates that there are between 20,000 and 30,000 a year, a very high number that shows how asbestos unfortunately continues to produce dramatic effects and is still present in various sites. the commission has not yet taken any steps to develop a model for systematically collecting data on asbestos-related diseases, both occupational and non-occupational. the commission should also be able to request the member states to provide information on the use of asbestos in the production of asbestos-containing products. it is time for the commission to act more effectively by following up the calls made during the last legislature for a revision of european legislation to that effect, including the making of recovery plans compulsory for the states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after 14 years the european court of human rights has condemned italy for the crime of torture in connection with what happened at the diaz school during the g8 in genoa. the one imposed on italy is a double sentence: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this crime, including the introduction of a new law on the protection of the environment. a legislative vote that allows those who commit such a crime to go unpunished. in italy, the recognition and introduction of the crime of torture has been dragging on for over two years. two other complaints pending before the strasbourg courts relate to beatings and humiliations inflicted during the events in genoa. in those days, something happened that was reprehensible for a western democracy: the most basic human rights were trampled on, in particular those enshrined in article 3 of the european union convention on human rights which prohibits torture, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the european institutions have a duty to strengthen and make more effective the mechanisms for monitoring, preventing and punishing violations of fundamental rights in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the egf, the european globalisation adjustment fund, to support 2 513 workers who lost their jobs in france as a result of the crisis in the heavy goods transport sector. the egf is a key instrument to support the internal market, but this europe should tackle the underlying malfunctions of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, since i consider it very important to deploy the resources of the european globalisation adjustment fund in order to help the french workers who have lost their jobs and are therefore faced with such a terrible situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of 2 513 workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis by mory-ducros sas, a company operating in the transport sector. the general decline in production in europe has led to a reduction in transport volumes and triggered a price war within the road freight transport sector, which has led to a continuous deterioration in operating margins, a series of losses for the sector in particular in france and a wave of bankruptcies, including that of mory-ducros. the objective of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is to facilitate the rapid reintegration of these redundant workers into working life by means of personalised support measures, such as assistance in finding a job, vocational guidance, training and retraining, promotion of self-employment and entrepreneurship. i regret that italian companies are not taking full advantage of this fund because of the lack of support from local institutions.
in writing. ‒ this mobilisation of the egf was carried out following the bankruptcy of mory-ducros sas. the company was active in the transport sector and the redundancies affected 84 locations throughout mainland france. the crisis in the sector is linked to the general decline in physical production in europe, which has led to a reduction in transport volumes and triggered a price war within the road freight transport sector. this was followed by a wave of bankruptcies, including that of mory-ducros sas. as a result of the creation of a new company, more than 50 of the 84 agencies were taken over and 2 107 of the 4 911 workers were rehired; the commission has therefore decided to grant aid to the two firms in question, which are in the process of being restructured.
in writing. ‒ eurostat has calculated that the transport of goods by road with vehicles weighing more than 3.5 tonnes fell by 13.7% in the european union and by 21% in france between 2007 and 2012. the french transport company mory-ducros's recourse to the european globalisation adjustment fund, like the many other requests on which parliament has spoken, is due to the continuing global economic and financial crisis which has had the effect of drastically reducing consumption. i voted in favour of the request from france to the european commission, which was also welcomed by the council's budget committee, to mobilise eur 6 052 200 to support the 2 513 workers, many of whom have unfortunately already had their employment contracts terminated.
in writing. ‒ the measure under examination refers, in the context of the 2015 budget, to the mobilisation of the egf in favour of france for a total amount of eur 6 052 200. it concerns the redundancy of 2 513 workers. the request is based on the relocation of redundant workers from mory-ducros, a company operating in the economic sector classified in nace rev. 2 division 49. it should be noted that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide support for workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. according to the french authorities, the two events that caused the redundancies were the bankruptcy and the closure of the company. the bank of france also noted that, due to the global financial and economic crisis, bankruptcies in the road freight transport sector increased by 35% in the period 2007-2013 while the road freight transport of vehicles weighing more than 3,5 tonnes in france decreased by 21% in the period 2007-2012 compared to a decrease of 13,7% in the eu. the french authorities have provided all the guarantees. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the egf for france because i believe that this appropriation can represent at least a partial compensation for the costs and benefits that may arise from the structural changes in world trade due to globalisation. i considered that the 2 513 redundancies at mory-ducros sas, a company operating in the land transport sector, were an indirect consequence of these changes due to globalisation, since the general decline in physical production in europe has led to a reduction in the volumes to be transported and has triggered a price war within the road freight transport sector. this led to a wave of failures, including that of mory-ducros. i therefore considered that the intervention of the european institutions was appropriate for the protection of european workers who are affected by the structural changes due to world trade.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the egf following the request from france for financial assistance for the reintegration into employment of workers made redundant by mory-ducros sas, a company active in the transport sector. as a result of the economic and financial crisis, road transport by vehicles over 3,5 tonnes decreased by 13,7% in europe and by 21% in france between 2007 and 2012. the decrease in the quantity of products in circulation, together with the increase in transport costs, has led to a significant reduction in profit margins for companies in the sector. the situation created forced mory-ducros to go bankrupt and the company, which had 4,911 employees, to close. while the french state is already actively promoting some measures to re-employ those made redundant by mory-ducros, the egf will finance a team of experts to provide personalised assistance to the 2 513 workers still unemployed, increasing the likelihood of a rapid re-integration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for mory-ducros sas, in the context of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015. the french company is active in the land and pipeline transport sector, which is crucial for the completion of the internal market and is often affected by the effects of the global economic and financial crisis, as demonstrated by the reduction in physical production in europe. union action in the social field will, in this context, assist 2,513 redundancies for reintegration into the labour market. it is important that the french government, in submitting its application for a financial contribution from the egf of eur 6 052 200 corresponding to 60% of the total costs, has correctly interpreted the additional nature of the support requested. the measures are designed to benefit from the other complementary eu legislative and budgetary instruments, which are included in order to ensure an efficient and integrated use of resources. the coordinated package of personalised services submitted also shows that other initiatives have been taken by the national authority to address the continental dimension of the case, also independently of the use of the egf, tailored to the specific needs of the workers.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the egf for france to support the reintegration of redundant workers at mory-ducros, a company hit hard by the global financial and economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting €6 052 000 for the 2 513 redundancies out of 2 804 due to the bankruptcy of mory-ducros in france.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to mobilise funds because the request meets the requirements and above all because it offers help and new hope to thousands of citizens and families who are victims of the crisis.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a decision of the ep and the council on the mobilisation of a contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund of eur 6 052 200 in respect of the insolvency of mory-ducros sas because its bankruptcy caused the insolvency of 2 513 workers spread over 84 locations in mainland france. of these, 17% are over 55 and face a higher risk of longterm unemployment and social exclusion. mory-ducros, like the whole road transport sector, has suffered the effects of the economic and financial crisis, the decline in physical production in europe and the consequent reduction in the volumes to be transported and the operating margins of the companies, which are forced to wage a price war to safeguard their turnover. the workers are once again paying the price of the crisis. the egf financing of personalised job-search and vocational retraining services, provided through a single window, is important and necessary but not sufficient. the eu must go further and tackle the crisis in the freight transport sector (-13.7% in the period 2007-2013) by providing even more effective tools for the protection and safety of workers.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund, which refers to the request submitted by france for a financial contribution of eur 6 052 200 following 2 513 redundancies, affecting 84 locations across mainland france, at mory-ducros sas, a company operating in the classified economic sector ('land and pipeline transport'). the european union must act to support the countries and their people if the consequences of changes in trade are to be finally reduced.
in writing. ‒ according to eurostat data, the road freight transport sector has suffered a significant decline due to the reduction in the volumes to be transported and in france the crisis in the sector has led to a decrease of 21%. the beneficiaries of the financial allocation under voting are just over 2,500 with an estimated cost of eur 10 million. my vote is in favour.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for france to support the reintegration into the labour market of mory ducros sas workers who have been made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade and the global economic and financial crisis. according to the data cited by the french authorities, the redundancies were caused by the general decline in physical production in europe, which led to a reduction in the volumes to be transported and triggered a price war within the road freight transport sector. since 2007, operating margins have therefore been continuously deteriorating and the sector has suffered a series of losses in france: this has produced a wave of failures, including that of mory-ducros. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed will focus on vocational guidance and counselling, training and retraining, and will include job search and mobility allowances. we are therefore confident that these european incentives will be a valuable aid to the reintegration of these workers.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade. this application, the eleventh under the 2015 budget, concerns the mobilisation of the egf in the amount of eur 6 052 200 for france. the commission has decided to initiate proceedings under article 93 (2) of the eec treaty in respect of two sets of measures concerning the dismissal of 2 804 workers by mory-ducros, a company active in the field of land transport and pipeline transport. in the light of the above, i have agreed with mr denanot's report because i believe that workers, who are victims of the economic and financial crisis and of the market imbalances caused by the advance of globalisation, should have the full support of the european union.
in writing. ‒ whereas the union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns or the global economic and financial crisis and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market; whereas union financial support to redundant workers should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible; whereas the adoption of the egf regulation reflects the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the reintroduction of the crisis mobilisation criterion, the increase of the union's financial contribution to 60% of the estimated total costs of the proposed measures, the increased efficiency of the processing of applications for egf assistance within the commission and by the parliament and the council achieved by reducing the time taken for evaluation and approval, the extension of eligible actions and beneficiaries to self-employed persons and young people, and the financing of incentives for the creation of own enterprises, i have therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the egf (european globalisation adjustment fund) is being mobilised in france for the reintegration of redundant workers at mory-ducros (a company operating in the road haulage sector), following a proposal for a decision adopted by the commission. the french authorities have stated that the global economic crisis has led to a 35% failure of companies in this sector, with a decline in freight transport by vehicles weighing more than 3,5 tonnes both in france and in europe (also due to the decline in production and sales). i hope that the personalised services for workers financed by the fund will help them to re-skill. the services provided include a counselling and guidance service which will be provided to workers by a group of experts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for 2,513 workers made redundant by a company operating in the economic sector, because i believe that europe must help its citizens and that approving this request is one of the ways in which we can be closer to those in need.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to the tune of some eur 6 million against 2,513 redundancies for the bankruptcy of mory-ducros, a heavy goods transport company.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund efg/2014/017fr/mory-ducros for the amount of eur 6 052 200. i believe that this instrument can give tangible help to the 2 513 workers laid off by mory-ducros, a company active in land transport and pipeline transport. this case is another example of the effects of the global financial and economic crisis, which caused the transport of heavy goods goods by rubber in france to decrease by 21% between 2007 and 2012. i hope that this financial contribution will enable these workers to re-enter the labour market as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund to support 2,513 employees of mory-ducros sas, a company operating in the land transport sector whose redundancies affected 84 locations across france. the excesses are due to the global financial and economic crisis, which, due to the decrease in overall physical production in europe, has led to a reduction in the volumes to be transported. a price war has thus broken out in the sector, which, aggravated by the upward trend in various costs (gasoline, wages, materials), has led since 2007 to a continuous deterioration of operating margins and a series of losses for the sector in france, including the bankruptcy of several companies including mory-ducros sas. the total amount of eur 6 052 200 from the european globalisation adjustment fund is a single action to be carried out through a single window (cells de requalification) managed by three contracting agencies, the aim of which is to cover as much of mainland france as possible and to ensure the reintegration of as many workers as possible.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is important to set up a consultative committee whose purpose is to promote cooperation on social protection policies for better and more effective coordination between the member states and the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this decision on the establishment of a social protection committee since i consider that the current economic situation calls for more decisive actions that only a more integrated approach at the union level can guarantee. the spc has already proved itself useful in this respect in the past.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report to modernise and improve social protection in europe. one in five people in the eu is at risk of social exclusion. such a high level of people living on the margins of society undermines social cohesion and limits the potential of europeans. this is particularly damaging at a time when member states are working to ensure recovery from the economic and financial crisis. the social protection committee, which brings together representatives of the member states and the european commission, can enable the member states and the european commission to cooperate in order to address the challenge of social exclusion, provide a secure income, ensure the security and sustainability of pension schemes, promote social inclusion and ensure sustainable and high-quality healthcare for all. i think the social protection committee should propose inclusion strategies that combine access to the labour market and social and health services to prevent long-term exclusion and that increase the efficiency of social spending in order to facilitate labour market participation for all and to improve the coverage and adequacy of social safety nets.
in writing. ‒ the vote was on the council decision to set up the social protection committee, which was slightly amended for the better. we believe that protecting the most vulnerable must be a priority for europe. i therefore voted in favour of the establishment of such a committee.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament approved the council's draft as amended. the council noted that enhanced cooperation to modernise and improve social protection should cover all forms of protection and that member states should be assisted in improving and strengthening their social protection systems in accordance with their priorities. in this context, the member states must achieve four main objectives identified by the commission: (1) making work profitable through a secure income; (2) ensure the security and sustainability of pension schemes; (3) promoting social inclusion and (4) ensuring social assistance for all. in addition, equality between men and women must be a common denominator for all the above objectives. it is also important, within the social dimension of emu, to ensure better coordination of employment and socioeconomic policies while fully respecting national competences. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken in favour of the introduction of a social protection committee because i believe that such a delicate and multifaceted issue should be entrusted to officials with specific competences. let me be clear: i will ensure that this new body is not a duplication of what already exists, nor a bogeyman, nor a waste of public money, but rather a means of making the efforts made by the european institutions in this field more efficient. this will enable us to pursue ambitious objectives such as developing and modernising the social protection systems of all european countries and strengthening cooperation between them through the exchange of experience and good practice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision establishing the social protection committee because, as already highlighted in the conclusions of the lisbon european council in march 2000, social protection is a fundamental element for improving the quality of life of citizens and for achieving the full realisation of an effective and dynamic social state in europe. for this to happen, it is of paramount importance to strengthen cooperation between the member states, and hence the exchange of information and good practice between them, and the establishment of a mechanism of enhanced cooperation, such as the social protection committee, which was conceived with this in mind. the committee's special composition, which brings together two representatives from each member state and the commission, will ensure greater awareness of the social policies of the european countries and better sharing of the practices implemented and the results achieved. at the same time, it will help and support the council and the commission by providing them with specialised and timely advice on the social situation in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision establishing the social protection committee, which will be responsible for promoting cooperation on social protection policies between the member states and the commission. the committee shall be composed of two representatives appointed by each member state and two representatives of the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft decision establishing the social protection committee to ensure better coordination and promotion of social protection measures. it is a text which will enable us to maintain the very high level of social security which distinguishes european countries and to continue to guarantee european citizens decent living conditions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council decision establishing a social protection committee and repealing the previous decision 2004/689/ec, because the aim is to promote the strengthening of the social dimension of economic and monetary union. in particular, the strengthening of the role of the social protection committee in the european semester and the improvement of its efficiency, and through this strengthening to ensure greater and better coordination of employment and social policies in the context of the european semester, while fully respecting national competences, as stated in the conclusions of the european council of june 2013, the improvement of the coordination of economic, social and labour policies, as stated in the conclusions of the european council of october 2013. i also believe that it is particularly important to monitor and take account of the social and labour market situation in emu, in particular by using the appropriate social and employment indicators in the context of the european semester.
in writing. ‒ although the 28 member states all have different social security systems, it is important that the eu implements policies to ensure high levels of social protection for all citizens. in the light of the resources and the specificities of national systems, it is right to ask the member states to ensure sustainable pension schemes, effective social integration and universal health insurance. i therefore voted in favour of the establishment of the social protection committee because it is a fundamental first step towards implementing effective cooperation at european level to guarantee the social rights of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ i express my favourable opinion on the draft council decision establishing a social protection committee and repealing decision 2004/689/ec. a committee should be set up to strengthen, improve and promote social inclusion and ensure high quality health care.
in writing. ‒ we are in favour of more attention to social protection policies, but we do not think that the establishment of an additional advisory body, with its associated costs, is the right solution.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the draft council decision establishing the social protection committee to strengthen cooperation in the field of social protection through the creation of a group of high-level officials. in its conclusions of june 2013, the european council stated the need to strengthen the social dimension of economic and monetary union as well. we therefore consider that the role which this consultative committee can play in promoting closer cooperation on social policy between the member states and the commission through a system of exchange of information and good practice is essential. its tasks will include contributing to the coordination of economic policies within the european semester and ensuring structured cooperation with all the social partners and with other relevant bodies and committees dealing with social and economic policy issues. we therefore call for social protection systems to be made accessible to all european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision establishing the social protection committee and repealing decision 2004/689/ec. the committee shall be composed of two representatives appointed by each member state and two representatives of the european commission. this mechanism will help member states to improve and strengthen their social protection systems in line with their national priorities. it also affirms the competence of the member states for the organisation and financing of social protection and endorses the four general objectives identified by the commission in this field, namely: make work worthwhile by providing a secure income, ensure the security and sustainability of pension systems, promote social inclusion and ensure high quality and sustainable healthcare for all. it also stresses that equality between women and men must be a dominant feature in all activities aimed at achieving the four objectives mentioned above.
in writing. ‒ whereas the european parliament approves the council's draft as amended, calls on the council to inform it if it intends to depart from the text approved by parliament, asks the council to consult it again if it intends to substantially amend the text approved by parliament and instructs its president to forward parliament's position to the council and the commission and to the national parliaments, i therefore voted in favour;
in writing. ‒ as we have seen, the social protection committee has proved useful as a consultative body of the council and the european commission in the field of social protection cooperation with its group of high-level officials composed of representatives of the member states and the commission. i therefore support its creation with a very specific mission and functions and hence the repeal of decision 2004/689/ec which will be replaced by the present one.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of repealing decision 200/689 ec because i believe that the social protection committee has actively contributed to the development of open coordination between the european institutions and the member states. however, as required by the text adopted, it needed to be amended in order to make the committee more up-to-date and in step with the times and current needs.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the establishment of a consultative committee to promote cooperation on social protection policies between the member states and the commission. it shall be composed of two representatives appointed by each member state and two representatives of the commission. its functions are to monitor the social situation and the development of social protection policies in the member states and the union and to promote exchanges of information, experience and good practice between the member states and with the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council's decision to strengthen the advisory role of the social protection committee in order to foster cooperation between member states and with the institutions of the european union on social protection policies, while respecting national competences. in particular, i am confident that the social protection committee can enable better and more effective exchanges of information and best practice between the institutions so as to ensure better formulation and implementation of social policies.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the re-establishment of a social protection committee. the proposal lays the foundations for a closer monitoring of the social situation within the union and the development of social protection policies within the member states and the european union. such monitoring, combined with increased information exchange between member states, will provide a better and deeper understanding of levels of social inclusion, health and pensions, also through the open method of coordination. the committee will also be able to establish contacts with the social partners and social non-governmental organisations in order to obtain as much information as possible and to ensure better supervision of social protection, preventing it from being put on the back burner even in a time of crisis.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is important to set up a consultative committee whose purpose is to promote cooperation on employment and labour market policies between the member states, a new instrument for coordination between european institutions and territories that is all the more necessary at this time of deep and protracted economic and social crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today to support the role of the employment committee, which is to coordinate the employment and labour market policies of the member states. to respond to the high levels of unemployment in europe, the employment committee must launch a series of measures to promote job creation by assessing individual national reform programmes. the employment committee, which brings together representatives of the member states and the european commission, can promote cooperation between member states and the european commission to tackle the employment challenge by proposing strategies to invest in human capital through the improvement of education and training. the employment committee should also suggest new initiatives to make the eu more attractive to investors and workers by developing the internal market, improving national legislation, removing obstacles to the creation of new smes, stimulating entrepreneurship, ensuring open and competitive markets, improving european infrastructure and increasing flexibility to better adapt to restructuring and market developments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the establishment of the employment committee as proposed by the council decision. this committee on employment brings together representatives of the member states and the european commission and will promote cooperation between the member states and the european commission in tackling the employment challenge. we therefore believe that the fight against unemployment must be a priority for the european union. i therefore voted in favour of the establishment of such a committee.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has approved the council's draft establishing the employment committee as provided for in the text of article 150 tfeu. the committee is advisory and aims to promote coordination between member states in the fields of employment and labour market policies. the main functions are: (1) to monitor the employment situation and employment policies in the member states and the union and (2) to deliver opinions at the request of the council or the commission or on its own initiative, and to contribute to the preparation of the council's work. in the performance of its duties, the committee shall consult the social partners. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council decision establishing the employment committee, because its objective is to promote coordination of employment and labour market policies in the eu countries and thus to combat the unemployment rate in the eu, which according to data for december 2014 is 9.9%. in italy in particular, we need additional efforts which this government does not seem to want to make, beyond the facade retouching. i am convinced that the european union can act by facilitating the coordination of the employment policies of the member states, in order to increase their effectiveness and develop a coordinated strategy for employment. i also appreciated the way in which the committee's members are selected from among senior officials or experts with proven experience in employment and the labour market, because i believe that such an important and complex subject should rightly be assigned to officials with specific expertise.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision establishing the employment committee, given the need for a common strategy to find a solution to the problem of unemployment which has been affecting the whole continent for some years. given the recognised freedom of movement for workers, it is considered that the time is ripe for employment policies to be implemented at eu level. in this context, the creation of a committee to monitor the internal problems of the member states and the development of national labour market legislation is essential. the new body, which will be composed of experts in the field, will be able to formulate opinions and opinions, either at the request of the council or the commission or on its own initiative, and will thus contribute to european programming in the fields of employment and the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision establishing the committee to promote coordination of employment and labour market policies between the member states and the commission. the committee shall be composed of two representatives appointed by each member state and two representatives of the commission.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, the unemployment figures in europe are still disappointing. in the face of this situation, the eu has an urgent duty to take all the necessary measures to boost employment and give a future to millions of european families. today i voted in favour of the draft resolution on the establishment of the employment committee to ensure better coordination between eu labour market policies and to provide, through it, a tool to ensure greater preparation of the council in the preparation and implementation of the european employment strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council decision establishing the employment committee and repealing the previous decision 2000/98/ec, because the committee is called upon to play an important role in coordinating the employment policies of the member states with a view to enhancing their effectiveness, so that the elaboration and subsequent implementation of a european employment strategy and the coordination of macroeconomic policies are formulated in a coherent manner. the committee's tasks are very important because it is called upon to participate in the procedure for adopting the broad economic policy guidelines and to promote coordination between the member states in the field of employment and labour market policies within the framework of the european semester. by promoting the exchange of information and good practice between the member states and the commission, and by participating in the macroeconomic dialogue at european level. the decision provides for the committee to be composed of two representatives from each member state and two from the european commission, taking into account gender equality in their respective appointments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i think it is necessary to set up an employment committee. first of all , because of its nature: the consultative nature of the report highlights the need for coordination between the member states on employment and the labour market. but, surely, more important and urgent is the objective that this committee has set itself. monitoring labour policies in the member states and achieving high employment standards will help to improve the social conditions of many workers who, especially in recent years, have suffered a weakening of many of their rights as a result of the crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision establishing the employment committee, i believe that strengthening and improving social protection through the establishment of a committee is a necessary means of improving the situation of workers. social advancement makes work worthwhile by providing secure income through sustainable pension schemes and through health care for all.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of an employment advisory committee and increased focus on maintaining employment levels could be good news
in writing. ‒ we welcome the draft council decision on the establishment of the employment committee, as we consider it essential that the european union, in accordance with article 5 of the tfeu, takes measures to ensure coordination of employment policies in all member states. the ultimate aim will undoubtedly be to develop a coordinated strategy to promote a skilled, trained workforce capable of adapting to changes in the labour market and responding to the evolution of the economy in general. we consider that the role of this advisory committee in the process of economic reform in the member states is crucial in order to make them as coherent and complementary as possible. its tasks will also include contributing to the coordination of economic policies in the context of the european semester and promoting the exchange of information and good practice between the member states and the european commission. the committee will also ensure that all social partners and other relevant bodies and committees dealing with social and economic policy issues are adequately consulted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision establishing the employment committee and repealing decision 2000/98/ec. the committee will have an advisory role in monitoring the employment policies of the member states and the union with a view to developing a coordinated strategy for employment, and in particular for promoting a competent and qualified workforce able to respond to economic change.
in writing. ‒ whereas the european parliament approves the council's draft, calls on the council to inform it if it intends to depart from the text approved by parliament, asks the council to consult it again if it intends to make substantial changes to the text approved by parliament and instructs its president to forward parliament's position to the council and the commission as well as to the national parliaments, for which reasons i voted in favour;
in writing. ‒ at the same time, the employment committee has proved useful as a consultative body for the council and the commission on the issues assigned to it. i also support the establishment of the committee on employment and social affairs, and consequently the repeal of decision 2000/98/ec, following the report of the committee on employment and social affairs and the vote of all members in favour of it.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the establishment of a committee of consultative status to promote coordination of employment and labour market policies between member states. each member state and the commission shall appoint two full members of the committee. its main functions are: to monitor the employment situation and policies in the member states and the union; to deliver opinions at the request of the council or the commission or on its own initiative; contribute to the preparation of the council's work referred to in article 148 of the treaty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council decision on the establishment of an employment committee with an advisory role. i believe that this committee can promote and ensure better coordination both between the member states and with the institutions of the european union in the definition of coherent strategies in the field of employment and labour market policies. i am therefore confident that the committee will help to ensure that the european employment strategy, the coordination of macroeconomic policies and the process of economic reforms are formulated and implemented in a mutually beneficial way.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of this report, which seeks to establish an employment committee. the unemployment rate in the european union is now 9.9%, and although it has fallen in recent years, we are still not close enough to the end of the crisis. i therefore believe that the creation of such a committee can make a major contribution to the fight against unemployment. the committee's objective of monitoring the labour market and the employment policies of governments, i believe, can allow the development of common european policies and strategies, which are essential for a further revival of the european labour market. in addition, such a committee will allow for greater exchanges of information and a macroeconomic dialogue at union level, which will certainly make an important contribution and provide greater possibilities for the development of not only national but above all european employment plans.
in writing. ‒ i do not share the positions taken in this report, it is clear that the entire multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 was planned in a totally unrealistic way which has led to measures like this, which push the european institutions to move funds into later years to settle accounts; i therefore did not intend to support this text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation amending the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014-2020 because this is an indispensable step to complete the starting process of the new cohesion policy programming period, and it is of paramount importance to start a process as soon as possible in order to avoid any negative impact for eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council regulation amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014/2020. the european structural and investment funds constitute the most important investment policy of the union and it is therefore essential that all resources are used in a timely and effective manner. the revision of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 should therefore be carried out by ensuring the implementation of programmes that were adopted later than planned: the new programming period has already suffered too many and too significant delays and it is necessary to prevent any further delays. attention should be paid to the quality of the projects submitted and to ensuring that programmes are geared to stimulating growth and creating jobs, especially for young people. the procedures must also be simplified in order to ensure that all resources are used in a full, constructive and effective way and, above all, to enable citizens and local authorities to have access to these financial resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted on an amendment to the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. it is a major technical change with a very real impact. article 19 of council regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 provides that, where new rules or new programmes under shared management for the structural funds, the cohesion fund, the eafrd, the emff, the emff and the esf are adopted after 1 january 2014, the multiannual financial framework is to be revised in order to transfer to subsequent years the allocations not used in 2014. this vote allows us to make changes to reallocate over 21 billion over the next few years, which were previously allocated but have not been used.
in writing. ‒ pending a general review and deeper revision of the multiannual financial framework in 2016, the amendment we have approved will allow the 'recovery' and use in the coming months of some eur 21 billion of commitment appropriations which were unfortunately unused in 2014 due to delays in the finalisation of many important programmes. this will allow for the transfer of eur 16,5 billion to the 2015 budget and eur 4,5 billion to the 2016 budget. these resources should be allocated to key spending areas such as economic, social and territorial cohesion policy, sustainable growth and the exploitation of natural resources, in order to facilitate the development and implementation of local development programmes, and to trigger economic recovery and employment growth, especially among young people, including by encouraging the necessary re-launch of public investment at home. the commission will have to make every effort to avoid further delays in the preparation of programmes and commitment appropriations and all the possibilities provided for by the flexibility provisions of the mff will have to be used, both to provide payment appropriations on time and to strengthen employment support. that is why i voted in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament gives its consent to the draft council regulation amending the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. as noted in the opinion of the committee on regional development, the late adoption of the cohesion policy regulations for the period 2014-2020 made it impossible to adopt all operational programmes in a timely manner. at the end of 2014, only 252 (39%) union programmes had been adopted. for 93 programmes (14%) a revision of the mff is not necessary as they were ready for adoption before the end of 2014 and were not adopted due to lack of time. the 2014 appropriations for these programmes may still be adopted. the remaining 300 programmes (47%) require a revision of the mff. the project aims to transfer almost all programmes for economic and social cohesion to 2015, with the exception of the erdf contributions to cross-border programmes under the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) which are instead transferred to 2017. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amending the multiannual financial framework, as delays in adopting the rules governing the programmes have jeopardised access to european structural development funds. this has resulted in the non-implementation of a number of programmes in 2014 and the consequent stagnation of unused funds. it is estimated that for italy alone, about 66% of the 2014 funds were not allocated to programmes. this waste is no longer tolerable, and since my election i have been fighting to ensure that italy, which is already a net contributor, gets all that it deserves. the adoption of these amendments will enable us to finance 300 national programmes that were delayed in 2014, and we will be able to roll over for the period 2015-2016-2017 the €21.1 billion in commitment appropriations not used in 2014 but due to us. hopefully, there won't be any more mishaps later.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft council regulation amending regulation (eu) no 1311/2013 establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014/2020. since, due to delays in adoption, it has not been possible to commit in 2014 or to carry over to 2015 part of the allocations provided for the structural funds, the cohesion fund, the european agricultural fund for rural development, the european maritime and fisheries fund, the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund, it is considered appropriate to amend the annex to that regulation. i have therefore decided to support the council's proposal for a revision, which will make it possible to transfer the commitment appropriations not used in 2014 to subsequent years.
in writing. ‒ first of all, the commission's speed in responding to the late adoption of some operational programmes and avoiding the loss of resources should be appreciated. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the objective, however, must be to avoid that the concentration of resources in a single yearly period jeopardises their absorption and increases the risk of decommitment in 2018. we therefore call on the commission to step up its efforts in the months and years ahead by playing a genuine active partner role, working with national and regional authorities and taking all available measures, including considering, during the 2017 review, the possibility of intervention and legislative changes. without looking too far ahead, it will be essential - and we trust in this - that from the day after the new mff enters into force, the commission mobilises all its available resources and instruments to simplify and facilitate the task of the national and regional authorities.
in writing. ‒ i supported the revision of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 and the related budget amendment no 2/2015. the delays in the approval of the mff, the regulations of the funds concerned and the operational programmes led to the use of article 19 of regulation (eu) no 1311/2013. a technical initiative calling for a broader review of budgetary policies. the present historical moment is crucial for the union, flexibility responds to the needs of the implementation of cohesion policy. large sums from the european budget will be transferred from the 2014 to the 2015 management in support of regional policy, whose priorities, convergence, competitiveness and cross-border cooperation, deserve constant attention from the european parliament to ensure effective smart, inclusive and sustainable growth of the union. the funds involved are therefore essential for the realisation of the real single market and for the security of the union. to avoid the avalanche effect of late payments, we must provide quick and preventive responses for the coming years, avoiding a worsening of the economic and financial crisis to the detriment of european citizens and administrations. to promote equitable development and the protection of financial interests, simplified procedures and an active and synergistic role for institutional actors are desirable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposed amendments to the eu budget for 2014-2017 to finance 300 national programmes which were delayed in 2014. these changes, requested by the european commission, will allow the transfer of eur 21,1 billion in commitment appropriations not used in the year 2014 to the period 2015-2017. for italy this is an important milestone because about 66% of the funds planned for 2014 that were not allocated to programmes will now be available for the period 2015-2017.
in writing. ‒ i am against the late adoption of the cohesion policy regulations which has caused a delay in the start of implementation of the vast majority of the operational programmes for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. ‒ the multiannual financial framework (mff) is the set of rules that the european union establishes to ensure that its expenditure is carried out in an orderly manner within the limits of its resources. given that it was not possible to commit money for the structural funds, the cohesion fund, the european agricultural fund and the maritime fund in 2014 and to carry over to 2015, it was appropriate to review regulation (eu) no 1311/2013 - euratom - as it is necessary to transfer the commitment appropriations not used in 2014 to subsequent years.
in writing. ‒ we vote in favour of this recommendation, which aims at a better and more complete use of all available resources for the year 2014.
in writing. ‒ we support this recommendation as the late adoption of the 2014-2020 cohesion policy regulations has made it impossible to adopt all operational programmes in a timely manner. this is an indispensable procedure to complete the process of launching the new programming period of cohesion policy, avoiding any negative impact on regions and cities and, consequently, on european citizens. we cannot afford any further delay. we agree with the rapporteur that the commission must cooperate with the member states and the regions not only to adopt all the remaining programmes rapidly but also to implement the programmes carefully, with the aim of achieving a full and effective use of all the resources. we would point out that this proposal does not contain any changes to the payment appropriations: the transfer of commitment appropriations from 2014 to 2015 will not, in fact, impose any particular obstacle to payments in the coming years. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that.
in writing. ‒ the late adoption of the 2014-2020 cohesion policy regulations has made it impossible to adopt all operational programmes in a timely manner. in order not to lose the 2014 appropriations, the annex to regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 should therefore be revised by transferring the commitment appropriations not used in 2014 to subsequent years for subheading 1b and heads 2 and 3. in view of the enormous importance of the european funds at this time of economic and financial crisis for italy and for europe as a whole, i have given my approval to the draft council regulation amending the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament gives its consent to the draft council regulation amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014/2020 as set out in the annex to this resolution and instructs its president to forward parliament's position to the council and the commission as well as to the national parliaments, for which reason i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i naturally supported this resolution which allows the multiannual financial framework to be amended by transferring funds which for various reasons were not committed in 2014 to this year's budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are talking about a 'technical' adjustment, but it means giving breathing space to the implementation and implementation of the new programming of cohesion policy funds. i hope that the council will reverse its long-standing approach to austerity and give the union a budget worthy of it and sufficient to enable the european policies needed to revive our economies to be fully implemented.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the draft regulation amending regulation no 1311/2013 establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. with parliament's approval, the process is complete to start the new programming period for cohesion policy. as we know, the structural funds are part of the eu's larger investment policy and it is clear that it is of paramount importance that the resources are used effectively without unnecessary delay in order not to cause negative consequences for european citizens.
in writing. i have decided to vote against the amendment of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 on a matter of principle: in practice, the entire mff has not been realistically planned, to the extent that measures such as this require the european institutions to move funds to later years.
in writing. ‒ i expressed my support for the revision of the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014-2020 in order to transfer to subsequent years, in addition to the corresponding expenditure ceilings, also the allocations and amounts not used in 2014 for the structural funds, the cohesion fund, the european agricultural fund for rural development, the european maritime and fisheries fund, the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund. i am convinced that this budgetary manoeuvre will allow the pace of investment to be maintained in favour of growth and employment.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of amending the regulation on the financial framework for the period 2014-2020. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the former soviet union and the former soviet union. the delays in adoption have meant that over €20 billion has been blocked from being committed. it was therefore necessary to amend the financial framework regulation in order to allow the carry-over of unused allocations for the financial year 2014 to subsequent years. this will allow most of the appropriations for 2014 to be used in 2015 and a smaller part to be used in 2017. although we have managed to resolve such a delicate situation, it is still necessary to ensure that the new programme, which is marred by initial errors, does not entail delays or losses but can allow the necessary funds to be allocated without further problems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amending the multiannual financial framework because i believe the european commission's proposal is fair and sound. however, these continuous corrections to the mff reveal a fundamental weakness in the union's current financial structure which i hope will be thoroughly reformed with the mid-term review of the financial framework itself.
in writing. ‒ i believe that this amendment to the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 is appropriate. according to the regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014-2020, if certain programmes had been adopted after 1 january 2014, action could have been taken to amend the mff and reallocate the amount not used in 2014 to subsequent years. this is precisely what has happened and it has therefore been requested that more than eur 21 billion be carried over to the next few years from the structural and cohesion funds, the european agricultural fund for rural development, the european maritime and fisheries fund and the asylum, immigration and internal security fund because they were adopted late. i believe that this is a correct and acceptable choice, which has also been favourably evaluated in the committees, and that is why i wanted to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i share the views expressed in this report, which i consider to be well-balanced and well-developed, and for these reasons i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution on the centenary of the armenian genocide because i believe that, in order to never repeat the tragic mistakes of the past, it is fundamental to never forget about them, and the remembrance of the armenian genocide of 1915-1917 serves this purpose exactly. we remember it in order to prevent other genocides from happening in the future.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide. the massacre of one and a half million armenian christians by the ottoman empire between 1915 and 1917 can be defined as the first genocide of the twentieth century. the memory of the innocent victims of this genocide is therefore absolutely necessary to ensure that such a tragic event is not forgotten and that it does not happen again. that is why i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution commemorating the victims of the armenian genocide in a spirit of solidarity and justice, and stressing that the denial of the genocide is a continuation of the violence perpetuated against the ottoman armenians. the resolution adopted by parliament also has the merit of firmly condemning all crimes against humanity and genocide and of reaffirming that one of the main motivations of the movement for european unification and one of the founding values of the european union itself is the will to prevent the recurrence of wars and crimes against humanity.
in writing. ‒ as i said during the debate, this resolution on the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide is not an act of condemnation. it is a fitting tribute to our memory and a humble invitation to reconciliation. i hope that the turkish people will soon take a just and noble step towards reconciliation, so that peaceful relations can be reestablished between armenia and turkey and this wound that still divides them can finally be healed. we welcome the great commitment of civil society in this direction.
in writing. ‒ i am voting with conviction in favour of the resolution commemorating the centenary of the armenian genocide, and i am doing so recalling the words of the holy father who, without any reservations, declared the armenian genocide to be the first genocide of the modern era. in 1915 about one and a half million innocent armenians were massacred in the then ottoman empire. such atrocities must not be repeated, and that is why it is important to call things by their right names. at the same time, however, i join those who welcome the efforts that turkey has made and is making to harmonize relations with armenia in a spirit of reconciliation that promotes the search for truth and mutual respect. relations between the two countries must be normalized as soon as possible and we, as european citizens, must do our utmost to ensure that this happens, not by criminalizing turkey today for what has happened in the past, but by helping it to accept its past, to look at it again and to reconcile itself in depth with the armenian people. this is the way into europe.
in writing. ‒ on the eve of the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide, the european parliament decides to pay tribute to the armenian victims. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security forces are fully involved in the fight against terrorism. the ep also calls on turkey, a candidate country for accession to the european union, to respect and implement the obligations it has assumed in the field of cultural heritage protection. the group sent turkey and armenia to start a process of reconciliation and pacification leading to the normalisation of their relations. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken in favour of the introduction of a day dedicated to the commemoration of the armenian genocide, which this year marks the centenary of, because we should not be afraid to call things by their proper name. for this reason i share the words used by the holy father, who called it the first modern genocide. courage is needed to defend oppressed christians, wherever they may be. since, however, reason is never one-sided in history, it is necessary to shed light on the facts and the responsibilities, and to emphasize how those tragic events were the result of complex political plots that have their roots far back. the reconciliation i hope for should be achieved by an admission of guilt on both sides, and my intention in voting in favour of this resolution was to take a step in this direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide. the document reiterates the firm condemnation of all the incidents recognised as crimes against humanity and genocide, as well as of the various attempts at denial. the european union calls on turkey to respect its obligations to safeguard the armenian cultural heritage and to continue its efforts to achieve the final recognition of the crime of genocide perpetrated by the ottomans. the centenary is expected to make it possible, in particular, to strengthen the efforts made by turkey and the armenian people to achieve a speedier reconciliation, which would open the way to cross-border cooperation and economic integration between the parties. in this connection, it should be noted that the european union itself could benefit significantly from the normalization of relations between turkey and armenia, which are situated on the borders of our continent. finally, i welcome the proposal to establish a european day of remembrance of the genocides, to pay tribute to the victims of past crimes and to reaffirm the right of all peoples and nations to preserve their identity and dignity.
in writing. - bernard bruneteau has called the 20th century the century of genocide. not that there weren't exterminations in other eras. but only in the last century, the combined combination of nationalism and modernity, has given rise to that mass crime that plans and carries out the scientific annihilation of an entire group. on 24 april, we will mark the centenary of the beginning of the armenian genocide, the first example of this. what better occasion to call for the establishment of an international day of remembrance for genocide victims. pope francis also spoke with important words, calling everyone to their responsibilities, and reminding everyone of the barbarity of which the human being was capable in a civilized era such as that of the 20th century. it was not the last, stalin's soviet union, nazi germany and, after the second world war, the ethnic cleansing in the former yugoslavia, all to remain the most civilized europe. i would like to remind you, however, of rwanda, where a woman planned the most horrific of crimes against her own sex. the memory of this must always be kept alive in order to instill in the new generations the culture of respect for religious, cultural and political diversity. only then can we try to prevent what happened then from happening again.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the centenary of the armenian genocide to honour the memory of the one and a half million victims of the atrocities perpetrated during the first world war under the ottoman empire. the aim of this resolution is to keep alive the memory of what happened, so that the memory may promote a real resumption of diplomatic relations between the two countries and a definitive reconciliation between the turkish and armenian peoples. the commemoration of the centenary of the armenian genocide must not, however, be limited to memory; it must above all be a warning at a time in history when discrimination and religious persecution are still taking too many lives. the same atrocities suffered by armenian christians are today being inflicted on christians all over the world every day, and the recent massacre on the university campus in garissa is, unfortunately, a demonstration of this. it is the duty of the european union, as of the entire international community, to condemn any form of crime against humanity and to expose any attempt at religious denial and intolerance. i am convinced that the united voice of the european parliament and the words of pope francis in recent days can strengthen the commitment of europeans to interreligious dialogue and the coexistence of different peoples and cultures.
in writing. ‒ exactly a century ago, in 1915, the massacres and deportations of the armenian population began in the ottoman empire. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution recognising the armenian genocide because by this text the european union not only pays tribute to the memory of the one and a half million armenian victims but above all deplores and strongly condemns any attempt at denial.
in writing. ‒ the armenian genocide is a historical truth that cannot be denied, but rather must be recognized and remembered, so that certain horrors are not repeated. denial is the latest act of genocide and it is important that the european union today has spoken out in clear and courageous words condemning one of the dark pages of the 20th century that is too often forgotten. for these reasons i voted in favour of today's resolution, taking the opportunity also to reiterate that it is precisely the memory of what happened a hundred years ago that must lead us to concentrate all our efforts to put an end to all the persecutions that are being perpetrated today, first of all against christians. we can't change the past, but we can and we must change the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the anniversary of the armenian genocide, in the belief that the main objective to be pursued at present is to promote the improvement of bilateral relations between turkey and armenia. recognition of the tragedies of past injustices is a fundamental step in building stable relationships in the present. turkey should therefore officially acknowledge the mistakes made by the ottoman empire in order to usher in a new era of peace and friendship with the armenian people, in the spirit of a renewed spirit of mutual understanding.
in writing. ‒ with this vote, the house is remembering a tragic and immense extermination, the forgotten genocide of a people. the memory of over a million armenians killed in 1915 under the ottoman empire means taking the path of reconciliation. denying the memory is keeping alive what that pain caused. a century after those events, the time has come to heal this tragic wound and to open the way to genuine reconciliation between the armenian and turkish peoples. our european union was founded on the very desire to prevent war and crimes against humanity. an illness that, if left untreated, is likely to spread and spread. we are therefore calling on turkey to continue its efforts to come to terms with its past through a free and open debate. a key stage in the democratization process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the '100th anniversary of the armenian genocide'. on 24 april this year the whole world will remember the genocide of the armenian people committed by the hands of young turks during the years of the first world war. parliament called on turkey to respect and fully implement the legal obligations it has assumed. it is essential that armenia and turkey take advantage of the centenary of the genocide to renew and improve their diplomatic relations, with particular reference to economic integration and reconciliation between their peoples.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the anniversary of such a tragic and inhumane event should also be accompanied by a warning: we must prevent this massacre from happening again. the attitude of the turkish government towards the kurdish minority is a serious indication of segregation on the basis of ethnicity and is certainly not acceptable behaviour in a country which is a candidate for accession to the union. i would remind you that turkey receives almost one billion euros in pre-accession funds.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this resolution which commemorates the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide perpetrated by the ottoman authorities in 1915. one of the eu's founding values is the desire to prevent the recurrence of war and crimes against humanity in europe. we welcome president erdogan's recent statements on the recognition of the atrocities committed against the ottoman armenians, and consider them a first step in the right direction. we encourage turkey to use the commemoration of this centenary as an opportunity to continue its efforts to come to terms with its past and thus to open the way to a genuine reconciliation between the two peoples. we are convinced that only an open and free debate in turkish society on historical issues, including the armenian genocide, can foster the democratization process already under way. a mature democracy cannot be built on the basis of a denial of historical facts and responsibilities. we therefore call for the negotiation process with the european union to be used as an important catalyst to foster a more open and free debate on historical issues. we therefore call on the parties to normalize bilateral relations without preconditions in order to improve their mutual understanding.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the above resolution which calls on armenia and turkey to draw inspiration from examples of positive reconciliation, such as that between european nations, through the ratification and unconditional application of protocols on the establishment of diplomatic relations, the opening of borders and the improvement of relations, with particular reference to cross-border cooperation and economic integration.
in writing. ‒ considering that 2015 marks the centenary of the armenian genocide, and that the importance of keeping the memories of the past alive is essential as there can be no reconciliation without truth and remembrance, for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution on the centenary of the armenian genocide perpetrated by the ottoman authorities in 1915, which ended the existence of the armenian community historically living in the south-eastern part of the ottoman empire (today turkey), pays tribute to the memory of the one and a half million innocent armenian victims who were victims of atrocities during the first world war and encourages turkey to recognise the armenian genocide. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is of the utmost importance to condemn all forms of crimes against humanity and genocide, the timely prevention and effective punishment of which should be one of the key priorities of the international community and the european union, and to stress the importance of seizing this important opportunity offered by the commemoration of the centenary of the armenian genocide to pave the way for genuine reconciliation between the turkish and armenian peoples, and to acknowledge the measures taken by the present turkish government to improve the treatment of the remaining armenian minority.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the process of diplomatic normalisation that armenia and turkey started a few years ago, i believe that this could be an important step towards the two countries moving towards a path of good relations and possible reconciliation. i hope that careful work will be done on the armenian genocide, that the archives will be opened and that the tragic events of 100 years ago will be studied in a constructive spirit, even if the disconcerting reaction of turkish prime minister ahmet davutoglu to the pope's words does not give us much hope.
in writing. ‒ after pope francis' statements, a clash has erupted over the armenian issue. the european parliament has been asked to vote on the resolution by the european parliament on the situation in the former yugoslavia. we must call things by their right names and learn from past mistakes and prevent similar tragedies from happening again today.
in writing. ‒ we have adopted today a resolution recognising the armenian genocide, paying tribute to its victims, proposing the establishment of a european day of remembrance and deploring any attempt at denial. a hundred years ago the armenian people suffered what is remembered as the first genocide of the 20th century, in which one and a half million innocent people died, massacring and completely destroying this population. as the pope himself has said, remembering the victims is necessary, indeed, it is a duty, because where there is no memory, it means that evil still holds the wound open. i believe that all member states, in view of the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide, should legally recognise it and i hope that today's vote will encourage the european institutions to contribute further to its recognition.
in writing. - i did not intend to support the resolution under vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the occasion of the international roma day – anti-gypsyism in europe and eu recognition of the memorial day of the roma genocide during wwii, since i maintain that the discrimination against the roma ethnic group, both past and present, is unacceptable and we should treat them with the respect that they deserve.
in writing. ‒ i believe that commemorating crimes against humanity and serious human rights violations is fundamental to promoting the causes of peace, reconciliation, democracy and human rights in europe. at least half a million roma were exterminated by the third reich regime and its allies during world war ii. the resolution simply calls on the member states to officially recognize this genocide and to call for the establishment of a european day of remembrance for the victims of the genocide of the roma during the second world war.
in writing. ‒ the roma, estimated at between 10 and 12 million, are the largest ethnic minority in europe. although they have no state entity of their own, the roma contribute to europe as citizens and are often subject to anti-gypsyism, which is considered a form of racism. during the second world war, about 500,000 roma people died at the hands of the nazis. europe considers that the commemoration of crimes against humanity and violations of human rights is fundamental to the promotion of peace. it is therefore considered necessary to combat all forms of anti-gypsyism, as it is xenophobic, and to commemorate the roma victims of the second world war. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because the roma, who are the largest ethnic minority in europe, have different characteristics from other european minorities, which justify the adoption of specific measures at european level. it is important to remember, beyond populism, that during the second world war 500,000 roma were exterminated by the nazis. the recognition and commemoration of what this population has suffered is a first, symbolic step in the fight against anti-gypsyism. discrimination against roma, by which we mean people belonging to different but related groups, spread across europe, with different cultures and lifestyles, is incompatible with the values and principles of the european union and represents an obstacle to their integration. my intention in voting was to show that we are willing to open our arms to those who want to contribute to the advancement of our society, by respecting its rules and by participating in the forms and ways that best reconcile our laws and their customs and customs.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the motion for a resolution on the establishment of a day of remembrance for the roma genocide during the second world war. anti-gypsyism is still one of the main causes of discrimination and marginalization, especially against women, who are exposed to multiple and intersectoral discrimination, especially on the basis of their ethnic origin. i believe that every european citizen should have the right to participate fully in the development of society and enjoy equal access to education, employment, health care and housing. it is therefore necessary for all member states to adopt a comprehensive approach to integration and to combat all forms of discrimination in order to ensure that the fundamental values of the european union are upheld and respected.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the resolution marks a fundamental and non-derogable principle of civil life in europe which also disregards the same specific case: the protection of persons irrespective of race and ethnic origin, by eliminating all discrimination. in the case of the roma minority, creating fictitious 'good/bad' manichean divisions, with racial, cultural or living conditions as the only point of reference, is nothing less than political speculation of the lowest order, contrary to the basic principles of the union's founding charter. the policy of 'nomadic camps' has fuelled housing hardship to the point of becoming the precondition and cause of spatial marginality and social exclusion. the european union is not only a city of peace, but also a city of hope. we must go beyond the model and the system of nomadic camps. schools are also the main instrument of positive discrimination for children and adolescents: it is therefore a decisive factor in emancipation. the new european social fund can provide important economic support in these areas and we ask the commission to ensure that the regions implement the integration plans and meet the targets and objectives set.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution to put an end to discrimination, hate crimes and incitement to hatred against the roma and to call for the recognition of 2 august as the roma holocaust remembrance day, to commemorate the genocide of the roma during the second world war. any form of discrimination against a person must be condemned by the eu as incompatible with community rules and principles and as an obstacle to full social integration.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the resolution because these kinds of proposals are initiatives made for purely political purposes, used as instruments and do not take account of the priorities that europe has at this moment.
in writing. ‒ greater efforts are needed to end discrimination against hate crimes and incitement to hatred against roma, as such discrimination is incompatible with the values of the european union. the resolution also calls for 2 august to be recognised as roma holocaust remembrance day to commemorate all the victims of the auschwitz-birkenau massacre during the second world war. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ we believe that the genocide of the roma in europe during the second world war deserves full recognition, commensurate with the gravity of the crimes committed by the nazis and other regimes. we therefore express our deep concern at the resurgence of anti-gypsyism, which is manifested, inter alia, in anti-roma rhetoric and violent attacks throughout europe, which are incompatible with the norms and values of the european union and which constitute a serious obstacle to their successful social integration and to ensuring full respect for their human rights. we therefore call on the member states to effectively implement council directive 2000/43/ec of 29 june 2000 implementing the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin, in order to prevent and eliminate discrimination against roma, in particular in the areas of employment, education and access to housing. we support the establishment of a european day of remembrance for the victims of the genocide during the second world war and that this day should be called the european day of remembrance for the roma holocaust.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that discrimination is incompatible with the norms and values of the european union and constitutes a major obstacle to the successful social integration of minorities.
in writing. ‒ whereas the roma, with an estimated population of 10-12 million, are the largest ethnic minority in europe; whereas anti-gypsyism, the specific form of racism against the roma, is an ideology based on racial superiority, a form of dehumanization and institutional racism fed by historical discrimination; whereas anti-gypsyism is one of the main causes of discrimination and marginalisation of which the roma population has historically been a victim in many european countries; whereas many roma still live in abject poverty and suffer extreme levels of social exclusion and discrimination; whereas such discrimination may occur in society in general, in a context of increasing racism against roma, but also within women's communities on the grounds of their sex; whereas the commission communication of 5 april 2011 on an eu framework for national roma integration strategies calls on the member states to adopt or further develop a comprehensive approach to roma integration and to support a set of common objectives; i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ during the second world war, 500,000 roma were killed by the nazi regime and its allies, 23,000 were killed in the gas chambers of the zigeunerlager (gypsy camp) in auschwitz and in some countries over 80% of the roma population was exterminated. this initiative, which i voted for, launched by the s&d group and signed by all the political groups, solemnly recognises the genocide of the roma as a historical fact, supports the establishment of a european day of remembrance for the victims of the genocide of the roma which should be called 'european day of remembrance for the roma holocaust', calls on all states to officially recognise this genocide and other forms of persecution against the roma population and utterly condemns the fact that today the roma are still victims of racist and violent attacks. this recognition is crucial to combating anti-roma sentiment, which is still strong in europe, and to fostering the inclusion of the roma population in the eu, which has always been one of the s&d group's priorities. the institutions should follow the s&d group in making the fight against anti-zionism a top priority, by helping to overcome prejudice and forms of racism against the roma population, the largest minority group in europe.
in writing. i decided to vote against because i believe that europe should have other priorities than to want to establish a day of commemoration of the genocide of the roma during the second world war. the text also expressly requires that: 'reminds that roma are part of europe's shared culture and values, and therefore encourages member states and other european countries to address roma history through dialogue with citizens and young people.'
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the establishment of a european day of remembrance for the victims of the genocide of the roma during the second world war. it is estimated that at least 500 000 roma were exterminated by the nazis and other regimes and their allies during the second world war, and in some countries more than 80% of the roma population was exterminated. at least 23 000 roma were killed in the gas chambers of the zigeunerlager (gypsy camp) at auschwitz-birkenau during the second world war. furthermore, the genocide of roma by the nazis and other regimes and their allies during world war ii is still largely ignored and is therefore unknown to the general public and often not recognized or taught in schools, placing roma among the "ignored" victims of the genocide perpetrated during world war ii. since 2,897 roma, mainly women, children and elderly people, were killed in the auschwitz-birkenau camp between 2 and 3 august 1944, 2 august has been chosen by roma organisations as the day of commemoration of all roma victims of this genocide.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that all forms of discrimination must be fought and condemned with the necessary firmness. the roma people have suffered injuries, violence and discrimination for centuries. now is the time for change. the european union must be a bearer of civic values and memory, putting the horrors of the past behind it and looking to the future with respect and coexistence for all its citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the s&d group we are calling for a statement by the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, mrs federica mogherini, to discuss the situation in burundi following the candidacy of president nkurunziza for a third term. i would remind you that these days, as a result of this candidacy, which violates the arusha peace agreements, peace could be jeopardized throughout the great lakes region. so we're asking for a non-resolution statement on what's going on. see also protocol
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the time taken for road safety is closely linked to the reduction of the impact of accidents on the health and sometimes even the lives of the people involved. we therefore believe that the conclusion of the agreement on the ecall system for new passenger cars and light vehicles represents an important step forward for the protection of all european citizens. i thank mrs sehnalová and the italian presidency for their determination to pursue the objective of ensuring european legislation that raises road safety standards. in the eternal confrontation between privacy and security, and between the identification of ever-increasing standards and the needs of the manufacturing sector, which involves wide and diverse sectors of society, i believe that a fair compromise has been found in this case. i believe that this agreement is a significant example of the integrated, practical and citizen-friendly europe that we must develop more and more and i hope that the attempts of those who want to weaken it will be stopped by a rule that guarantees greater security for all european citizens.
i can only say that the efdd group did not feel it was necessary to intervene in the debate; i can only refer this to the house. the 'catch-the-eye' procedure
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ecall, together with other driving systems incorporating wireless and dect technologies, is a priority in road safety. the system is able to provide rapid assistance to motorists involved in collisions anywhere in the european union, and this speed will make the difference between saving the lives of hundreds or even thousands of people in europe every year. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. however, and in any case of paramount importance, respect for privacy and the careful collection and management by qualified bodies and not by private individuals of the mass of information on the mobility flows of each car owner remain. i believe that this data should be managed and rationalised to achieve traffic flow planning for smart cities.
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank the contributors to the debate for a very constructive dialogue, and it was good to have the opportunity to listen to all of the members who wished to speak on this topic. this debate certainly made it clear that there is overwhelming support for the e-call system and i am grateful for that support. i think overall that parliament has once again shown its strong support and its determination to realise the benefits of the e-call system, and it is certainly gratifying to witness such unity in general terms regarding road—safety issues. it is primarily about new technology being put in place during the manufacturing process in cars and vans to establish the precise location and the precise detail of the accident. it is not about personal details of any individual – and this regulation provides the balance and safeguards on privacy that many of you were concerned about and concentrates on helping save lives following on from the accident. of course accidents will always happen, unfortunately, due to driving behaviour, but no resources will be diverted, or should be diverted, by member states from road safety, due to the fact that this is a technology that is included in the manufacturing process. i know that ms ford was concerned about the economic cost to the consumer in relation to the installation of this new technology, but i would remind her that the eur 100 that she mentioned is at the upper end of the estimate, because key components such as gps systems or mobile phone antennae are now in many cars anyway, which brings down the costs substantially. i think it is a small price to pay to include this technology at the car manufacturing stage in order to help save lives. i wish to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs and members for an excellent deliberation in relation to this very important issue.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 28 april 2015. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. thanks to the excellent work of mrs olga sehnalová, the european union today has taken a step forward towards building a safer future for its citizens. from 31 march 2018, all vehicles will be equipped with the ecall safety system which will automatically alert the emergency services in the event of a major accident. even if the victim is unconscious, the system will inform the exact location of the accident so that rescuers can leave within minutes. the benefits of a timely response to an accident are many. the implementation of the ecall system will reduce these times by 50%. what does all this mean in practical terms? it means human lives. in 2014, approximately 26,000 lives were lost as a result of road traffic accidents. it has been estimated that with a time saving of 50%, the system and call will help save up to 2,500 lives each year. as regards the criticisms raised by some with regard to the respect for privacy and the processing of data held by the ecall system, the commission has given us strong assurances in this regard and the institutions will be vigilant to ensure that security requirements do not conflict with those of confidentiality of personal data.
the agenda includes the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the committee on the alcohol strategy, by alberto cirio, glenis willmott, marcus pretzell, josé inácio faria, younous omarjee, piernicola pedicini, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000008/2015 - b8-0108/2015).
chairman of the envi committee. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, with the resolution adopted by the envi committee, parliament intends to make a contribution to the new alcohol strategy, which may be useful in view of future proposals by the european commission to support the member states in their action to reduce the health, safety and social damage caused by alcohol abuse. i would first like to thank the seven co-sponsors for the excellent work they have done on the resolution and the oral question which preceded it. i believe that the final text, which was negotiated between the political groups on 360 amendments, reflects the position of the european parliament in a balanced way. i start from a premise, which is that our work has focused on preventing and reducing excessive and extreme patterns of consumption, thus making a clear distinction between responsible consumption and harmful consumption of alcohol. recalling that responsible drinking is compatible with a healthy lifestyle, we have focused on the subject of alcohol abuse and its harmful consequences. harmful alcohol use is still the third leading cause of predictable death and disease in europe and is a risk factor for over 60 chronic diseases. but alcohol abuse is linked to other problems, especially social ones, linked to the habits of young people, addiction, road accidents and some forms of violence, including domestic violence. tackling alcohol abuse must therefore remain a priority on the european political agenda, not just in terms of public health; we must start from the assumption that not all alcohol consumption has the same consequences, since it depends a great deal on habits, methods and the type of drink. the european union's alcohol strategy has proved effective in supporting member states' measures to reduce alcohol-related harm, and the work of the european alcohol and health forum has helped to develop concrete and measurable actions to reduce the harm caused by alcohol abuse at local level across the european union, but we need to do more, commissioner. in our resolution, we strongly urge the commission to immediately start work on the new eu alcohol strategy for 2016-2022, with the same objectives as the previous one, but with a better differentiation within consumption habits and behaviours and attitudes towards alcohol consumption itself, in order to reduce the harms related to abuse. the new strategy would also be a powerful tool for reducing health and social costs linked to the direct and indirect effects of alcohol-related harm and for helping member states to step up their efforts to develop policies and actions to promote healthy lifestyles and to inform citizens about the harmful effects of alcohol abuse. we therefore call on the commission, in full respect of the principles of subsidiarity and better regulation, to step up its efforts to improve on what has already been done and to fully achieve the objectives of this strategy. in the resolution we also call for a review of existing european legislation on the need to improve the information on alcohol available to consumers today, and stress the importance of clear, concise and effective information on the effects of alcohol consumption and the health risks. but we would like to ask the commission for more information on a specific point, namely the assessment of the effects of a possible adoption of labelling at european union level warning consumers about the dangers of the abuse of alcoholic beverages during pregnancy, for minors and when driving. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate that our aim is to make a valuable contribution to the commission in view of the adoption shortly of a new european strategy which can stimulate prevention, health promotion and education, reduce road accidents caused by drunk driving and make a better differentiation within consumption habits and behaviours and attitudes towards alcohol consumption with a clear distinction between responsible consumption and harmful consumption. these, commissioner, are the priorities expressed by the envi committee in its oral question and subsequent resolution.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i think this is an important moment because we are closing some of the work that we inherited from the previous legislature and that we have tried to update, also in keeping with the sensitivities of the new composition of the european parliament. on the one hand, a balanced solution was sought, because, while it is true that it is necessary to combat the damage caused by alcohol abuse, on the other hand we must not forget that europe is a large country, made up of 28 different countries, and that there is also wine in europe, and that to immediately link the wine-alcohol debate would be wrong in respect of the history, culture and economy of so many mediterranean european countries which have made and are making wine one of the main elements of their society, not only from a commercial point of view but also from the point of view of values, from the point of view of their own history. this document is a document which respects the requirements of the individual member states, sets out guidelines, but then leaves the freedom, without going to interfere too much in the autonomy of the individual member states and, on the other hand, recognizes - we consider this very important - that it is possible to have a correct lifestyle, therefore a healthy and balanced lifestyle with a correct consumption of alcohol. so this is a good document, and we believe and hope that there will be a broad consensus in this house.
answer to a blue-card question. this is the crux of our document, namely, on the one hand, obviously, especially as regards road safety, the damage that can be caused by alcohol abuse, on which we are going to be very strict and very tough, but on the other hand, let us not forget that there are so many small and mediumsized enterprises on which a strong economy of our europe is based, which we cannot penalise and above all we cannot allow the discourse on wine to be merged with the discourse on tobacco. when we talk about cigarettes, we are talking about something different, something harmful, when we talk about european wine, we are talking about something which can be perfectly compatible with a healthy lifestyle. we also have a couple of important amendments which we believe and hope that this house can really express its consent to, because we are talking about an area on which european civilization has built years, decades of its history.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we as consumer representatives have a duty to fight for the right to provide information on the contents of foodstuffs, whether it be wine, beer, meat or any other foodstuff. we therefore asked the commission to publish a new report on the labelling of alcoholic beverages, with information on the ingredient content and the corresponding nutritional value. we want the consumer to know, through the label, what substances are used in the production process of each alcoholic beverage he consumes. and yet some wine producers may add sugar to wine to increase its alcohol content without any obligation to declare it. sugar is priced far below concentrated must, with the result that the costs of natural fermentation are passed on to the final product and the consumer. however, there is no rule requiring european wine producers to declare the addition of sugar on the label. this would be a disservice to the winegrowers who are going the natural route and a disservice to the consumers who are not informed about the quality of what they are consuming. we therefore call on this parliament to take account of this important addition to the present resolution.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the good work done in the committee on the environment and public health has helped to bring a balanced resolution to the debate and the vote. a correct distinction should be made between alcohol abuse, which must be strongly combated first and foremost in the most vulnerable at risk, and the conscious and moderate consumption which is instead made in many diets in european countries and above all in the mediterranean, a unesco world heritage site. i had doubts, as many of my colleagues had, about the ability of some horizontal measures, such as the imposition of a minimum price for alcohol, to combat alcohol abuse. i thank the s&d group representative for the good compromise work she has done. but there is one more point that needs to be clarified, and i am anxious to stress this point today. a further distinction must be made between the advertising of alcoholic beverages, which should not be done with public money, and the many important positive programmes for the promotion, first of all of wine, of european excellence which the european union and the member states are carrying out with merit and which must be supported with public resources in the interests of our economy, our farmers and our quality producers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their work on the alcohol strategy. i agree with what many colleagues have said, because it concerns the importance of labelling, which is important as far as calories are concerned, which is important for indicating precisely the possible harms and effects of alcohol abuse, especially with regard to children. we have tabled an amendment on the use of added sucrose in wine, particularly as regards labelling. this is a practice that is taking place, until 2012 there were subsidies for those who used concentrated must, and that is going to create a condition of alteration of competition between those who use natural products and those who, instead, use artificial products that undermine the originality of the wine. we hope that this amendment will be supported.
member of the commission.– madam president, i have listened with great interest to the views expressed in this debate and i wish to thank the members for those views. i also wish to thank the rapporteurs for their work to date. it is clear from all of the contributions that we are like-minded, and that parliament and the commission share similar concerns on the need to address alcohol-related harm and the abuse of alcohol. let me underline that the commission intends to continue to support member states in their efforts to reduce alcohol-related harm and is keen to shape a framework of action to which all stakeholders can contribute. while it is the case that the previous strategy has expired, the work of member states and the commission is continuing. the commission considers that the objectives of the strategy and its implementing tools are still valid and is co-funding a three-year joint action programme with member states to reduce alcohol-related harm over the period 2014-2016. this involves all 28 member states, as well as norway, iceland and switzerland. the commission has been funding – and continues to fund – projects on alcohol and health under the health programme, for example by collaborating with the who and the oecd. i know that ms willmott, in specific terms, mentioned the issue of labelling and others did as well. as regards how labelling for alcoholic beverages could be addressed under eu food information legislation, the commission will issue its report as soon as possible. we are currently at the stage of preliminary discussions with member states. as you know, consultation is also very important and is required with stakeholders, including the role of families, educational experts and others. we will continue to keep in touch in terms of what the timescale is for the particular publication of the report, and on whether a legislative proposal can be brought forward at the same time.
in writing. in europe, more than 7% of premature deaths are due to alcohol-related problems. twenty-five percent of young men between the ages of 15 and 29 lose their lives because of drinking too much. so we have to do something. the european commission's coordination action can add value to national policies. more can be done to tackle drunk driving, effective data collection on alcohol consumption in all european countries, action on the online sale of hard liquor and on alcohol advertising to minors, on alcohol consumption in pregnancy and on binge drinking which is becoming more and more common among adolescents. however, a good compromise must also be found between the positions of countries such as great britain, where alcohol abuse is a serious problem of public health and order, and countries such as italy and belgium where there is a real culture of the consumption of quality wine and beer. the aim of the strategy is not to discourage moderate consumption but to support the adoption of healthy lifestyles by increasingly large sections of the population.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, exactly two years ago, 1 138 people died in the collapse of one of the largest textile complexes in the world, the rana plaza in dhaka, bangladesh. they made clothes that we wear every day, destined to be sold by big brands like benetton, camaieu, kappa, mango, walmart and many others. the clothing giants cannot escape their responsibility, they have no excuses. if you contract out work in bangladesh to certain companies and set certain prices, you cannot pretend not to know and be outraged when tragedies happen. the european union is not without blame either. the products made in bangladesh enter europe duty free under a special agreement and that is why multinational companies go there to produce, but these agreements must serve the development of poor countries, not the enrichment of multinational companies, and despite the fact that the minimum wage has been increased, industry in bangladesh still pays the lowest wages in the world, imposing the toughest conditions. since the disaster two years ago, the government, together with international organizations, has made progress in protecting workers' rights and increased inspections. in our resolution we wanted to encourage the progress made, but we cannot ignore the fact that, two years after the disaster, the conditions of those who produce clothing for the west in bangladesh are still shameful and that trade union freedom is still violently suppressed. if bangladesh and the world want to avoid another rana plaza, we need to do more and better. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i thank you for your question, and i would like to reiterate what i have already said, namely that we cannot allow this type of treaty to allow multinational companies, including italian ones and others, to commission work where it is cheaper and in shameful conditions, thanks to the fact that they can then import from us at zero duty. the purpose of these agreements is exactly the opposite: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if that doesn't happen, we've done something wrong.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, rana plaza, 24 months later, 1 138 lives lost afterwards, 2 000 injured afterwards. for years in bangladesh, there have been stories, stories that tell of years of exploitation, years of exploitation of children, 12-hour shifts, seven days a week, ridiculous wages, 40 dollars a month, well below the minimum wage for a decent life, stories of ordinary slavery. i wonder how many european citizens would feel the clothes they wear would be too tight if they knew how much tears and blood they are soaked in, that is not on the label and they should also start to feel itchiness, but above all to their consciences, not to their bodies. the agreements on fire prevention and safety are certainly useful steps, but if the funds needed to compensate victims are still half-empty, if our legislation still allows the large clothing groups to close their eyes and keep their wallets closed, then europe has not done its duty. it is time to give full trade union rights, to compensate and to prevent profit from crushing the right. crocodile hugs and tears abound because they cost nothing and companies that have done wrong have to pay.
on behalf of the efdd group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the baltic multiannual plan is the first such application and is therefore an important test bed for subsequent multiannual plans. it introduces new concepts such as an ecosystem approach, although not fully understood as the maximum sustainable yield. the european parliament, at least for the most part, seems to have absorbed this spirit, unlike the council, which seems to be facing new challenges but looking back, forgetting that it is precisely the attitude and the idea of considering fish stocks as if they were infinite that has led to the situation of a serious crisis of stocks and of fisheries itself. with tomorrow's vote we must firmly support the european parliament's position and show that the change in the common fisheries policy is real and that the objective of ending overfishing is possible. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i am grateful for the question, because i live on the adriatic, i am from rimini, i live on the adriatic coast, so i absolutely believe that the model we are starting to build and which we have used as a test bed in the baltic sea, should, gradually, be implemented with the multiannual plans also in other basins, in particular in the mediterranean where the situation of overfishing is very, very serious and also for the smaller but very fished basins, such as the adriatic.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the obligation to land is an important step. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing fleet is not displaced. it is a kind of revolution and that is why the debate on this draft regulation has been lively and also very complex. but in the end it turned into at least partly a lost opportunity. the result has unfortunately been less than expected, to the extent that it has distorted much of the meaning of the text and made it unlikely that it will be achieved. fisheries management is based on, and will increasingly be based on, accurate and complete scientific data. the exception which has been inserted in the regulation, which excludes small-scale fishing, which is 80% of the total when the catch is less than 50 kg, is therefore meaningless. i am aware of the difficulties this legislation will bring to fishermen, particularly traditional fishermen. despite this, i preferred an approach that was perhaps more gradual in time, but still with a clear objective, the total elimination of rejection.
in writing. it was of great importance to reach a compromise with the council in a timely manner in order to remove the regulatory obstacles to the application of the new landing obligation and to ensure full legal certainty for all fishermen concerned. i am very pleased that the council has accepted parliament's concerns about the implementation of this provision. i think that the decision to give fishermen two years to 'adapt' before any sanctions are imposed is right and widely accepted. in addition, the annual report which the commission will have to present on the basis of the information provided by the member states and the advisory councils will enable us to respond in a timely manner to the inevitable difficulties which fishermen and national authorities will have to face in complying with the new obligation. this will give us the opportunity to correct the regulations if they prove critical and to assess whether we are on the right track. finally, let us not forget that while the objective of the discard ban should not be called into question, the entire fisheries sector should be given adequate support so that this wasteful practice can be phased out without imposing excessive administrative burdens on fishermen and control bodies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the earthquake in nepal has killed at least 4 000 people and unfortunately there will be more. there are hundreds of tourists, among european citizens alone, who are still not giving and cannot give information about themselves. kathmandu has now become a tent city because of the devastation and there are still fears of further collapses and especially the first international aid must deal with an airport that is completely on the verge of collapse. the morgue is already completely over capacity and the experts can only say that the worst is yet to come. more than a million children are at risk, and the specter of epidemics is just around the corner. 6,500 are wounded, i remember. we must immediately coordinate efforts between all the member states and ensure the prompt return of our citizens, but even more importantly, concrete aid for reconstruction. i've said it before: i would like to see a minute of strong and united commitment from this parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the strengthening of copyright and privacy protection is a strategic element through which the full development of creative capacity and self-expression is achieved. these find their greatest expression in the cinema, where, more than in other artistic manifestations, the combination of numerous intellectual skills is realized. the essential economic aspect must be added to this definition. the sector contributes to economic growth, creates jobs and drives innovation in the european digital market. the artistic ecosystem therefore needs copyright and copyright must be a real guarantee of adequate remuneration for copyright holders, particularly authors. however, what i am most concerned about is the development, with the help of technology, of a true digital neorealism which needs increased protection, sometimes in terms of privacy, sometimes in terms of copyright, and sometimes both. i would like to see joint harmonization, such as a dual protection of copyright and privacy, and it would be appropriate to set up a committee to define the concept of a work of art in 2015.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my studies have enabled me to become fully aware of the problems facing those who wish to pursue a career in the audiovisual arts, such as the difficulty of accessing credit for cultural enterprises, to which the european commission has, in my view, provided ineffective answers so far. the european cinema and european productions must be protected, especially when national states, instead of protecting our production system, grant exemptions from the obligation to invest 10% of their income in the production of european works. in italy, for example, the communications authority granted a derogation of millions of euros to the american multinational company walt disney, which, to our chagrin, has found it impossible to find productions of sufficient quality to be broadcast on its channels, to the complete detriment of our creators and our workers. cinema has a social function, before commercial, and our task must be to protect and spread european culture by breaking down geo-blocking and committing ourselves to the creation of a fully-fledged digital single market.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, i too thank the rapporteur, mr torvalds, for the effort that has been made so far. unfortunately, however, we do not like this compromise at all, and it is difficult to call it a compromise because it was really an act of imposition by the council which did not want to take the slightest account of parliament's position and therefore of the position of the citizens of the european union. we have fought to defend all those companies that are an example of a circular economy, but perhaps the circular economy is no longer of interest to the european union. i am talking about those companies that use the waste of wood processing, for example, to produce furniture. this directive will encourage the use of this waste in the production of advanced biofuels. the council has irretrievably watered down parliament's proposal and now these companies will be without their raw material and will suffer unfair competition from the advanced biofuel industry. do you know how many companies i'm talking about? i'm talking about a lot of companies. i'm talking about companies that are closing down now. do you know how many more unemployed people will be because of this competition for raw materials? so we ask the commission in the revision legislation to move swiftly towards the decarbonisation of the transport sector, but above all to make the biofuel legislation really green and really sustainable. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue-card question. of course we need competition, but we do not need unfair competition. we're talking about companies that use this waste as raw material and therefore participate in a circular economy process, which is something that we should prioritize. it's a matter of priority. if we take away the raw material from these companies which are already dying because they are already struggling because of the crisis, but we also take away the raw material, we will have a deterioration in terms of employment and a deterioration in the quality of the type of companies we are going to promote.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the reforms of the fuel quality and renewable energy directives, the union is taking a step in the right direction, which is to build a greener and more sustainable future for this part of the world. it is important that in these months of negotiations the european parliament has stood out for having decidedly chosen the strong vision in favour of innovative biofuel rules and for having supported the european union's role in combating climate change and promoting the green economy. the text produced by the committee on the environment set very ambitious standards, and rightly so. the conclusion of the agreement with the council significantly reduces these standards. i would nevertheless like to thank mr torvalds for the way he has conducted his work and for the results that have been achieved. with these new rules, and in their mediations, europe is finally saying enough is enough to competition between food and fuel, and this is an important result in principle. the commission has also been working on a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. so it is an encouraging signal that is going in the right direction and that will stimulate many member states, myself included, to make investments that make sense of the subsequent return of parliament's work on these issues to achieve what was not possible today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after difficult negotiations we have reached agreement on iluc, known as indirect land use change, with the aim of capping greenhouse gas emissions caused by the increasing use of agricultural land for the cultivation of products for the production of biofuels. the aim of this dossier is to transition to biofuels that offer substantial greenhouse gas savings even when estimated and provisional emissions from indirect land use change are reported, while protecting existing investments by economic operators who have opted for first generation biofuels under the current european standards. i would of course like to thank the rapporteur, mr torvalds, for the work he has done for parliament, as well as the colleagues from the other political groups who have cooperated and worked on this dossier. but i must also thank the latvian presidency, as chairman of the envi committee, which negotiated with the presidency for cooperation during the negotiations, which enabled us to reach agreement on a joint text with the support of the commission. i do not go into detail as the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs have done, but i think that on the whole this is the only compromise possible. i am not saying that the council should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after years of heated debate on the future of biofuels in europe, the european parliament is finally about to vote on a dossier which is nevertheless an important signal in the fight against climate change and in the promotion of the green economy. real, smart, sustainable and inclusive growth cannot, as it is now, come from the production of so-called traditional biofuels, from food crops that use land that can be used instead to produce food, while new land is taken from forests by increasing co2. at the moment, given the strong resistance of the council, this is the best possible agreement, a step forward towards objectives which will have to be more ambitious in the future. the challenge for europe, also in view of the paris meeting, is to strengthen its leadership in the fight against climate change by promoting the green economy with fair and sustainable policies. without social equity and environmental sustainability, there is no way out of the crisis and there will be no new and good jobs.
in writing. the european union takes another step towards a greener and more sustainable future. in all these months of negotiations, the european parliament has stood out for its strong vision of innovative biofuel rules and for a stronger eu role in fighting climate change and promoting the green economy. the vote in the committee on the environment set a higher standard than that reached in the final agreement with the council, but i would like to thank mr torvalds once again for the way he has conducted his work and for the results achieved. with these new rules, europe is finally saying enough is enough to competition between food and fuel and putting an end to the distortive effects which have caused the prices of many food products in the poorest countries to rise, driven by easier profits from fuel. at the same time, there is a strong signal of encouragement for those investing in clean and sustainable energy technologies. many european countries, including italy, have already embarked on a virtuous path of innovation in the biofuels sector in recent months, and it is hoped that the new common regulatory framework can now be followed by other important measures under the energy union strategy.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs auken, for her hard work over the last few months. what we are bringing home today, after a long negotiation which was unblocked under the italian presidency, as has been mentioned, is a very important measure which goes beyond its specific merit, which is, as we have said, to oblige the member states to reduce the use of lightweight plastic bags, which are considered one of the factors of pollution in general and the main factor of marine pollution. but it does have a, let me say, symbolic aspect to it in my view. why would you do that? while european waste legislation has been set up on the "4rs" which are the basis for proper and effective sustainable management, the first "r", the reduction of waste generation, has not always worked. we have data in europe which, apart from the crisis, show us that the quantities of waste have on the contrary increased in recent years, partly because of the failure to implement serious prevention policies. this measure starts from there, that is, for the first time we are going to act on the first level of the waste hierarchy, we are going to tell the states that they must reduce the production of waste with a mandatory target by introducing a price. i now come to the other qualifying point of the provision. with this directive, the european union is providing an important tool to advance the circular economy, a new frontier in the sustainable economy. the new rules, through the reduction of waste, in this case lightweight plastic bags, are simultaneously promoting a more effective and efficient use of resources with a positive impact on the entire economy. we are in fact moving from the simple use and disposal of products, typical of a linear economy, to the need instead to find alternative solutions, which have less impact on resources and the environment and which also stimulate new green technologies, for example the green chemistry chain, to the production and research on organic matrix bags, one of the virtuous challenges of the green economy. i would like to conclude by saying that this is an important process which must go on, as we are committed to do as soon as possible with the new and more ambitious proposal which the commission will present on the waste cycle.
i would like to say that despite the unacceptable pressure from the lobbies representing manufacturers and distributors and despite the indifference of the commission, which the rapporteur has previously criticised, we have managed to reach an agreement which will make it possible, in the coming years, to reduce the consumption and use of lightweight plastic bags by acting in three directions which i would like to stress here: the commission has also proposed that the member states should set binding reduction targets, price action and a marketing ban. and we really do have to thank the rapporteur, margrete auken, for this achievement. reducing the overconsumption of plastic bags is a contribution to changing the way europe buys and consumes, in short, we are opposing the disposable europe. in fact, over the years we have been pushing as the eec for even stricter legislation than the agreement reached here, aimed at eliminating 50 per cent of plastic bags in three years and 100 per cent in five years. the text also does not contain a ban on oxo-biodegradable additives, which we continue to denounce as dangerous. in short, as is often the case with urgent environmental questions, the response time is still too long. at the same time, the compromise reached contains a fundamental element for us: the obligation for member states to monitor the state of implementation of the legislation on the basis of a common methodology and controls entrusted to the european commission. let me just say one thing in closing: i think it's crucial to involve the environmental movement in this monitoring. over the years we have learned how environmental justice conflicts are fundamental to a fairer europe.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the final stage of this decision-making process which has been much more difficult and cumbersome than i had imagined. i was very impressed at the time by the alarming data that emerged from the impact assessment of the measure, especially as regards the damage caused by plastic bags and their fragments to marine habitats and marine life, as has already been mentioned several times. i was equally struck, however, by the gravity and urgency of the phenomenon, and by the absolute inconsistency of the commission's proposal, which lacks any clear commitment to reducing shoppers. mr auken's difficult task was to bring some substance to the proposal and his work has resulted in a text which, imperfect and amenable to improvement, is probably the best that could be achieved, also in the light of the commission's hesitant and uncooperative attitude on this matter. for these reasons i confirm today that the italian delegation of the efdd group will support the motion to terminate the agreement concluded with the council.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about the circular economy and we are making a major step forward in reducing single-use plastic bags. member countries now have specific rules to implement. last year italy introduced a ban on the marketing and free distribution of plastic bags, with significant results, but more ambitious, truly traceable results are now needed in waste prevention and recycling policies, with appropriate governance tools and support for industrial research and extensive education actions. the dispersion of plastic waste has devastating effects on the terrestrial and, above all, the marine environment, as evidenced by the huge accumulation of floating trash, known as the "pacific trash vortex", which has been forming in the pacific ocean since the 1950s. estimates of its extent vary from two to thirty times the size of italy. acting now is not a discretionary choice, but it is an obligation because, it is always good to remember, children are watching us.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this is a great success for parliament, commissioner, because as you know, during the trilogue which i had the pleasure of chairing as chairman of the committee on the environment, we were able to reach an agreement with the rapporteur and the council. a deal that looks far. the commission has not always acted as a facilitator and you are well aware that there was a debate in committee whether to withdraw this proposal at the end or to keep it on the table as there are comments at the end of the text made by the commission on the applicability of the rule. however, it was certainly an important agreement reached by the co-legislators, as provided for in the current treaty of lisbon. we have acted in the interests of the environment by seeking the solution which some european countries have already adopted and which seems to be working. today we have targets on plastic bags, we have targets, we have new technologies and we ban and we push away those that don't seem to be the best for the environment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, reducing the consumption of lightweight plastic bags is a priority objective for the european union. the context in which this measure is being developed is worrying. in 2010, it was estimated that each european citizen used198 plastic bags, most of which are lightweight and not easily reusable. i believe that the agreement reached by parliament - and i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs auken, on her excellent work - represents a fundamental improvement on the commission proposal and should therefore be supported. the inclusion of mandatory reduction targets and the obligation to charge for plastic bags are measures that significantly strengthen community rules aimed at reducing the use of plastic bags. the text also introduces an obligation for member states to submit an annual report on the consumption of lightweight plastic bags 36 months after the entry into force of the legislation. this strengthens the existing reporting obligations and, consequently, the practical tools available to member states to monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of the measures taken.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome and support this proposal for a regulation, which finally goes in the direction of greater control of co2 emissions, including for the maritime sector which contributes as much as 4%, with a greater impact on port operations. as a spokesman, i receive many reports from ports near residential areas such as taranto, ancona or voltri, in the west of liguria, where noise pollution is added to environmental pollution. i remind you that one ship in port pollutes as much as a thousand cars with engine access to a minimum. we must work to promote controls, but also concrete and environmentally sustainable solutions such as electric wharves or the so-called 'cold ironing' which involves the use of only electric propulsion within port areas. in italy there are already legislative provisions requiring the construction of electrical connections for ships in berth. we must bring all european environmental standards up to the highest level without creating a series a and b port.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr faria, and my colleagues from the other political groups for their work on this dossier. shipping is a vital sector for the world economy, as over 80 per cent of goods are transported by ship. maritime transport is also the most energy-efficient and environmentally sustainable mode of transport of goods, as the co2 emissions required to transport one tonne of goods over one kilometre by sea are lower than those required for both road and air transport. however, in the last decade, we have seen a 48 percent increase in greenhouse gas emissions from shipping, which has contributed significantly to the pollution of our planet. today's vote, following an agreement reached in december following a major negotiation with the italian presidency, demonstrates once again the european parliament's strong focus on sustainability issues by establishing an eu system for monitoring, reporting and verifying co2 emissions from shipping as a basis to facilitate the setting of reduction targets at a later stage and for the application of a market-based measure, which could take the form of a contribution or target-based compensation fund, or an emissions trading scheme that will be able to ensure a reduction in co2 emissions from shipping. it's a step forward, and it's not the solution, but it's a step forward.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, international shipping remains the only mode of transport which is not included in the european union's commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, despite the fact that emissions from the shipping sector are a major contributor to both air pollution and climate change. the development of a european system for monitoring, reporting and verifying (mrv) co2 emissions from maritime transport is therefore essential. it can provide the basis on which europe can, or at least should, develop emission reduction policies for the maritime sector consistent with global policies on climate, air pollution and human health protection. the development of ambitious policies for reducing emissions in this area is all the more important in the light of the challenges facing the maritime sector in the coming years. in the future, world trade is expected to grow considerably due to the expected increase in population and it is therefore necessary and urgent to develop technologies and practices to be applied to fuel quality, emission reduction technologies and operational measures for ships.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this measure, the main purpose of which is to authorise the other eu member states to ratify the international convention on the rules of engagement of fishing vessel crews, since the union's exclusive competence in this matter has been established.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that the safety of seafarers is a priority and, therefore, member states should be encouraged to take part in this convention that aims at improving the standards of safety on fishing vessels.
in writing. ‒ today the european parliament took a step forward in protecting maritime workers, because this convention, which the eu is about to join, aims to ensure that staff working on board fishing vessels are qualified and fit for the job in a way that reduces safety and environmental risks. the fishing industry is a professional activity which is exposed to an exponential rate of accidents and serious injuries. the eu's accession to the international convention on the training and employment of seafarers is also a strong warning to member states to improve the application of labour law and employment guarantees to seafarers. because certain guarantees are essential and it is not acceptable that legal certainty in terms of contracts and wages, for example, should be recognised in such a different way from country to country and from sector to sector. we therefore welcome the outcome of this vote, in the hope that the working conditions in the fisheries sector will become uniform in the member states and more attractive to those who want to work in this sector.
in writing. - i voted yes. the convention provides for the issue of certificates of competency for the exercise of the profession of seafarer on board fishing vessels, in line with the minimum requirements introduced at imo level.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision authorising member states to sign and/or ratify, in the interest of the european union, the international maritime organisation's 1995 international convention on standards for the training of crews of fishing vessels, the granting of patents and the guards. the objective of the convention is to ensure that the personnel working on board fishing vessels are qualified and fit for the job, in order to minimise potential risks to the safety of persons or to the marine environment. the convention requires that staff have a minimum knowledge of specific subjects and have been on board a vessel for a minimum period of time, thus introducing a balanced level of operation in the fisheries sector, promoting vocational training and contributing to the reduction of the accident rate. the commission has already made a number of recommendations to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the international convention on standards for the training, licensing and watchkeeping of vessels was adopted by the imo in london in 1995 in the presence of 74 governments, including those of the 22 current eu member states. so far, only four member states (denmark, spain, latvia and lithuania) have ratified the stcw-f convention. the objective of the convention is to ensure that personnel operating on board fishing vessels are qualified and fit for the job, so that potential risks to the safety of persons and property at sea or to the marine environment are minimised during operations on board fishing vessels.
in writing. ‒ by this decision, the council authorises the eu member states to ratify the international convention on standards for fishing vessel crews, adopted by the international maritime organisation (imo) on 7 july 1995 in london, in the presence of 74 countries, 22 of which are eu member states. so far, only four member states have ratified the convention (spain, denmark, latvia and lithuania). the aim is to ensure that personnel working on board fishing vessels are qualified (and hold an official certificate attesting to this) and fit for the job (following a medical examination), so that potential risks to the safety of persons and property at sea or to the marine environment are minimised during operations on board fishing vessels. the convention also requires that staff have a minimum knowledge of specific subjects and have been on board a ship for a minimum period. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i agree with the objective of ensuring that the personnel working on board fishing vessels are qualified and fit for the job, so that potential risks to the safety of persons and property at sea or to the marine environment are minimised during operations on board. i therefore believe that, in view of the thousands of fatal accidents that occur every year, in order to reduce the high accident rate, the staff must have a minimum knowledge of specific subjects and must have exercised functions with less responsibility on board a ship for a minimum period.
in writing. ‒ adequate training of crews on board fishing vessels is essential to ensure the safety of seafarers on board. in this context, the international convention on standards for the training, licensing and watchkeeping of fishing vessels clearly understands this need. in the light of these considerations, i have decided to vote in favour of the proposal in order to encourage the member states to ratify this convention, in accordance with the exclusive competences of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because i believe it is essential to ensure that the personnel working on board fishing vessels are qualified, including through an official certificate attesting to this, and fit for the job, so that potential risks to the safety of persons and property or to the marine environment are minimised. finally, it is required that staff have a minimum knowledge of specific subjects and have been on board a ship for a minimum period. the aim is to establish and maintain a balanced operational level in the fisheries sector, by promoting vocational training and contributing to reducing the accident rate. fishing is a professional activity with a very high accident rate and it is estimated that 24 000 fatal accidents occur in each year of activity. this is why professionalism and suitability must be encouraged.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the international convention on standards for the training of crews of fishing vessels is to ensure that the personnel working on board vessels are qualified and fit for the job. in this way, potential risks to the safety of persons and property at sea will be minimised during operations on board. member states cannot ratify the stcw-f convention without the authorisation of the european union as the matter falls within the exclusive competence of the union. i voted in favour of this convention in order to encourage the member states to take all the necessary steps for ratification without delay.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the stcw-f/95 convention which was drawn up by the imo in 1995.
in writing. ‒ as also reiterated in the aets judgment of the court of justice, member states cannot ratify the international maritime organisation's 1995 international convention on the standards relating to the training, licensing and watchkeeping of fishing vessels without specific authorisation from the eu. the convention, which was concluded in 1995, contains rules aimed at improving the safety conditions of all persons working on board fishing vessels. i therefore voted in favour of this recommendation in order to make it possible for the states to ratify this important instrument as soon as possible.
in writing. i welcome the recommendation on the draft council decision authorising the member states to sign and ratify, in the interests of the european union, the international maritime organisation's 1995 international convention on standards for the training, certification and watchkeeping of fishing vessels. i share the encouragement of the member states, which are currently only four in number, to start ratifying the stcw convention as soon as possible, not only because it is perfectly in line with the union's exclusive powers in the area of recognition of professions exercised by eu citizens on board fishing vessels, but above all because it is born of the need to ensure maximum safety on board and to reduce as much as possible the rate of accidents during fishing activities, through the adoption of international safety recommendations and adequate and shared minimum vocational training.
in writing. ‒ as a shadow rapporteur for the s&d group, i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision authorising member states to sign and ratify, in the interest of the european union, the 1995 imo international convention on the rules relating to the training of crews of fishing vessels, the granting of patents and the guard, because i am convinced of the need to put an end as soon as possible to the current situation which has created distortions in the eu. the decision was necessary because the parts of the convention concerning the mutual recognition of professional qualifications of certain categories of personnel on board fishing vessels fall within the exclusive competence of the union and affect the provisions of the treaty and secondary union law, in particular directive 2005/36/ec of the european parliament and of the council. hence the authorization of the council to accede to the convention. the aim is to encourage member states (not necessarily coastal states) with fishing vessels flying their flag, with seagoing fishing vessels calling at ports falling within the scope of the convention, or with training establishments for fishing vessel crews which have not acceded to the convention, to take the necessary measures to deposit their instruments of accession to the convention as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the recommendation concerning the convention of the international maritime organisation on the rules for the training of crews of fishing vessels, the granting of licences and the guard. one of the objectives is to ensure that the personnel on board are fit to perform the duties with all the necessary precautions and minimum experience to minimise the possibility of risk to safety. it should be noted that fishing is a professional activity with a still very high accident rate and that each year there are about 24 000 fatal accidents. this requires increased efforts to ensure the safety of those working on board these vessels.
in writing. ‒ on 7 july 1995, the international maritime organisation (imo) adopted, in the presence of the governments of 22 eu member states, the international convention on standards for the training, licensing and watchkeeping of fishing vessels. the aim of this agreement is to ensure that fishing vessels are manned by highly qualified personnel capable of adequately managing potential risks to the safety of persons and property at sea. since the european union is not in a legal position to ratify the stcw-f convention, it is necessary to extend the scope of the stcw-f convention by adopting applicable regulations. i voted in favour of the ribeiro report because i think it calls upon the commission to legislate adequately on this matter.
in writing. ‒ we call on all member states to sign and ratify this convention, which aims to ensure that personnel working on board fishing vessels are qualified and fit for the job, so as to reduce potential risks to the safety of persons and property at sea and to the marine environment. we believe it is important to promote a high level of operational performance in the fisheries sector, by supporting the need for adequate training of crews, in order to contribute to reducing the accident rate. in addition to training, which is one of the pillars of maritime safety, minimum working conditions and safety on board must also be ensured in relation to the prevention of accidents at work. for this reason, harmonisation of the rules for all member states is necessary by reference to international safety recommendations. in the light of these observations, we consider it appropriate to extend the scope of the stcw-f convention or, at a minimum, to adopt new regulatory provisions applicable to vessels of less than 24 metres in length at eu level; we therefore call on the commission to legislate on this matter.
in writing. ‒ the international convention on standards for crews of fishing vessels (abbreviated as the 'stcw-f convention') was drawn up by the international maritime organisation (imo) in 1995, signed by 22 european countries including italy and subsequently ratified by four european countries (denmark, latvia, lithuania and spain). the convention, which entered into force on 29 september 2012, provides for rules for the issuing of certificates of competency to exercise the profession of seafarer on board fishing vessels, in line with the minimum requirements introduced at imo level. as the main objective of the procedure is to authorize the other eu member states to ratify, and as the union's exclusive competence in this area has been established in the meantime, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the international convention on standards for the training, certification and watchkeeping of ships was adopted by the international maritime organisation (imo) on 7 july 1995 in london in the presence of 74 governments, including those of the 22 current eu member states. the stcw-f convention has so far been ratified by 4 member states (spain, denmark, latvia and lithuania). given the need to establish a minimum level of training in the union, it is appropriate to extend the scope of the stcw-f convention or at least to adopt regulatory provisions applicable to vessels of less than 24 metres in length at union level, and to urge the commission to legislate on this matter. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ as statistics confirm, fishing is a highly accident-prone occupation. for this reason, the authorization given by the european union to the member states to ratify the stcw-f convention is a very important step for the whole fisheries sector. the implementation of the convention will bring about a balanced level of operation in the fisheries sector, improve vocational training and contribute to the reduction of accidents at work. it should also be stressed that this will not increase the training costs of the member states, because it will be financially supported through the european maritime and fisheries fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation as it is in line with the objective of the stcw-f convention, namely to ensure that personnel working on board fishing vessels are qualified (and hold an official certificate attesting to this) and fit for the job (following medical examination), so that potential risks to the safety of persons and property at sea or to the marine environment are minimised during operations on board fishing vessels. following the aets judgment of the court of justice on external competence, member states cannot ratify the stcw-f convention without the authorisation of the european union as the provisions on the recognition of regulated professions exercised by eu citizens working on board fishing vessels restrict the exercise of the european union's exclusive competence in this area. i therefore supported the decision to authorise member states to ratify the stcw-f convention in accordance with the european union's exclusive competence for the recognition of regulated professions exercised by union citizens on board fishing vessels.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the international convention on standards for crew members on fishing vessels as that convention, which entered into force on 29 september 2012, provides for rules for the issue of certificates of competency for the exercise of the profession of seafarer on board fishing vessels in line with the minimum requirements introduced at imo level. the main objective of the procedure is to authorise the other eu member states to ratify, as the union's exclusive competence in the matter has been established.
in writing. ‒ in today's vote, parliament gave its approval to the proposal for a council decision authorising member states to ratify the international convention on the rules relating to the training of crews of fishing vessels, the granting of patents and the guarding of vessels. i have decided to vote in favour of this recommendation because i believe that it is necessary to try to minimise the potential risks to the safety of persons and property on board fishing vessels or to the marine environment by ensuring that the staff are properly qualified and fit for the job. it is sufficient to recall that fishing is a professional activity with a very high accident rate and that according to some estimates, fatal accidents amount to about 24 000 per year. i therefore hope that the national authorities will now proceed without delay to ratify the convention in such a way as to contribute to reducing the number of accidents and making fishing activities better and above all safer.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this measure because the late adoption of the cohesion policy regulations for the period 2014-2020 made it impossible to adopt all the operational programmes in a timely manner. in practice, the entire mff has not been realistically planned, to the extent that, in order to deal with their own inefficiency, the european institutions have to use such corrective manoeuvres to shift funds to later years.
in writing. ‒ i voted ʽyesʼ to this report on the revision of the multiannual financial framework since it is of paramount importance that the unused appropriations for the year 2014 be transferred to subsequent years in order to contribute to the creation of jobs and growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the measure. the entire mff has not been realistically planned, to the extent that, with measures such as this, the european institutions have to move funds to later years.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 2/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, section iii commission. the report underlines that it is essential for european citizens and for the economies of all member states that unused appropriations for 2014 can be carried over to subsequent years in order to contribute to job creation and growth, avoid unfair treatment of certain member states, regions and operational programmes, and accelerate the implementation and achievement of cohesion policy objectives. i consider the report to be very timely as it underlines that the decision to transfer most of the unused appropriations in 2014 to 2015 may require a flexible approach by the commission to address any issues arising from a heterogeneous financial profile, which could result in unused commitment appropriations in the 2014-2020 period.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amending budget, which regulates the fact that appropriations not used during an annual financial year are carried over to subsequent financial years. this allows for a proper adjustment of the budget and aims to avoid an accumulation of unpaid payments at the end of the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. ‒ the measure in question amends the 2015 budget following the approval by the european parliament at its previous plenary session of the allocation to the 2015 budget of funds not committed in 2014. as noted in the opinion of the committee on regional development, the late adoption of the cohesion policy regulations for the period 2014-2020 made it impossible to adopt all operational programmes in a timely manner. the project aims to transfer almost all programmes for economic and social cohesion to 2015, with the exception of the erdf contributions to cross-border programmes under the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) which are instead transferred to 2017. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of approving draft amending budget no 2/2015, as i agree to the transfer of most of the previously unused appropriations to the 2015 budget and to the transfer of smaller appropriations to the draft budgets for the financial years 2016-2017. for 2015 alone, the draft amendment proposes an increase of eur 16476,4 million in commitment appropriations for the different funds under shared management. it is of vital importance both for european citizens and for the economies of all member states that unused appropriations each year can be carried over to subsequent years to help create jobs and growth. i hope, however, that the commission will carry out its monitoring activities to ensure that the postponement of these appropriations from year to year does not have a negative impact on the payment of invoices. if we can get around this dangerous obstacle, we will be able to create a virtuous circle which will inject new life into the economies of the member states.
in writing. ‒ in view of the delay in adopting certain regulations and operational programmes relating to the european funds, i considered it appropriate to vote in favour of amending the financial framework for the years 2014-2020 by transferring unused resources in 2014 to the current budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i agree that funds not used in 2014 due to the delay in the adoption of some programmes should be reallocated to subsequent years in the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. i therefore think it is important that there is a real possibility of reallocating these funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the revision which operates at the beginning of the multiannual financial framework. in the event of late adoption of rules or programmes under shared management, unused allocations shall be carried over to subsequent years and the annual management expenditure shall be aligned. draft amending budget no 2/2015 provides for the transfer of the majority of the unused appropriations to the 2015 budget and a smaller part will be allocated to the financial years 2016 and 2017. the balance between the principles of budgetary predictability and flexibility is conducive to the interests of the european citizens. it is strategic to know the availability of the framework in advance and then to act with flexibility as a safeguard clause. in order not to create a 'europa system' loophole in the management of programmes, it is useful to avoid a negative impact in the long term by closely monitoring their implementation. the effectiveness and efficiency of the financing of cohesion policies, which are intended to create jobs and, more generally, to support economic growth in the european union, are at stake.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this amendment to the mff, given the late adoption of the cohesion policy regulations for the period 2014-20, which made it impossible to adopt all the operational programmes in time.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the report by mr gardiazabal rubial on draft amending budget no 2/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015. i think it is important to recall, as the report does, that it is essential for european citizens and for the economies of all member states that the unused appropriations for the financial year 2014 can be carried over to subsequent financial years in order to contribute to job creation and growth, and this especially to accelerate the implementation and achievement of the objectives of cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on the council's position on draft amending budget no 2/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015. it is right to recall the crucial importance of the european structural and investment funds and their programmes, which are a driver of growth and employment in the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it is very important for european citizens and member states to be able to ensure that unused appropriations for the financial year 2014 can be carried over to subsequent financial years in order to contribute to job creation and growth.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 2/2015 provides for the transfer of the majority of the unused resources for the 2015 budget to the drafts for the 2016 and 2017 budgets. this operation will help to accelerate the implementation of the objectives of cohesion policy while avoiding the concentration of payments at the end of the current multiannual financial framework period. the report by mrs rubial sums up this need well, and that is why i have decided to support it by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ with this report we take note of draft amending budget no 2/2015 presented by the commission and we want to underline how crucial it is for all european citizens and for the economies of all member states that the unused appropriations for the financial year 2014 can be carried over to subsequent years in order to contribute to job creation and growth. we cannot but express our concern about the long-term impact that this one-year delay will have on the overall situation of payments. we therefore take this opportunity once again to call on the commission to monitor implementation more closely and to do everything possible to avoid non-payment of commitments, by submitting appropriate proposals to adjust the annual levels of payment appropriations if necessary, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the mff regulation. it is necessary to reach agreement on this draft amending budget in good time in order to allow the rapid adoption of all the programmes concerned.
in writing. ‒ the late adoption of the 2014-2020 cohesion policy regulations has made it impossible to adopt all operational programmes in a timely manner. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary discipline and the budgetary discipline. in view of the enormous importance of the european funds at this time of economic and financial crisis for italy and for europe as a whole, i have given my approval to draft amending budget no 2/2015 amending the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014-2020.
in writing. ‒ the commission considers it essential that the adoption of the rdp no 2/2015 as soon as possible is a necessary condition for the approval of programmes, including cohesion policy programmes, for which it was not possible to use the appropriations in 2014. recalls in this regard the importance of the european structural and investment funds and their programmes as a crucial source of investment, growth and employment in the member states; welcomes the overall logic of the proposal to carry over to 2015 the unused appropriations in 2014 for subheading 1b economic, social and territorial cohesion, in order to ensure equal treatment between the programmes adopted under the carry-over procedure and those that should be adopted in 2015 on the basis of the revision of the mff and draft amending budget no 2/2015. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. the revision of the multiannual financial framework is a standard procedure at the beginning of each mff period and, consequently, the draft amending budget must be aligned with the revision. it is in the interest of european citizens and the economies of all member states that unused appropriations for the financial year 2014 can be carried over to subsequent financial years in order to contribute to the economic objectives of the member states and to the possible creation of jobs and growth. i hope, however, that this one-year delay will not have any effect on the overall situation of payments. the commission must therefore monitor and make appropriate proposals to adjust, if necessary, the annual levels of payment appropriations, as provided for in the mff regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft amending budget because i believe that it is essential for the citizens of europe and for the economies of all member states that the unused appropriations for the financial year 2014 can be carried over to subsequent years in order to contribute to job creation and growth.
in writing. i have decided to vote against this on a matter of principle: in practice, the entire multiannual financial framework has not been realistically planned, to the extent that, with measures such as this, the european institutions have to shift funds to later years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft amendment to the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014-2020. i consider this correction urgent and necessary to adopt in 2015 the programmes and appropriations not used in 2014 for the structural funds, the cohesion fund, the european agricultural fund for rural development, the european maritime and fisheries fund, the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund. i am convinced that in the present economic situation this budgetary manoeuvre meets the need to maintain the pace of investment for growth and employment.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has voted in favour of the measure to introduce the e-call emergency device on all cars registered after 31 march 2018. this instrument will make it possible to make an automatic call directly to the nearest emergency services in the event of an accident. more than 25 000 people died on european roads in 2014, and at least 10% of them could be saved thanks to the e-call service. the text also respects the privacy of the persons involved. the automatic call will indicate to the rescuers the information relating to the vehicle only, which can be sent to third parties if the person concerned gives his consent. for the reasons stated above, i voted in favour of the imco committee's measure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the introduction of ecall devices on new car models from 2018. in view of the number of accidents and the heavy toll of human lives lost, 25 700 in europe in 2014 alone, it is important to introduce innovations that simplify and speed up the arrival of rescue services in the event of major accidents across the eu. this will be a free public service which, thanks to new technologies, will automatically call 112 and inform it of the location and size of the accident. the measure rightly provides for a step to ensure data protection, so that the device can only be traced from the time of the accident and in any case provides only the information necessary for better rescue operations. without consent, data may under no circumstances be disclosed to third parties and must be deleted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation since the deployment of the ecall in-vehicle system will substantially improve safety on european roads. i strongly believe that making our roads safer should be one of the main goals of the european union.
in writing. ‒ road accidents kill 28 000 people in europe every year. the ecall project is an important intervention to reduce deaths by making rescue more efficient. i therefore vote in favour of extending the project to heavy vehicles. the introduction of ecall should be accompanied by the full introduction of 112 as the single emergency number, which is still missing in italy despite european sanctions. in this respect, given the importance of the subject for the safety of individuals, the commission should take a stronger political initiative towards italy together with initiatives to spread the knowledge of the single number among european citizens, which is still very low.
in writing. - i voted yes. the purpose is to activate an ecall system with an automatic emergency call to the number 112 in the event of a serious accident. the text also seems to take due account of the protection of the privacy of motorists, access to the provision of the service by independent operators and compatibility with the galileo and egnos satellite navigation systems.
in writing. ‒ today i voted against the amendment proposed by the alde group to the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning type-approval requirements for the development of the 112-based ecall in-vehicle system and amending directive 2007/46/ec. the amendment provided for the deactivation of the system by a simplified manual procedure, making it too easy to use it optionally at the expense of safety. as regards the ecall in-vehicle system, i believe that it, together with other driving systems integrating wireless and ict technologies, represents a priority in road safety as it can provide rapid assistance to drivers involved in a collision anywhere in the european union.
in writing. ‒ the approved text introduces type-approval requirements for the development of the ecall in-vehicle system and amends directive 2007/46/ec to that end. this system should enable each vehicle to make automatic emergency calls in the event of an accident and thus aims to reduce, through rapid intervention, the number of victims and serious injuries, as well as the cost of calling the emergency services. in general, the system thus devised should reduce all the inconveniences caused by road accidents. parliament is trying to introduce profiles in this area to protect the privacy of citizens.
in writing. ‒ the measure in question concerns the introduction into the ec type-approval system of motor vehicles of the obligation to install an on-board ecall system, i.e. a mechanism allowing the automatic call of 112 in the event of an accident. the system brings important benefits such as reducing fatalities and the severity of injuries sustained, facilitating rescue services and improving the safety of rescue teams. i therefore decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation for two main reasons. the first, but less important, is the endorsement of the work done for years now by the rapporteur, with the shadow group of rapporteurs, on behalf of parliament and the council, with the various presidencies that have followed. the second, and more substantial, is that i find it sacrosanct to use the technology that is now available at a reasonable cost to save lives. i have heard of several cases of people who have been in traffic accidents and who could have been saved (or had less serious consequences) if the rescuers had arrived earlier. well , then . the technology allows for location, automatically initiating calls to rescue and sending invaluable information. of course, there is a privacy issue, but i believe that the right to health and saving lives is much more important. i will, however, be vigilant when the regulation comes into force to ensure that there are no distortions in its application.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on second reading by mrs olga sehnalová on the development of the ecall in-vehicle system. the benefits of such a system are manifold and have been proven by extensive studies, including: the commission has already taken steps to reduce the number of fatalities and serious injuries, to reduce traffic congestion, to provide all necessary emergency services in good time and to eliminate the sos convoys along the motorways. the proposal to install an ecall facility on all eu motor vehicles will enable emergency vehicles to respond promptly to emergencies wherever they arise within the union's borders. the system will help reduce the fragmentation of services and the market and facilitate the free and safe movement of european citizens. i would remind you, however, that this system will in no way replace road safety education, especially among young people, who must know the road traffic code and be aware of the behaviour to be adopted in urban and extra-urban contexts.
in writing. ‒ the ecall in-vehicle system is a major innovation for the transport sector. these new emergency call devices will have to be installed on all new models of cars and light vans by 31 march 2018 and will be able to automatically alert rescue services in the event of a road accident. the information provided will enable the type and size of the rescue operation to be identified immediately, enabling rescuers to reach the scene more quickly. in addition, it is estimated that ecall will reduce the number of road deaths by about 10% per year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the ecall emergency system will be able to automatically alert emergency services in the event of a road accident, improving both road safety and the speed of rescue.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the system which aims to activate the ecall system by automatically calling 112 in the event of a major accident.
in writing. ‒ the ecall system, which has already been approved by the european parliament at first reading, is a major breakthrough in protecting the safety of hundreds of thousands of european citizens travelling by car. i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading so that we can get an effective regulation on type approval requirements for the development of the system adopted as soon as possible.
in writing. in 2014, around 25 700 people died in road accidents in europe. this is down slightly (1%) on 2013, but there is still a long way to go to achieve full road safety. the road safety guidelines 2011/2020 programme is one of the instruments that the union intends to use to promote effective prevention actions: i therefore welcome and welcome the proposal to equip new types of cars with the ecall safety system, which in the event of an accident will send an alert with the exact location of its location to 112, for a sudden intervention and immediate rescue, with a transition phase by 2018.
in writing. ‒ i do not support the recommendation for second reading on the council position with regard to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning type-approval requirements for the development of the 112-based ecall in-vehicle system and amending directive 2007/46/ec.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the development of the ecall in-vehicle system, as i believe it is a valuable tool for increasing the possibility of saving lives of road accident victims.
in writing. ‒ we express our full and strong support for this proposal to introduce an on-board ecall system as a requirement for the ec type-approval of motor vehicles. this system, which is being installed in new types of cars and light vehicles, will be able to provide an automatic emergency call to the number 112 in the event of a serious accident. this call will provide a minimum set of data such as the type of vehicle, its location and the direction of travel which will allow and facilitate rapid intervention by rescue vehicles. we believe that improving road safety is essential in order to reduce the increasing number of fatal accidents throughout europe and to facilitate the work of rescue teams and services. the development of a single system at european level is a concrete step forward towards the security of all european citizens: the protection of their privacy and the protection of their personal data will be ensured by the non-traceability of the vehicle and the absence of constant monitoring under normal ecall conditions.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to introduce an obligation to install an ecall in-vehicle system in the ec type-approval system for motor vehicles. in the event of a serious accident, this system will automatically forward an emergency call to the number 112 which will provide the operators with a minimum set of data, such as the type of vehicle, its location and the direction of travel, which will allow and facilitate rapid intervention by rescue vehicles. according to official ecall statistics, it is estimated that full integration of the system into cars in eu member states will save up to 2 500 lives each year, as well as reducing the severity of injuries caused by road accidents by 10-15%. for these reasons i thought it appropriate to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the council's position at first reading (05130/3/2015 c8-0063/2015) and the opinion of the european economic and social committee of 19 september 2013, i am voting no.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution introducing an ecall system for our cars, compulsory and free of charge, to help and ensure the safety of european citizens. this device will not only lead to a reduction in the time required for intervention in road accidents, but will consequently lead to more immediate treatment of emergencies and thus to a reduction in road casualties. from march 2018, every new car will be equipped with such a device which, connected to the digital navigation service automatically in case of need, will send a distress signal with the details of the road accident to the emergency number 112, active throughout europe. the device will help to reduce road fatalities, which has always been a priority for this parliament. the speed with which we respond to emergency calls could save some 2 500 lives a year. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the large majority vote on the proposal to introduce an on-board ecall system as an obligation in the ec type-approval system for motor vehicles. this improves road safety and significantly reduces the number of fatalities and injuries caused by road accidents. at the same time, it will facilitate rescue services and enable any user to send an emergency call from his vehicle. in addition, the possibility for the user to use other emergency systems in addition to those provided by the ecall system has been introduced in the regulation, ensuring an even higher level of safety.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation to introduce type-approval requirements for the development of the 112-based ecall system amending directive 2007/46/ec, as this legislation represents a significant increase in safety and consumer protection as well as in the progress of the internal market.
in writing. i am in favour of the text, which is the result of the agreement between the ep, the commission and the council, which provides for the introduction of an on-board ecall system linked to the 112 service. that regulation lays down the type-approval requirements for the ecall system which will become mandatory for new models of passenger cars and light commercial vehicles from 31 march 2018. the purpose is to activate the ecall system with an automatic emergency call to the number 112 in the event of a serious accident. some vehicle categories have been exempted and the text seems to take due account of the protection of drivers' privacy, access to the provision of the service by independent operators and compatibility with the galileo and egnos satellite navigation systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the obligation to install the ecall in-vehicle system in newly-homologated cars because this proposal makes it possible to protect the safety of citizens on the roads more effectively through immediate first aid. the report also calls for the establishment of a european safety net for road traffic accidents. i am sure that this system, which automatically forwards an emergency call to 112 in the event of a serious accident, will make a significant contribution to saving many lives.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the draft regulation to equip all new vehicles with the ecall emergency device, which will make traveling on european roads safer, saving an estimated 2 500 lives every year. from 31 march 2018, all new cars and light commercial vehicles will be equipped with the ecall emergency device, a technology that automatically alerts the emergency services in the event of a road accident by making an emergency call to the number 112. the device sends information about the accident (type of vehicle, fuel used, time of accident, exact location, number of passengers) to the rescue services, allowing a considerable reduction in the response time of the rescue services, which will be able to reach the accident site faster and carry out rescue operations. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of personal data in the event of a serious accident at work. parliament has in fact inserted a clause under which the ecall in-vehicle system will not be traceable before an accident occurs, but will only transmit the minimum information on the accident at the time it occurs.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has repeatedly stressed that reducing road deaths and injuries is its priority. today's vote proposes the introduction of new emergency call devices, which can automatically alert the emergency services in the event of a road accident. these devices will have to be installed on all new models of cars and light vans by 31 march 2018.
in writing. ‒ today in strasbourg we approved by a very large majority a draft regulation on ecall emergency devices, which can automatically alert rescue services in the event of a road accident. the ecall in-vehicle system uses technology that automatically makes an emergency call to the number 112 in the event of a serious road accident. this will enable the type and size of the rescue operation needed, the exact location of the accident, to be known immediately, thus enabling rescuers to reach the scene more quickly and save lives, reduce the severity of injuries and the cost of traffic jams. road accidents in the eu cost 25 700 lives in 2014 alone, a figure which, thanks to the installation of the new ecall devices, could be reduced by around 10% per year, helping to improve road safety in all 28 member states.
in writing. the agreement reached between parliament and the council on the directive governing the ecall system is undoubtedly positive news. the commission will therefore be able to proceed swiftly with the implementation of this system, which will be installed in all vehicles and will automatically contact the nearest emergency centre in the event of an accident, providing data such as the location and type of vehicle and allowing for more targeted and faster rescue. however, despite assurances from the commission, many doubts were raised about the effective protection of users' privacy and sensitive data. i therefore voted in favour of the proposed amendment, which was intended to ensure that users could regulate the activation of the service and thus the submission of personal data.
in writing. - i voted against this measure: the biofuel bubble was created by the eu imposing mandatory quotas for "organic" production for ecological and climate purposes. to deflate it, it would have been enough to abolish these quotas. instead, pressure from industry has prevailed. the commission has therefore been able to understand the intricate formulae for calculating the iluc factor and the very complicated mechanism for the transition to so-called advanced or second generation biofuels. the proposals in the text therefore miss an opportunity to tackle at the root the problem of the environmental and economic unsustainability of biofuels from agricultural crops.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i voted against the torvalds report, despite the great work and efforts made by the rapporteur in recent months, because i believe that the compromise reached does not go in the direction of making biofuel legislation truly sustainable. it also does not protect our industries which are really focusing on the circular economy, such as the panel and furniture industries, which traditionally use wood processing waste and wood waste, but which will have increasing difficulties in obtaining raw materials because of this directive. in my view, it is a mistake not to ensure proper recognition of the principle of cascading use of biomass (use, reuse, recycling and only finally energy use of wood), so as to encourage the energy use of only wood that can no longer be used for other industrial directions.
in writing. ‒ i supported this recommendation since i believe that the development of advanced biofuels is of key importance for both the creation of jobs and growth and the reaching of the goal of a greener europe in terms of energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the measure. the opportunity to address the root cause of the environmental and economic unsustainability of biofuels from so-called conventional or first generation crops, of which indirect land deforestation change - in other words, deforestation, the taking of agricultural land for non-food production and land grabbing - is the most obvious negative impact, has been lost.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the proposal to accelerate the transition from first generation biofuels, derived from agricultural crops, to more advanced second generation biofuels, produced from certain types of waste, residues and new sources such as algae. the need for this is justified by the many criticisms of first-generation biofuels, derived from agricultural crops, which are accused of causing indirect emissions linked to land use change ('indirect land use change'), since the expansion of cultivated land at the expense of forests leads to an increase in greenhouse gases. first generation biofuels are also accused of affecting food security and land rights of people, as the demand for land for their production is leading to a land grab race, especially in african countries. the demand for food for the production of biofuels is also considered to be responsible for the increase in biofuel prices. for all these reasons, i wonder whether the regulation that has been adopted is ambitious enough. we had much higher targets, both in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from first-generation biofuels and in terms of technological progress through greater promotion of second-generation biofuels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of parliament's second reading position which, with reference to the directive on the quality of fuels and renewable energy, introduces improvements in terms of increased investment in renewable sources and energy efficiency.
in writing. ‒ the commission's proposed measure aims to start the transition to a biofuels strategy that produces substantial greenhouse gas emission reductions when indirect land-use change emissions are also taken into account. considering directives 2009/28/ec and 98/70/ec which provide for the achievement of the 10% share of renewable energy in the transport sector, respectively, and the binding 6% reduction of the emissions of gaseous fuels from road and non-road vehicles, and considering that the measure also contains the indications for achieving these results, i considered that i would vote for some significant amendments to the measure positively and others negatively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive, which i had the opportunity to examine in the envi committee, of which i am a member. it is very important to take steps to reduce the environmental impact of cars, these tools that are now indispensable in the organization of our lives. it is not possible to think of reducing co2 levels by reducing the distance travelled by each of us, but it is possible to expect that the fuel in our car tanks will be more environmentally friendly, more sustainable in the long term and, above all, less polluting. that is the direction the directive is going in, and it is in that spirit that i have supported it.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of amending the fuel quality directive and the renewable energy directive. the commission's proposal to start the transition to a biofuel strategy that produces substantial reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, also taking into account emissions associated with indirect land use change, is fully acceptable. such a reduction would ensure that europe not only achieves the targets set in the europe 2020 strategy, but also has the possibility to determine a long-term investment perspective, through support for innovation in sustainable biofuels and other tools for decarbonisation of the transport sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i think it is unsatisfactory, but that more efforts are needed to achieve results that can be shared.
in writing. the widespread use of fuels of plant origin, also promoted by directive 2009/28/ec on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, has led to the development of industrial chains with a heavy impact on the fragile ecosystems of primary forests and has encouraged the abandonment of food production for more profitable energy-related production. to prevent these perverse effects from continuing, m5s has worked to reduce the mandatory blending rates of biofuels, as well as promoting the introduction of environmental and social sustainability concepts for their production. i have decided to vote against the final text of the measure, as we did not find the consensus we hoped for.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the directive because the eu's objective must be to find a biofuels strategy that produces substantial reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, also taking into account emissions associated with indirect land-use change. a competitive europe, as far as sustainable fuels are concerned, means both investment and employment and sustainability and respect for the environment.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr torvalds' report, which concludes a long negotiating phase on a strategic issue. with these new rules, europe is finally saying enough is enough to competition between food and fuel and putting an end to the distortive effects which have caused the prices of many food products in the poorest countries to rise, driven by easier profits from fuel. at the same time, there is a strong signal of encouragement for those investing in clean and sustainable energy technologies.
in writing. ‒ i have expressed my support for the recommendation for the second reading on the fuel quality directive and the renewable energy directive. european environmental legislation is a key instrument for achieving the binding target of reducing the greenhouse gas intensity of fuels by 6% by 2020. in particular, biofuels have a significant effect in terms of greenhouse gas emissions and indirect land-use change. i therefore support the call for a 6% limit on the share of conventional biofuels contributing to the objectives of directives 2009/28/ec and 98/70/ec and actions to improve the environmental performance of biofuel production processes, in particular for new plants. these forecasts are aimed at improving environmental protection without sacrificing the existing installations and investments already made. i also agree with the aim of targeting the advanced biofuels market and the call to include indirect land use change factors in the monitoring and reporting obligations laid down in the two directives. a long-term strategy for reducing transport pollution is needed to enable europe to be at the forefront of the fight against pollution while maintaining its technological leadership in sustainable fuels.
in writing. i would first like to thank the rapporteur, all the colleagues who have worked on this dossier, the presidency of the council and the european commission for the agreement reached on iluc. the directive aims to stop competition between bioenergy and food production, which threatens food security by changing the use of agricultural land. but there was also a need to protect the investments already made by those economic operators who have opted for first generation biofuels. with the text adopted today, we are calling for a cap on first generation biofuels and binding energy consumption targets to be met by advanced biofuels by 2020, for a strategy that creates a long-term perspective for environmental protection, food sustainability and to support innovation in sustainable biofuels.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the recommendation for second reading on the council position on the quality of petrol and diesel fuel and directive 2009/28/ec on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources. it is very important to achieve a 10% share of renewable energy in transport by 2020 and to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions intensity of fuels for road transport and non-road mobile machinery by 6% by 2020. improved performance linked to greater efficiency and less pollution would lead to a positive trend which should not be underestimated. supporting the development of biofuels is becoming an important point in achieving these targets for 2020.
in writing. ‒ in october 2012, the european union adopted directive 2009/28/ec on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, which sets a binding target of achieving a 10% share of renewable energy in transport by 2020 through a 6% reduction in the greenhouse gas emission intensity of fuels for road transport and non-road mobile machinery by 2020. however, directives 2009/28/ec and 98/70/ec lack a long-term perspective and it is therefore necessary to examine tools and measures for a comprehensive and technology-neutral approach to promoting emission reductions and energy efficiency in transport for a post-2020 strategy. i voted in favour of the torvalds report, which decided to table amendments to stress the need for a longer-term strategy to attract investment to europe.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the commission proposal, which we welcome, is to start the transition to a biofuel strategy that produces substantial reductions in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. to this end, we believe that a more stringent limit of 6% should be introduced on the share of conventional biofuels which can contribute to the objectives of the two directives in question. on the other hand, however, we believe that failure to address the effects of indirect land use change would undermine the eu's climate objectives in the transport sector. in this case, the methodology for estimating indirect land-use change factors should be fully reviewed, also in the light of the adaptation to technical and scientific progress. in addition, in order to create a long-term perspective for investment and support innovation in sustainable biofuels and other tools for decarbonisation of the transport sector, it is necessary to examine tools and measures for an increasingly holistic and technology-neutral approach.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the final text proposed by the eu council on the fuel quality directive and the renewable energy directive. the main purpose of the directive is to initiate the transition from conventional biofuels to biofuels that offer substantial greenhouse gas savings: the so-called 'second generation or advanced biofuels'. the directive also establishes a clear legislative framework for the production of biofuels, protecting existing investments in the sector.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the position of parliament and the council at first reading and the recommendation for second reading by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i have voted against.
in writing. ‒ it should be noted that the objectives of the two directives are: to achieve a 10% share of renewable energy in the transport sector by 2020 and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from fuels used in road transport and non-road mobile machinery by 6% by 2020. in order to have a long-term perspective for investment and to support innovation in sustainable biofuels and other transport decarbonisation tools, a comprehensive and technology-neutral approach to promoting emission reductions and energy efficiency in transport for a post-2020 strategy is needed. that is why it is important that there is a long-term strategy that can bring significant investment into europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation at second reading as it is in line with the objective of the commission's proposal, presented in october 2012, to start the transition towards a biofuels strategy that produces substantial reductions in greenhouse gas emissions when also taking into account emissions associated with indirect land-use change. proposals to limit the contribution of conventional biofuels to the achievement of the targets set out in directive 2009/28/ec, to improve the greenhouse gas performance of biofuel production processes by increasing the greenhouse gas reduction threshold for new installations, while protecting installations already in operation on 1 july 2014, and to encourage greater market penetration of advanced biofuels, allowing them to contribute more to the targets set out in directive 2009/28/ec than conventional biofuels, are welcome.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the revision of the biofuels legislation, which will help reduce co2 emissions from transport and accelerate the transition to cleaner biofuels. first generation biofuels, produced mainly from cereals, have proved to be counterproductive in the fight against climate change: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the vote today, the result of a tough compromise with the council, provides for a ceiling on the production of biofuels derived from agricultural crops: in the context of the 10% renewable energy target in transport by 2020, first generation biofuels should account for no more than 7% of total energy consumption in transport, compared to the 5% proposed by the commission and supported by the s&d group. innovation for the production of second generation biofuels (for example from certain types of waste and from new sources such as algae) is also promoted, for which member states will have to set a national target for the share of innovative biofuels in total transport consumption.
in writing. ‒ in the vast majority of cases, biofuels are neither environmentally friendly nor sustainable. three problems: put pressure on remaining natural ecosystems, from which new arable land is obtained: but swamps, forests or grasslands store carbon in the subsoil and in plant biomass. their conversion into fields and plantations releases climate-altering gases into the atmosphere (iluc, indirect land use change impact); biofuels from food crops (such as maize) put the car's fuel tank in competition with the stomachs of the poor; the production of biofuels requires fossil fuels, used both for agricultural machinery and for the production of chemical fertilizers and pesticides: in view of this, co2 emissions from the use of biofuels can be quite similar to those of diesel and petrol and the eroei (energy return on energy investment) is minimal or negative. i have voted in favour of the amendments in favour of advanced biofuels and non-food crops; the commission is also supporting those aimed at reducing the pressure of biofuels on food crops. i have said no to amendments which are contrary to the principles set out above and to those which open the way to safeguarding the investments of the 'business as usual' biofuels. the climate and the land are priceless.
in writing. ‒ to create a long-term perspective for investment and support innovation in sustainable biofuels and other transport decarbonisation tools, it is necessary to examine tools and measures for a comprehensive and technology-neutral approach to promoting emission reductions and energy efficiency in transport. today's vote underlines the need for a longer-term strategy to attract investment to europe.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the directives on fuel quality and renewable energy. the two directives now provide a positive framework for ensuring the sustainable use of biofuels in transport. i think that limiting the share of biofuels to 7% for the 10% renewable energy target in transport is a relevant and necessary measure and i welcome the provisions that promote the use of advanced biofuels. i would like to conclude by recalling the need to take account of the indirect impact of the use of land for biofuel production, which could undermine efforts to control greenhouse gas emissions and raise the cost of agri-foodstuffs.
in writing. ‒ i voted yes to this recommendation because reducing the consumption of plastic carrier bags would be a big step forward towards a society more respectful of the environment.
in writing. - my position is favorable. the commission proposal put at risk the biodegradable bag sector, in which italian industry is at the forefront. the text agreed at second reading avoids this danger by combining the requirements of environmental protection and public health.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation for the second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 94/62/ec as regards the reduction of the use of lightweight plastic carrier bags. the text adopted has the merit of including mandatory reduction targets and the obligation to charge for plastic bags, measures which significantly strengthen community rules aimed at reducing the use of plastic bags. the text also introduces an obligation for member states to submit an annual report on the annual consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags 36 months after the entry into force of the legislation. this strengthens the existing reporting obligations and, consequently, the practical tools available to member states to monitor the effectiveness of the measures taken. i believe that the agreement reached by parliament represents a substantial improvement on the commission's initial proposal and that is why i supported it.
in writing. ‒ following negotiations between the european parliament and the council, the european commission's proposal has been improved by requiring member states to ensure a reduction in the consumption of plastic bags. for the first time in 40 years of european waste legislation, there will finally be binding eu-wide measures to reduce waste generation. we voted yes.
in writing. ‒ after lengthy negotiations with the council, agreement was finally reached and a final vote was held on the amendment of the directive to reduce the consumption of plastic bags. the introduction of obligations for states to reduce the use of plastic bags will help to protect the environment, especially the marine environment. if you consider that the amount of plastic particles in our oceans is greater than the amount of plankton, you get an idea of the gravity of the phenomenon and the need to intervene for a more rational consumption and to find eco-friendly alternatives. this will certainly encourage the development of products with a lower impact on the surrounding environment and the search for new less polluting materials. the final text could have been more ambitious, but i consider it a good compromise or at least the best possible one at this stage. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the directive on the reduction of the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags requires member states to either (1) take measures to ensure that the level of annual consumption does not exceed, on average, 90 lightweight plastic carrier bags per person by the end of 2019 and not more than 40 lightweight plastic carrier bags per person by 2025 or (2) ensure that, by the end of 2018, plastic carrier bags are no longer provided free of charge at the point of sale of goods or products, unless other equally effective instruments are implemented. in order to assess the effectiveness of the reduction measures, a monitoring system is provided for, which requires member states, after 36 months from entry into force, to submit an annual report on the annual consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags based on a common methodology to be adopted by the commission within 12 months. in addition, the commission is required to set specifications for the labelling of biodegradable and compostable plastic bags. the last point to be made is that the measures provided for in the directive are binding. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive because i think it is acceptable that people want to prevent and reduce the impact of packaging and packaging waste on the environment. the context in which this measure is being developed is worrying: in 2010, it was estimated that each european citizen used as many as 198 plastic bags per year, most of which were lightweight and not easily reusable. the use of plastic bags with a thickness of less than 50 microns, which are much less reused than thicker plastic bags, generates a considerable amount of waste, which is reduced by the application of this directive. the text also introduces an obligation for member states to submit an annual report on the consumption of lightweight plastic bags 36 months after the entry into force of the legislation. in this way, the results are monitored to check and evaluate the effectiveness of the measures taken and to question their validity if they do not meet expectations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amending directive 94/62/ec on the reduction of the use of lightweight plastic carrier bags, considering that the provisions introduced are effective in achieving the objectives set. in this case, the text asks the states to make a choice between the following two obligations: the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the application of this regulation, including the rules on the application of the provisions of this regulation, and shall take all necessary measures to ensure that the application of this regulation is implemented. i am particularly pleased that for the first time in 40 years of european waste legislation, it has finally been possible to introduce binding measures against member states, a sign of a stronger and more determined commitment by the union to regulating certain aspects of this sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i firmly believe that we must move towards a strong reduction in the use of the most polluting plastic bags.
in writing. ‒ the directive we are voting on will limit the consumption of non-biodegradable single-use plastic bags, so as to reduce the huge amount that ends up in the waste cycle every day or dispersed into the environment and waterways and aquatic ecosystems, where it remains for many years. the adoption of this directive is important because it provides for the possibility for member states to impose national bans or reduction targets for the consumption of bags, alongside or as an alternative to the imposition of a price to discourage their use. member states will have the choice of taking measures to reduce the average annual consumption of non-biodegradable plastic carrier bags per citizen to 90 by 2019 and 40 by 2025 or to ensure that by 2018 the bags are no longer provided to consumers free of charge in supermarkets and shops: another important step in protecting our environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendment to the european directive on the reduction of the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags. the european parliament has greatly improved the original proposal of the european commission and the agreement that has been reached takes this into account significantly. the text adopted today will, among other things, allow those member states which wish to set more ambitious targets than the common european ones to do so by means of national restrictions. this aspect is particularly important for our country, helping to close a long dispute in which italy was the target of an infringement procedure, with the "guilt" of having been at the forefront of the production of plastic bags that are virtuous from an environmental point of view. but more generally, the proposal adopted today by parliament at second reading has the merit of establishing a new legal framework for a more ambitious european common policy on the treatment of plastic bags in order to preserve the environment and biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ billions of plastic bags end up in nature every year as untreated waste. i strongly supported this proposal which obliges member states to make a sustained reduction in the consumption of lightweight plastic bags. european countries will have the choice of taking measures to reduce the average consumption of plastic bags to 90 bags per citizen by the end of 2019 and to 40 by the end of 2025, or to ensure that no plastic bags are delivered free of charge by the end of 2018.
in writing. with the latest move in the plenary, we have reached the final stage of the negotiations on the directive to limit the use of plastic shopping bags. the negotiations were much more difficult than anyone could have imagined, even considering that the commission had drawn up an accompanying document with alarming data, especially as regards the damage caused by plastic bags and their fragments to marine habitats and fauna. i was struck, given the gravity and urgency of the phenomenon, to find the commission's original proposal completely out of line, with no clear-cut commitment to reducing shoppers. the difficult task of mr auken was to bring some substance to the proposal and, thanks to his work, a text has emerged which, imperfect and amenable to improvement, is probably the best that could be achieved, also in the light of the commission's hesitant and uncooperative attitude on this dossier, and it is for this reason that i have decided to vote against the motion opposing the closure of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the auken report significantly improves the european commission's proposal by requiring member states to ensure a reduction in the consumption of lightweight plastic bags. the directive will provide for binding measures at eu level to reduce waste generation, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the text agreed at second reading which avoids risks to companies in the sector, while at the same time combining the needs of environmental protection and public health.
in writing. i thank mr auken and my s&d colleagues in the committee on the environment for the result achieved. the commission proposal has been significantly improved by requiring member states to ensure a sustained reduction in the consumption of lightweight plastic bags: for the first time in 40 years of european waste legislation, binding eu-wide measures will be introduced to reduce waste generation. this is a very important example of good european practice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution on the council's position with a view to adopting the directive on the reduction of the use of lightweight plastic carrier bags. reducing the use and consumption of plastic bags is an issue that affects all european citizens and can make a real contribution to achieving europe's objectives in the fight against pollution and environmental protection. i am very pleased that the introduction of the obligation for member states to ensure a sustained reduction in the consumption of lightweight plastic bags is a welcome step, because it is the first time that binding european waste rules are being introduced. the decision to leave member states a fair amount of flexibility in how to implement this obligation, limiting personal consumption of plastic bags to 90 bags per person per year by 2019 and 40 bags by 2025, or permanently eliminating the free supply of plastic bags in stores of goods and products. i also welcome the requirement to set technical specifications for the labelling of biodegradable and compostable plastic bags to avoid misuse and misleading practices, as well as the particular attention paid to oxo-degradable bags and ultra-lightweight material.
in writing. ‒ i do not support the recommendation for second reading on the council's position on the use of lightweight plastic bags. as stated by the european parliament, in accordance with article 30 of the interinstitutional agreement, it is for the co-legislators to decide whether an impact assessment is to be carried out before the adoption of any substantive amendments. while the commission's efforts are appreciated, criticism is that these issues have already been adequately addressed in the legislative process.
in writing. ‒ we cannot but welcome this amendment, following negotiations between parliament and the council, which has significantly improved the commission's original proposal by requiring member states to ensure a sustained reduction in the consumption of lightweight plastic bags. for the first time in 40 years of european waste legislation, binding eu-wide measures will be introduced to reduce waste generation. in order to assess the effectiveness of the reduction measures, we also called for the introduction of new monitoring measures which require member states to submit an annual report on the annual consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags.
in writing. ‒ the proposal amends directive 94/62/ec by requiring member states to take measures to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastic bags. the text provides in particular for the member states to choose between two obligations: the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the use of the plastic carrier bags referred to in paragraph 1 of this article. in the light of the above, i have supported the report because i believe it represents the right way forward to prevent the production of waste and thus mitigate the overall environmental impact by promoting a more efficient use of resources.
in writing. ‒ given that oxo-degradable plastic is used specifically for the production of plastic bags, it is absolutely appropriate to provide legally binding monitoring measures in the context of an amendment to the packaging directive as regards plastic bags, rather than referring the matter to the uncertain follow-up of the commission's green paper on plastic waste. for these reasons i have voted against.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the resolution on reducing the use of lightweight plastic bags was adopted by a very large majority. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new directive on the protection of the environment against the emission of gaseous pollutants from diesel engines. i hope that this will lead to greater public awareness of sustainable consumption with reduced waste and positive environmental outcomes.
in writing. ‒ finally, we should be able to drastically reduce the number of plastic bags made of lightweight material, which are often not reused and represent a huge environmental cost, because they are difficult to destroy and cause serious damage to the environment. small daily gestures could have great benefits.
in writing. i have decided to vote against the rejection proposal because i am in favour of the text agreed at second reading between the council and parliament because it avoids the danger of jeopardising the biodegradable bags sector, in which the italian chemical industry is at the forefront, combining the needs of environmental protection and public health.
in writing. ‒ i am proud that my country was the first in europe to adopt legislation to reduce the per capita consumption of lightweight plastic bags. i would like to remind you that in italy, since 2011, the law has been in force prohibiting the sale of non-biodegradable plastic bags. i think that the agreement reached between parliament and the council gives the member states a fair amount of leeway to take different measures depending on the environmental impact, the compostability and the intended use of plastic bags. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of introducing new rules to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastic bags in the eu. under the new legislation, member states will be able to choose between two options: decide whether to limit the average consumption per capita to 90 bags by the end of 2019 and subsequently to 40 bags by 2025; or, to establish a price system for the bags. these rules are favourable to italy, which banned lightweight bags in 2011 and opened the way to the use of biodegradable bags, thus becoming a leader in the sector. this is an important measure, reflecting the 92% of eu citizens who believe that it is necessary to reduce the consumption of plastic bags (source: eurobarometer). these have a devastating impact on the environment: an estimated 8 million plastic carrier bags are dumped every year in the eu, ending up in rivers, lakes and seas, where they cause long-term pollution by the pollutant particles they release into the water, seriously altering ecosystems. since such pollution also endangers the safety of the food chain, it constitutes a threat to human health: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of consumers against the risks of chemical agents in foodstuffs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement reached with the council on the adoption of the directive amending directive 94/62/ec as regards the reduction of the use of lightweight plastic carrier bags. the proposal introduces important, but improving, binding elements for member states to reduce the consumption of plastic bags: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to impose a minimum price for plastic bags on the market, such as the imposition of certain annual consumption levels or the payment of retail plastic bags. among the various measures included in the proposal which i welcome, but which certainly only solve part of the problem, is the labelling of plastic bags as 'oxo-biodegradable'. oxo-biodegradable bags, contrary to what the name suggests, do not represent a solution to the problem of environmental pollution by microplastics, but rather aggravate it because they contain an additive that causes the fragmentation of plastic into microparticles. the labelling of bags would give clear indications of the components of biodegradable bags and would thus give all citizens the opportunity to make an informed choice of those plastic bags which are truly biodegradable and compostable.
in writing. ‒ the legislation adopted today will oblige member states to take new measures to reduce the average annual consumption of plastic bags to 90 lightweight bags per citizen by 2019 and to 40 by 2025. a decision which not only preserves the environment in which we live, but also saves 740 million euros a year.
in writing. i decided not to support the proposed amendment because it was necessary to close a very imperative decision-making process. the elements which parliament and the council have inserted into the commission's proposal have led to a text which, while it can be improved, is probably the best that could be achieved, also in the light of the lack of cooperation on the part of the commission on this dossier. i think it is extremely important to ensure that the consumption of plastic by shoppers is reduced in a sustained manner, including the introduction of specific monitoring provisions, which require member states to submit an annual report on their consumption. finally, for the first time in 40 years of european waste legislation, there will be binding measures at eu level to reduce waste production, a measure which i can only support.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour because i believe that europe has a responsibility, also as an institution, to send a signal for respecting and protecting the environment. the exploitation of plastics, a highly polluting chemical process, can no longer be carried out indiscriminately and without limits. limiting the spread of plastic bags (often used only once as waste containers, also significantly increasing the cost of disposal processes) is a clear message first cultural, and then political, to try to make the continent more sustainable.
in writing. ‒ today we approved the call for eu member states to reduce the use of plastic bags. under the new rules, member states will have to drastically reduce the use of 'once-and-for-all' plastic, with a thickness of less than 0.05 millimetres, which is the vast majority of plastic bags used in the eu. from now on, we will have to halve our consumption compared to 2010, already by the end of 2019, and we will not be able to use more than 90 light bags per person, and then go down to 40 by the end of 2025. as an alternative, eu countries will have to ensure that consumers pay for the use of ultralight plastic bags by 2018. this is a huge environmental problem, as billions of plastic bags are released into the environment and seriously pollute waterways and aquatic ecosystems. i am therefore pleased that the recommendation has been adopted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this measure, which aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the shipping sector as well. what is envisaged is a system of monitoring, reporting and verification, with the aim of increasing information on the efficiency and emissions of ships, thereby encouraging the reduction of consumption and therefore of emissions. in transport, the maritime sector is the only one in europe today not affected by community measures to reduce co2 emissions. the text we are adopting today is a first step which takes account of the fact that the sector accounts for 4% of total eu emissions, which are estimated to increase by around 50% by 2030. this is a regulation which concerns vessels over 5 000 tonnes transiting european ports, irrespective of their country of registration, and which will also have to be taken into account in future negotiations within the international maritime organisation. a positive sign that reinforces the message that the transition to a more sustainable european system must necessarily involve all the sectors concerned.
in writing. - i voted against the measure. i have always been very critical of climate policy, of which this measure is part. in this case, i fear it will be an unnecessary bureaucratic burden.
in writing. ‒ the proposal sets new eu rules to collect data on emissions and engine efficiency from boats for incremental improvements, requiring shipowners using eu ports to monitor and report co2 emissions every year from january 2018. this is a first step towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions from large ships.
in writing. ‒ the proposal under consideration introduces a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport. in order to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport, it was proposed to set up a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying (mrv) co2 emissions from fuel consumption of ships as a first step in a phased approach to include maritime transport emissions in community policies for greenhouse gas reduction. the introduction of an mrv system allows for a reduction in emissions of up to 2% compared to the status quo and an overall net cost reduction of up to eur 1,2 billion by 2030. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation because i believe that it is appropriate to establish a system to monitor and control co2 emissions in the shipping sector as a first step towards a global monitoring system. international shipping remained the only mode of transport not covered by the eu's commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, despite the fact that shipping emissions are a major contributor to both air pollution and climate change. i believe that this resolution represents the basis on which europe can, or at least should, develop emission reduction policies for the maritime sector consistent with global policies on climate, air pollution and the protection of human health. finally, i believe that the development of ambitious policies to reduce emissions in this sector is all the more important in the light of the challenges facing the maritime sector in the coming years. in the future, world trade is expected to grow considerably due to the expected increase in population and it is therefore necessary and urgent to develop technologies and practices to be applied to fuel quality, emission reduction technologies and operational measures for ships.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulation on the establishment of a system for monitoring, recording and evaluating carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport. the introduction of the new mechanism is of primary importance, especially in the light of the fact that maritime transport remains the only transport activity not yet included in the european plan for reducing pollutant emissions. improving the quantity and quality of information available on pollution from shipping will not only provide a clearer picture of the state of the seas, but is expected to act as a stimulus to reduce emissions and fuel consumption. i also welcome the provisions in this regulation which have the effect of minimising the administrative and bureaucratic burden on companies by making the information collected accessible and reusable for other purposes, as well as the introduction of the obligation for all categories of vessels to display the energy efficiency statement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i support the proposal that requires shipowners using community ports to monitor and report their co2 emissions every year from january 2018, although the rules will only apply to ships over 5 000 gross tonnage. i believe that this is a first step towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions from these large ships.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal for a recommendation requiring all shipowners using eu ports to monitor and report their co2 emissions every year. the rule, which will come into force in 2018, will apply to all ships over 5 000 tonnes, regardless of the country in which they are registered. international shipping remains the only type of sector not yet included in community measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. the adoption of this measure is a first step in that direction.
in writing. parliament approved the council's position at first reading as it was in line with the agreement reached in the trilogue. i am in favour of the second reading of the proposal under consideration, which introduces a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport. the system is designed to collect data on emissions and engine efficiency and encourage further efforts to reduce emissions and fuel consumption. this is therefore a first step towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions from ships over 5 000 gross tonnage, while excluding warships and fishing boats from monitoring.
in writing. ‒ considering that the council's position at first reading is in line with the agreement reached in the trilogue, confirming the text voted on by the envi committee by a very large majority, i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the proposal would introduce a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport. we believe that, in view of the measures taken in the past, this too will, despite the reassurances, be an unnecessary bureaucratic burden.
in writing. i welcome the speedy and prompt approval and adoption of the draft resolution on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport and amending directive 2009/16/ec, by my colleagues in the envi committee, and in particular by josé inácio faria, rapporteur for the draft resolution on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport and amending directive 2009/16/ec.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal by mr faria, whom i thank for the excellent work he has done. maritime transport is a vital sector for the world economy, as over 80% of goods are transported by ship. today's vote confirms the outcome reached in december, following a major negotiation with the italian presidency, and demonstrates once again how the european parliament is taking sustainability issues seriously, by establishing an eu system for monitoring, reporting and verifying (mrv) co2 emissions from shipping, as a basis for facilitating the setting of reduction targets at a later stage and for the application of a market-based measure, which could take the form of a contribution or target-based compensation fund or an emissions trading scheme, which will be able to ensure a reduction in co2 emissions from shipping.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the recommendation on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport and amending directive 2009/16/ec. the possibility of controlling the consumption and pollution of vessels fishing in the seas and oceans at european level is of great importance. given the importance of adequate protection of marine flora and fauna, and given the necessary trend to be respected for 2020, there is a need to exercise an effective form of control that allows an analysis of what is happening and where. protecting our environment remains a widespread priority that must be respected and effective monitoring remains crucial.
in writing. ‒ the proposal we have discussed and adopted today is of fundamental importance as it introduces a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport. the final text, the result of long and complex interinstitutional negotiations which were concluded on 18 november 2014, was adopted by an overwhelming majority in our committee on the environment. we therefore assure you of our full support without the need for further amendments.
in writing. ‒ the text establishes a european-wide system for monitoring, reporting and verification (mrv) of greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport, in order to improve information on the efficiency of ships and emissions from the sector, and to encourage reductions in emissions and fuel consumption. the new rules, already informally agreed with the council of ministers, will apply from 2018 to ships over 5 000 tonnes, regardless of the country in which they are registered. according to the impact assessment accompanying this proposal for a regulation, co2 emissions from international shipping in the eu increased by 48% between 1990 and 2007. the exact amount of co2 and greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport is currently unknown due to the lack of monitoring and reporting of these emissions. for these reasons, i shall vote in favour of the report. i believe that a system of monitoring, reporting and verification at european level is absolutely essential.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the council's position at first reading and the opinion of the european economic and social committee of 16 october 2013, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the council's position at first reading is in line with the agreement reached in the trilogue and that the rapporteur recommends that the committee approve it without further amendments.
in writing. ‒ the proposal that was voted on introduces a sound system for monitoring, reporting and verifying greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport. as you can easily see, it is a very positive proposal, the envi committee had already approved it by a very large majority in the votes of december 2014 and there was a great deal of agreement from all the parties concerned.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation at second reading as the proposal under consideration introduces a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategic plan for greenhouse gas reduction.
in writing. i have decided to vote against because i have always been very critical of climate policy, of which this measure is part. in this case, i fear that, despite the reassurances, it will be an unnecessary bureaucratic burden.
in writing. ‒ the problem of co2 emissions must be addressed at international level. i therefore believe that the imo is the right place to discuss a global monitoring system to involve the entire shipping industry. the fight against climate change cannot continue to be an eu-only battle, but must involve all the main greenhouse gas emitters. i have decided to vote in favour of this new european regulation in the hope that it will serve as a spearhead for joint action by the international community to reduce emissions from shipping. only then can we achieve tangible results and improve the marine environment without putting european industry at a disadvantage compared with its foreign competitors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislation establishing a european system for monitoring, reporting and verifying (mrv) greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport, in order to improve information on the energy efficiency of ships and encourage reductions in emissions and fuel consumption. international shipping, which accounts for around 4% of all greenhouse gas emissions in the eu, remains the only type of transport not yet included in the eu's co2 reduction measures. in anticipation of substantial increases in future emissions, action at european level was needed with a first measure requiring shipowners using eu ports to monitor and report the co2 emissions produced each year by ships over 5 000 tonnes. the exclusion from the mrv system of fishing, war, timber and non-commercial state vessels ensures that only the most polluting means are monitored.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport. the proposal is a small step forward but equally significant for the fight against climate change. the shipping sector is one of the largest sources of climate-altering gas emissions (4% of total eu emissions). without regulation and without standardized control, emissions from this sector could more than double by 2050. the proposal introduces, from 2018, monitoring, reporting, verification of carbon emissions for large ships calling at european ports and the inclusion of emissions from maritime transport in greenhouse gas reduction targets. this will allow data and information on the performance of individual ships to be collected which will then be useful to encourage further efforts to reduce emissions as well as the energy performance of the ships themselves.
in writing. ‒ the proposal voted today introduces a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport. a new step forward towards ever more careful protection and safeguarding of the environment.
in writing. - i abstained. the text itself would be positive and free of particular problems, but one must be careful about abstaining. it is well known that the european institutions also use eurostat data for political purposes and to justify and promote their initiatives vis-à-vis political forces that criticize their action and, in particular, monetary policy.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, the new regulation does not significantly improve the previous text, so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the proposal under consideration concerns the revision of the current legal framework for european statistics. the objective, as underlined by the commission in its communication on 'strengthening the quality management of european statistics', is to strengthen the governance of the european statistical system (ess) by fully applying the principle of the professional independence of the national statistical institutes (nsis), clarifying their coordinating role in national statistical systems and enhancing the use of administrative data for statistical purposes. in addition, it was proposed to introduce 'commitments to ensure confidence in statistics' to make national governments aware of their role and co-responsibility as guarantors of the credibility of official statistics, while respecting the independence of the national statistical institutes. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amending the current legal framework governing european statistics to make it possible to strengthen the governance of the european statistical system. the achievement of this objective requires strengthening the independence of the national statistical authorities so that they are able to express data free from bias while being aware of the important responsibilities which they bear. this amendment will also make it possible to establish a new legal framework to allow for a wider use of administrative data for the production of european statistics.
in writing. ‒ i welcomed the proposal to revise the current legal framework on european statistics, aimed at strengthening the professional independence of statistical authorities. i believe that this is a guarantee of reliability and that, in this respect, eurostat's position of independence must be preserved. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i decided to abstain because this regulation, which aims at reforming the european statistical system, although better than the previous text, i do not consider it fully satisfactory.
in writing. ‒ the report on european statistics by hugues bayet tackled some fundamental problems, which had remained unresolved for years due to a lack of agreement between the council, the commission and parliament in the last legislature. statistics are very important for understanding and interpreting reality, especially if we consider the role they have played in economic and monetary policy decisions in recent years. the calculation of unemployment, poverty and inflation rates are just some of the most significant examples of their important contribution to european and national economic policies. three guidelines have been used to build this report. the first is to increase the quality of the independence and transparency of european statistics. the second concerns the appointment of the head of eurostat, a highly controversial issue which was resolved by involving parliament in the decision-making process. alongside this important issue, it has also been ensured that the selection process for the heads of the national statistical institutes is uniform at european level, thus ensuring an increase in quality and transparency. for these reasons, i am voting for this text with conviction, so that the european statistical system can be innovated in a more transparent and independent way.
in writing. ‒ the european statistical system performs a number of tasks which are fundamental to the development of the union's policies. in the economic field, we call for the collection and formulation of data to be carried out with the highest standards of transparency and independence.
in writing. i am very pleased that the commission has taken this step. the amendment to the regulation on european statistics allows the definition and strengthening of data reliability criteria. this is an essential measure to ensure the autonomy and independence of data processing, which is a prerequisite for the quality of legislation.
in writing. ‒ this is the draft recommendation for the second reading on the council's position at first reading on the regulation amending the european statistical system. the final proposal, which i voted for, provides for a revision of the basic legal framework for european statistics with the aim of further strengthening governance in the european statistical system and focuses on the professional independence of national statistical authorities, with coordination of national statistical institutes in national statistical systems, while maintaining a high degree of accountability with country-specific improvement actions. it also aims to create a legal framework for a wider use of administrative data sources for the production of european statistics.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this regulation is to promote a general reform of the european statistical system in order to restore confidence in european and national statistics. we consider it essential, in order to improve parliamentary scrutiny, to introduce new provisions requiring the director of eurostat to appear before the econ committee immediately after being appointed and before taking up his duties. strengthening the independence of the directors of the national statistical institutes in order to avoid political interference in the production of statistics; the obligation to ensure equal opportunities for women and men in national bodies. we welcome this text which also clarifies the relationship between the two main pillars of european statistics production: the european system of central banks (escb) and the european central bank. it will also be necessary to coordinate the statistical activities of the union institutions and bodies, in particular with a view to ensuring the consistency and quality of the data and minimising reporting requirements.
in writing. ‒ to make decisions based on objective data, governments, businesses and citizens need to have more and more reliable statistics at their disposal. that is why i voted in favour of mr bayet's report. the proposal involves a review of the existing legal framework for european statistics in order to respond to the needs and challenges posed by recent developments in the world economy. the main objective is to strengthen the governance of the european statistical system in order to safeguard its high credibility and to respond adequately to the data needs in the european union. in particular, the professional independence of the national statistical authorities in the performance of their duties is of fundamental importance in this context.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the reasoned opinions sent by the spanish congress of deputies, the spanish senate and the austrian federal council in the context of protocol no 2 on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, which declares that the draft legislative act does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in this case, we are in the ordinary legislative procedure at second reading, and the act that is adopted is in full accordance with the council's position. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation as i support the need for a revision of the regulatory framework for european statistics to strengthen its governance, independence and reliability. it is essential to implement the use of available sources of administrative data to develop more statistical analysis at european level.
in writing. i have decided to abstain because it is well known that the european institutions also use eurostat data for political purposes and to justify and promote their initiatives vis-à-vis political forces that criticize their actions and, in particular, monetary policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to revise the legal framework for european statistics. i believe it is important to improve the governance of the european statistical system by maintaining the independence of the national statistical authorities in deciding on the methods of data collection, standards and procedures, content and timing of all publications.
in writing. ‒ this multiannual plan is the first of its kind in the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) and has been substantially amended by the european parliament. it is the first opportunity for us members to demonstrate the real role of parliament in the implementation of the cfp. this plan will serve as a model for future plans and therefore needs to be in line with the objectives of the common fisheries policy in ensuring environmental, economic and social sustainability and respect for the precautionary principle. the basic regulation clearly states that multiannual plans must include conservation measures to restore and maintain fish stocks above levels capable of producing maximum sustainable yield (msy). however, this criterion was not taken into account in the commission proposal. our group has tabled amendments to this effect, which have been adopted by a large majority in the committee on fisheries. it is important to follow the line already marked in order not to completely empty of meaning the efforts made so far. we must continue to act in the name of sustainability and the ecosystem approach in fisheries management to meet the objectives set by the cfp.
in writing. - i abstained. the measure introduces a new approach applied to a fishing area outside our sector. i do not want to support initiatives based on an unclear method of assessing the stock levels.
in writing. ‒ the multiannual plans under the common fisheries policy aim to restore and maintain fish stocks above levels capable of producing maximum sustainable yield. it is no longer possible to ignore this point, which is very well expressed in the report. the multiannual plan for the baltic is the first implementation and an important test bed. the idea of treating fish stocks as if they were endless has led to a situation of serious crisis in stocks and fisheries themselves, which is why the trend must be reversed.
in writing. ‒ the multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and for the fisheries exploiting these stocks was published by the commission in october 2014. the aim of the proposal is to establish a framework for the multi-species management of cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea where fishing is primarily directed at these three species. the plan should also allow for the balanced and sustainable exploitation of these stocks and ensure the stability of fishing opportunities and, consequently, the livelihoods of fishermen. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this multiannual plan because it aims to keep the size of cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea above a minimum level, known as precautionary biomass. cod, herring and sprat are important components of the baltic sea ecosystem and there are strong biological interactions between them. i therefore believe that the precautionary approach is the right way forward, because proper management of the stock would avoid the risk of the reproductive capacity of the stock being compromised.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and for the fisheries exploiting these stocks, considering that the multi-species management approach, as envisaged in the text under vote, is much more effective than the management of one species at a time. the plan should, in particular, allow for the balanced and sustainable exploitation of these stocks, ensuring a constant level of potential fishing and, consequently, the livelihood of fishermen. at the same time, the new plan aims to promote more informed management of stocks, fisheries and the ecosystem through expert advice and the support of scientific advice. finally, i believe that the choice of using a regionalised approach to the introduction of detailed measures to achieve maximum sustainable yield will allow for a more timely response to sudden changes in the status of the stocks concerned.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this because the cfp provides for the preparation of multiannual plans for fisheries management in the various areas. the plans set fishing limits for the various species, so that stocks remain above maximum sustainable yield. the baltic plan is very important because it is the first and will serve as a model for all others. the european parliament amended the table of limits prepared by the commission to a more restrictive one based on scientific data produced at the end of march, which is very up-to-date. i voted against because one of the objectives of the cfp is the progressive elimination of all discards (i.e. fish caught and thrown back, dead, because they are not marketable). this is something which is absolutely new and that is why the debate on this draft regulation has been very complex. after the trilogies, this act has turned into a lost opportunity. the result has been to distort nature itself and to make very little of the results that will be obtained.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation establishing a multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and for the fisheries exploiting these stocks aims to ensure that fishing and aquaculture activities are sustainable from a socioeconomic and environmental point of view in the long term. the multi-species management plan established by the regulation requires that more account be taken of the different ecological functions and roles of the species covered by the plan. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. protecting the sea from overfishing is the best way to safeguard the balance of the system and ensure its long-term sustainability.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the proposal is to establish a framework of rules for the multi-species management of cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea where fishing is primarily directed at these three species. the baltic sea is a virtually enclosed body of water in which cod, herring and sprat are ubiquitous and continuously interact with each other. i voted in favour of this proposal because it was essential to have regulations to protect these three species which are vital to the baltic sea ecosystem.
in writing. ‒ following the failure of the cfp and the damage caused by the centralisation of brussels, i will take a cautious stance towards the 'multi-species' approach.
in writing. i agree with the proposal by mr jarosław wałęsa and the committee on fisheries to adopt a multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea as soon as possible. i think that the idea of multi-species management of these stocks, which account for 94% of catches in a sea with an exceptionally sensitive ecosystem, is a truly innovative concept in fisheries planning. i therefore vote in favour, particularly because of the highly experimental nature of the project, which aims to achieve a balanced and sustainable exploitation of the stocks, while also ensuring a stable fishing opportunity.
in writing. we are well aware of the situation in nigeria. this country is the largest economy on the african continent and one of the eu's main trading partners. i strongly condemn, along with the strong voice of parliament, the increasingly alarming acts of violence and call for concerted international efforts to stop the bloodshed. we support the nigerian government in its efforts to combat the threat of boko haram and call on it to conduct a thorough investigation and to take appropriate action, in accordance with the rule of law, against those found to be involved in human rights abuses.
in writing. ‒ in october 2014, the commission published the multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and for the fisheries exploiting these stocks. the aim of the proposal is to establish a framework for the management of multi-species stocks in the baltic sea where fishing is mainly directed at these three species. cod, herring and sprat account for 94% of catches in the baltic sea in recent years. i have supported the wałęsa report which, in addition to sharing the general orientation of the commission's proposal with regard to the need for a multi-species management plan in the baltic sea, agrees with the approach taken by the commission that further specification of the measures needed to achieve the maximum sustainable yield for the stocks concerned should be based on the regionalised approach provided for by the reform of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the general orientation of the commission's proposal with regard to the need for a multi-species management plan in the baltic sea. the plan should be able to allow for the balanced and sustainable exploitation of these stocks and ensure the stability of fishing opportunities and, consequently, the livelihoods of fishermen. at the same time, it should ensure that management is based on the most up-to-date scientific advice on the status of the stocks concerned, the interactions between species and other aspects of the ecosystem and fishing activities in general. we therefore consider it essential, in order to achieve the maximum sustainable yield for the stocks concerned, to refer to a regionalised approach, as laid down in article 18 of the basic regulation.
in writing. ‒ cod, herring and sprat are important fisheries in the baltic sea. the scientific advice of the international council for the exploration of the sea (ices) indicates that for some of these stocks the current exploitation rates are not compatible with the achievement of maximum sustainable yield. the specific objective of this proposal is therefore to ensure the sustainable exploitation of these stocks in the baltic sea, in accordance with the principle of maximum sustainable yield and in line with the ecosystem approach to fisheries management. the plan will apply to all eu fishing vessels operating in the baltic sea. in the light of the above, i have decided to support the proposal as i believe that the common fisheries policy should contribute to the protection of the marine environment, the sustainable management of all commercially exploited species and, in particular, the achievement of good ecological status by 2020 as provided for in article 1 (1) of directive 2008/56/ec.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the commission proposal to the european parliament and the council and having regard to the report of the committee on fisheries, i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i believe that, in line with what the experts in this field have said in their reports, it is right to have a multi-species management plan in the baltic sea. in this way, the plan should lead to a more balanced and sustainable exploitation of stocks. at the same time, it also ensures the stability of fishing opportunities and a more favourable environment for fishermen. the implementation of the plan will result in more up-to-date advice on the status of the stocks covered by the plan, on ecosystem aspects and on fishing activities. of course it is also important to protect cod during the breeding season and to protect small-scale artisanal fishing. however, the multi-species management plan is a new concept and its rapid revision can correct any discrepancies and would give it more flexibility.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the multiannual plan as i share the objective of establishing a framework for the multi-species management of cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea where fishing is mainly directed at these three species. the baltic sea is a virtually closed body of water in which these three species are ubiquitous and interact continuously. therefore, it is essential to provide for legislation to recognise the interactions between regulated species, including the influence of cod on herring and sprat stocks and vice versa.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to establish a framework for the multi-species management of cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea. this is the first multiannual plan of this kind to be drawn up under the reformed common fisheries policy (cfp). i am confident that the approach adopted can ensure a more sustainable and balanced exploitation of these stocks on the basis of the most up-to-date scientific data on the interactions between the different fish species and with other elements of the ecosystem and the environment. in order to improve the stability and predictability of catches, i think it is necessary, however, to ensure a certain degree of flexibility in the plan, so that changes can be made quickly in the light of the evolution of the fish stocks concerned. today's vote is certainly a test case for adapting stock management to the principles of maximum sustainable yield and regionalisation on which the new cfp is based. i hope, therefore, that this proposal will set an example for future regional plans and help to redefine measures for the conservation of our precious marine resources and for the maintenance of stable and profitable fishing activities.
in writing. ‒ the multiannual plan for certain fish stocks in the baltic sea, which i voted in favour of, is the first such plan to be approved under the new common fisheries policy (cfp), which came into force in 2014. multiannual plans should allow for the long-term balanced and sustainable management of stocks of various fish species, providing greater certainty for fishing activities and the controlled exploitation of fishery resources by creating the conditions for their restoration. to achieve this, multiannual plans are based on the concept of maximum sustainable yield (msy), which is to set, on the basis of the latest scientific data, catch rates that allow stocks to reproduce and to ensure that they are exploited under economically and environmentally sustainable conditions. in view of the future development of the long-term plan for the mediterranean and the particular level of overfishing in this basin, it is important that we have voted for this first plan, which will give parliament a strong position on the protection of the environment and fisheries in the negotiations with the council.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in voting on this text, which, while presenting positive elements of simplification on the landing procedures for fish, does not address strong critical elements (such as the 'serious' infringement on non-compliance with the obligation).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report since i think that the incompatibility between the provisions regarding the landing obligation and those pertaining to discarding create a contrast that should be remedied as soon as possible, in order to better manage the fish stocks.
in writing. ‒ we are very pleased with the agreement reached with the council on the omnibus regulation because we have completed a necessary step to implement the reform of the common fisheries policy and make it a reality. the omnibus regulation, after long and cumbersome negotiations, will remove all obstacles to the ban on discarding and will provide a more solid basis for the landing obligation. the proposed amendments update the commission proposal with the new regulation no 1380/2013, which is the pillar of the cfp; in particular, we have repeatedly stressed the principle of regionalisation as a means of simplifying the proper management of marine resources and the de minimis rule. we have in fact introduced a minimum limit of 10% of live weight below which the landing obligation does not apply, and i am sure that this measure can help small-scale artisanal fishing vessels, which will therefore be relieved of excessive administrative burdens. in this way, we make the cfp environmentally sustainable without sacrificing the economic sustainability of the artisanal fishing industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the measure. i am in favour of bureaucratizing shipboard operations and i am against the system of managing minimum conservation sizes.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this proposal to give fishermen two years to adapt before the new discard ban comes into force. the obligation for fishermen to land unwanted catches and not to discard them is the main objective of the new common fisheries policy (cfp). these new rules require fishermen to land all the fish caught during a fishing trip. it will be extremely difficult to implement, especially for multispecies and artisanal fisheries. my concern is to preserve fish stocks while maintaining a sustainable economy. the compromise we have reached helps to mitigate some of the negative effects of the new rules for fishermen.
in writing. ‒ it could have been a first step towards what should be the ultimate goal, namely the total elimination of the possibility of discarding part of the catch at sea. it is a wasted opportunity, since it does not fully meet expectations and, on many levels, seriously undermines the initial idea. this is particularly true of the small-scale fisheries exception (which covers 80% of cases), i.e. the catch of less than 50 kilograms.
in writing. ‒ the reform of the common fisheries policy adopted during the previous legislature introduced some fundamental changes to the rules applicable to fishing activities. in particular, article 15 of the basic regulation of the common fisheries policy imposes the landing obligation for all catches. this obligation will be phased in between 2015 and 2019. fishermen will therefore have to discard all unwanted catches which are not marketable either because of the lack of a quota or because their size is below the minimum conservation reference size. however, this obligation is contrary to a number of regulations currently in force. the european commission has decided to present an 'omnibus' regulation to make these regulations compatible with article 15. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution introducing the landing obligation, as i believe that the practice of discarding species subject to catch limits and species subject to minimum sizes is harmful to fish stocks, the marine environment and costly for fishermen. it consists of returning unwanted catches, whether alive or dead, to the sea. i think that the gradual introduction of the obligation to land all the fish caught could be a solution to the problem. the introduction of this measure will also make it possible to eliminate the contradictions in the current fisheries legislation arising from the reform of the common fisheries policy, which imposed the landing obligation. in order to align the different sources of regulation, the commission introduced this 'omnibus' regulation to make the regulations compatible with article 15 of the basic regulation on the common fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to ban, from 2015 and by 2019, the discharge of fish caught at sea when it is unsuitable for sale, for example because it is too small or exceeds the authorised quotas. the introduction of the landing obligation will help to reduce waste, to make a more accurate selection of catches and to collect more reliable data on the quantity of fish taken from the sea. the new legislation, which includes specific rules on how to handle fish, both on board and after arrival in port, as well as control procedures and possible penalties for fishing vessels, will ensure better food quality and consumer safety. finally, it is hoped that the new rules will promote more effective protection of marine flora and fauna both off the atlantic coasts and in our mediterranean sea.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this regulation because it provides for the application of the obligation to land all catches (the so-called 'omnibus') by applying the measures provided for in the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp). i am of course in favour of putting an end to the unacceptable practice of dumping precious and limited marine resources, also in order to give an incentive to fishermen to increase selectivity, to collect data and to increase control. however, there are a number of problematic points which weaken the regulation, in particular: first, the 50 kg threshold to be recorded in the logbook (could create loopholes in the application of the regulation. i would like all catches to be recorded, bearing in mind that one of the expected benefits of the landing obligation has been the improvement of recording). secondly, in the trilogy the reference to 'remote sensing' (method of evaluation of resources) had totally disappeared. finally, the introduction of several derogations from article 15 of the reform of the common fisheries policy weakens the proposal by creating gaps.
in writing. ‒ the obligation for fishermen to land unwanted catches and not to discard them has been in force since 1 january and is the main objective of the new common fisheries policy. the adoption of this measure today amends the regulation on the enforcement of this ban and postpones the application of the relevant sanctions for two years. this will give fishermen more time to 'adapt' to the rules on 'disposal' of waste fish.
in writing. ‒ i am against and regret the 'block' vote, which does not allow us to go into the substance of the individual elements of the proposal, save for the positive elements.
in writing. i vote in favour of the proposal put forward by the committee on fisheries which aims to make a fundamental change to the cfp, the reform of the common fisheries policy adopted in 2013. i therefore support the committee in its request to approve the revision of the reform by adopting the so-called 'omnibus regulation', which provides for the obligation to land all unwanted catches for non-marketable fishermen and which includes the exceeding of as many as seven of the previous ordering criteria for fishing activities (large and small pelagic fisheries, industrial fisheries and fisheries in the baltic sea) carried out between january 2015 and 2019.
in writing. i voted in favour of the ep and council regulation which introduced important elements of consistency with existing legislation on discards, because it has as one of its ultimate objectives the gradual elimination of discards. this regulation improves and further specifies the previous regulation which introduced an obligation to land catches of species subject to catch limits and species subject to minimum sizes in the mediterranean. since discards represent a significant waste and compromise the sustainable exploitation of marine organisms and ecosystems, and since compliance by operators with the landing obligation is essential to produce the desired results, it is of particular importance that this regulation sets out to classify violations of the landing obligation as a serious infringement under the regulation. since the landing obligation represents a substantial change for operators, it is appropriate to postpone the application of the rules on serious infringements of the regulation for two years. finally, the final text is a significant step forward compared with the commission proposal, which had not fully considered certain undesirable effects of the landing obligation, such as the possible emergence of non-compliant parallel markets.
in writing. european fisheries policies have a strong impact on the activities of our fishermen, and not always in a positive way. the contradiction between the possibility of discarding at sea and the obligation to land was liable to complicate working conditions and to cause confusion in the sector. i voted in favour of the report because it was necessary to clarify matters. now, under the omnibus regulation, it is clear that fishermen must bring to shore and land all their catches, including those which are not marketable. i think it is very important that these forecasts are valid for 2015 only, which will be a trial year to test the implementation of the new obligation. finally, i would like to stress that the attention paid to small-scale fishing and the reduction in bureaucratic and administrative burdens for vessels of less than 10 metres are very welcome. when imposing new obligations, the eu has a duty to take account of different realities.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr goffredo maria bettini because i believe it is correct to suspend the tariff benefits, established by regulation (ec) no 1215/2009, with bosnia and herzegovina from january 2016, in the wake of an agreement with the union, as the other balkan states have already done. the commission extended these benefits to all the other countries in the balkan area until 2020.
in writing. - i agree with the report on the landing obligation. this is a procedure aimed at implementing transparency to facilitate efficient monitoring. the fact that the fish caught must be landed in their entirety, even if they are of non-marketable species or smaller than the reference size, makes it possible to carry out comprehensive studies on the abundance and concentration of fish and the related trends in order to be able to carry out more comprehensive studies. this obligation, which will become fully operational in 2019, is in opposition to an existing rule of the obligation to discard certain species, which must be resolved at the regulatory level after numerous discussions and decisions related to combating the phenomenon of discards at sea. it is one of the institutions' duties to make policies homogeneous without any internal contradictions and it certainly promotes the use of effective rules by workers in the sector, who will thus be able to adapt more easily to the new rules.
in writing. ‒ following the reform of the common fisheries policy, which imposes an obligation to land, the european commission has presented an 'omnibus' regulation aimed at making parallel amendments to seven regulations, in order to make them compatible with article 15 of the basic regulation of the common fisheries policy. as the current rules require fishermen to discard non-marketable catches, i supported the cadec report, which considers that this contradiction should be eliminated by the landing obligation.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this proposal for a regulation, which is necessary because of the changes to the rules on fishing activities, in particular as regards article 15 of the basic regulation, which imposes a landing obligation for all catches and will enter into force gradually between 2015 and 2019. fishermen will therefore have to land all unwanted catches which are not marketable, either because of the lack of a quota or because their size is below the minimum conservation reference size. the rapporteur and i agree, however, that the legal alignment for fisheries subject to the landing obligation after 2015 will have to be implemented later, in line with the new technical measures framework which the commission will propose in a few months' time. the measures adopted today must therefore be of only provisional value: the 2015 will be a test year to assess the impact of the implementation of this new obligation. we are particularly concerned about the possible emergence of a parallel market which no provision of the existing framework allows us to control. we therefore propose that the responsibility of producer organizations for production and marketing plans be strengthened.
in writing. ‒ following the reform of the common fisheries policy (in force since 1 january 2015) which requires all catches to be landed in port, the european commission has presented a new 'omnibus' regulation to amend seven regulations currently in force to make them compatible with article 15 of the basic regulation on this matter. the proposal therefore aims to eliminate the contradictions with the legislation currently applicable and to convert the obligation to discard non-marketable catches or fish caught outside quota into an obligation to land these catches. in the light of the foregoing, i voted in favour of mr cadec's report.
in writing. ‒ in view of the introduction of a landing obligation for catches of species subject to catch limits and species subject to minimum sizes in the mediterranean, a number of provisions in the existing regulations on technical and control measures which conflict with the landing obligation in that they require fishermen to discard certain types of catches should be abolished or amended. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation because the recent reform of the common fisheries policy adopted by the legislator during the previous legislature introduces some fundamental changes to the rules applicable to fishing activities which are in conflict with previous regulations. an 'omnibus' regulation is therefore needed to amend seven regulations in parallel to make them compatible with article 15 of the basic regulation on the common fisheries policy.
in writing. i decided to vote against because the omnibus text proposed by the commission does not address the strong criticisms about the landing arrangements for fish, such as the 'serious' infringement of the obligation. i am also against the 'system' and the management of minimum conservation sizes, and the text does not provide for the bureaucratization of operations on board.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the amendments to the regulation on how to enforce the ban on discarding or landing obligation, which is one of the central objectives of the new common fisheries policy (cfp) and which was approved by the european parliament in 2013. the landing obligation for fishermen is to land unwanted catches (usually non-commercial species or of unwanted or prohibited size) and not to discard them, to avoid the economic and environmental damage resulting from the death of most of the fish discarded in this way. the rules approved by parliament meet the needs of fishermen, since they will now have two years to 'adapt' before the new discard ban comes into force, and they also limit the obligations of small fishermen to keep fishing logs for the most quantitatively important catches. this is another important step in the implementation of the new cfp, with a view to achieving the objective of sustainable management and restoration of fisheries resources.
in writing. ‒ fish is a staple food for billions of people. if we fish at a rate that exceeds the rate at which fish stocks are being replenished, billions of people will go hungry tomorrow. it's as simple as the concept of not cutting down the tree we're sitting on: yet the depletion of fish stocks is a reality. the eu is over-exploiting a very large proportion of its fish stocks and its fleet is oversized. the so-called incidental catches of fish of species other than the desired one, or still too small and too young to be marketed, play a considerable (but certainly not exclusive) role in the depletion of european fish stocks. the obligation not to discard by-catches but to return them to shore is a good incentive to reduce this practice. i have said no to all the amendments which in various ways tried to water down and postpone this obligation.
in writing. - i abstained in the vote on this text.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this recommendation because it is important that croatia has the status of member state also vis-a-vis third parties, such as the russian federation.
in writing. ‒ i abstained, technical vote, the protocol commits the eu to provide the croatian language version of the agreement following croatia's entry into force in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text because it is not controversial.
in writing. ‒ the measure at issue concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and all its member states, of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the russian federation, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia, as the 28th member state, to the european union on 1 july 2013. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because by incorporating the republic of croatia as a contracting party to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the member states of the eu and the russian federation, the general principles underlying the partnership, namely respect for democracy, the market economy, the principles of international law and human rights, are thus extended as far as possible. it should be noted that this is a formal change, due to the enlargement of the eu and therefore the participation of croatia in the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the partnership and cooperation agreement with the russian federation aims to promote trade and investment and sets out a framework for comprehensive cooperation, exclusively economic, financial and technical, in a number of areas. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the proposal for a protocol which, in view of the recent accession of croatia, specifies the amendment of the abovementioned agreement in force.
in writing. ‒ with this cooperation protocol with the russian federation, the eu aims to promote trade and investment, exchanges of transport services and sets a framework for purely economic, financial and technical cooperation in various fields. following the accession of croatia to the eu, the eu undertakes to provide the croatian language version of the agreement.
in writing. the landsbergis report on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership agreement with the russian federation allowing the integration of croatia as a contracting party is an important sign of the further inclusion of the balkan country in the trade and economic structures and multilateral relations of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the croatia-russia agreements. given the current state of eu-russia relations, such an agreement tends to favour a necessary balance with countries which are part of the european community and which therefore align themselves with certain directives, including relations with the russian federation. the conclusion of a partnership agreement also promotes market conditions between countries by supporting trade, and sectors that can benefit from economies of scale by enhancing products that take advantage of international trade.
in writing. ‒ this document serves as the legal instrument necessary for the signature of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the russian federation, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the partnership and cooperation agreement with the russian federation aims in particular at promoting trade and investment. the main objective of this agreement is to promote growth and the rational exchange of resources between countries, and i have therefore decided to support the landsbergis report.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the conclusion of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement with the russian federation, which must now also take into account the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. as this is a purely technical amendment, devoid of any political considerations, we have no comments or objections to make.
in writing. ‒ i have given my approval to the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the russian federation, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the proposal for a protocol includes the republic of croatia among the contracting parties to the partnership and cooperation agreement and commits the european union to provide the authentic version of the agreement in the new official language of the eu. the protocol also contains a clause specifying that the agreement has been amended following the entry into force of the treaty of accession of croatia to the european union on 1 july 2013.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the draft protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the russian federation, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union (11513/2014), and having regard to the recommendation of the committee on foreign affairs (a8-0129/2015), i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation of the committee on foreign affairs, the conclusion of the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the russian federation, of the other part, is an automatic act because it simply takes account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union and thus of a new member joining the partnership.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the partnership protocol because of the strategic importance of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ in today's vote, the european parliament approves the draft council decision on the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the russian federation, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. on the basis of the protocol, i vote in favour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against the own-initiative report by mr łybacka because i believe that, 15 years after the bologna process came into force, a serious and thorough budget is needed. we think that the report before us today misses a fundamental point, namely the profound impoverishment, not only economic, to which many of the counter-reforms applied in the member states have contributed and which have been invoked in various ways in the bologna process. i am thinking of the italian university system, brought to collapse first by the tremonti cuts, then by the gelmini reform, and i say this having experienced firsthand the precariousness of university research. we are imprinting the knowledge system on the logic of competition. we believe that we must change course and guide it along the lines of cooperation, the right to study, the right to university research free of market constraints.
in writing. - the vote is negative for one simple reason. we're tired of just words, now more than ever we need facts. m5s supports the public nature of education and the enhancement of the social dimension of knowledge. education is an inalienable right and is enshrined in all national constitutions. the fundamental function of the european higher education area must be human, social and cultural development, while the final text shows the will to bend universities to the interests of business. i have called for the elimination of public funding to private universities, avoiding support for processes of privatization of knowledge. the answer was to put the implementation of the juncker plan at the heart of the report, and the commission itself confirmed to us that 'private investment in the plan could have the effect of transferring majority control from the public to the private sector'. access to education must be open to all, funds allocated to private schools should be invested in the future of our young people, favouring the most disadvantaged students and increasing the number of scholarships.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this measure which aims to remove the bureaucratic red tape necessary for the development of the bologna process, the aim of which is to bring higher education systems closer together, not to unify them, by developing common rules of cooperation to offer students a wider and more transparent range of opportunities.
in writing. ‒ the education sector in each country is central to social and economic development and its improvement should be a priority for policies aimed at growth. it has been 16 years since the bologna declaration was signed. since then, a process has been under way to harmonize the european higher education system, while respecting the autonomy of the member states and the universities. much progress has been made, but the objective of supporting student mobility and the internationalisation of training pathways by ensuring a system based on compatibility and comparability of standards remains highly topical. with this resolution, which i support, parliament is sending a strong signal both to the member states, who must achieve the objectives of the process, and to the community institutions, which must support those countries which are having difficulties in this process. the main challenges highlighted in the resolution are, i believe, the promotion of innovative technologies in education and the work to be done to combat the skills gap in relation to job opportunities. the commission has also taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the situation in the former yugoslavia.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour of this report because implementation of the bologna process, with the creation of a european higher education area (ehea), plays a big part in the process of unification since an integrated education system would increase the mobility of students and faculty members in the eu and would have a very positive impact on scientific cooperation.
in writing. - i voted yes. it is important to remember that the aim of the bologna process is not to standardize higher education systems, but to bring them closer together by developing common standards of cooperation, while always taking into account the diversity and autonomy of individual countries and individual universities. i welcome the intention of the bologna process to eliminate the bureaucratic red tape of the system.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the follow-up to the implementation of the bologna process, which provides european higher education with the essential means to meet today's challenges. i believe that in the current context of economic and financial crisis, culture plays an even more strategic role with its profound impact on society and in particular on young people. it is also essential for a sense of european identity and cohesion and is one of the tools that can help to alleviate youth unemployment. the correct use of available resources should therefore be implemented, by focusing existing instruments on the useful result, while reducing shortcomings and promoting merit, with an increasingly results-oriented approach. the new technologies can also be of great help, since they enable the acquisition of skills also in teleconferencing and mobility. the links between higher education and research should also be strengthened by facilitating dialogue between the scientific community, society and smes. for all these important objectives, it is essential to promote synergy between actions supporting the bologna process, such as horizon 2020 and erasmus+, in order to contribute to the 'intangible' implementation of the thinking of national, european and world civilizations.
in writing. ‒ the 1999 bologna declaration, which gave rise to the creation of the seis european higher education area aimed to create the recognition of higher education at internal and external level in all signatory countries as well as the possibility of providing students with higher quality higher education. although progress has been made, much remains to be done, especially with regard to the delicate transition of students into the world of work, by encouraging dialogue with employers at a time of crisis such as the one the eu is currently going through. in addition, this system particularly conditions universities and makes them responsive to market demands.
in writing. ‒ the bologna declaration was signed by 29 european countries in june 1999, with the aim of creating a european higher education area (ehea) by 2010. the aim was and remains to offer students a wider and more transparent range of high quality educational opportunities, as well as to create a simplified recognition procedure, both internally and externally, in all the national higher education systems involved. meanwhile, all 47 current members of the bologna process have introduced major reforms to their higher education systems. over the last 15 years, the bologna process has achieved remarkable results in terms of quality of education, mobility and academic recognition. the measure analyses the main aspects of the bologna process and constitutes the european parliament's contribution to the interministerial conference to be held in yerevan in may. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the implementation of the bologna process because i am convinced that the effective creation of a european higher education area could lead to the solution of some important contemporary problems. the objectives which have inspired and continue to inspire the process have not been achieved uniformly in the various participating countries and, above all, have not been pursued with the necessary impetus to achieve truly satisfactory results. the bologna process, if properly implemented, could lead to a development of knowledge and innovation levels, and ensure compatibility and comparability of standards and quality of different higher education systems. it could also be a response to the problem of youth unemployment, given that almost one in three employers in the european union are having problems finding adequately qualified workers and the imbalance between supply and demand is one of the challenges facing europe, to which a more homogenous labour market could provide a strong response.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of approving the progress report on the bologna process, covering priorities, achievements, failures by member states and suggestions on how to proceed with the implementation of the established framework. in particular, i share the founding principles and support the primary objective of achieving the highest possible level of knowledge and innovation for european citizens. education and research must be recognised as the pillars of our society and, above all, as the necessary tools for job creation. this awareness should in particular lead to a serious commitment to give young students, as well as jobs, the opportunity to enjoy quality continuing training and to enable them to compete with anyone else on a world scale. finally, i hope that efforts will be stepped up to adapt education systems to the labour market in order to promote employment. it is therefore important that states act in a coordinated manner by exchanging information and good practice, promoting international training programmes and facilitating the mutual recognition of qualifications. in this respect, much remains to be done.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i believe that the łybacka report makes the education system work better than the market needs. indeed, its central objective is the implementation of the juncker plan (efsi), in relation to which the european commission has recently stated directly in the fields of education and training that leveraging private finance, as a central aspect of the plan, 'could have the effect of transferring majority control into the hands of the private sector'.
in writing. ‒ strengthening and improving the bologna process on the european higher education system and its annexes is a key step towards creating a european knowledge area that can respond to the new global challenges facing europe. much work still needs to be done to implement one of the inspirational principles of the bologna process, namely that cultural growth is rightly identified as one of the means of combating social inequalities and unemployment, especially youth unemployment. in conclusion, promoting culture means promoting social inclusion. that is what the member states will have to work on and that is why the vote in favour is of the utmost importance.
in writing. ‒ over the last 15 years, the bologna process has achieved remarkable results in terms of quality of education, academic mobility and recognition, and has made information on european higher education more transparent and easily accessible. while these results are commendable, there are still some areas which need further development. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution to give new impetus to the bologna process. it will be essential to focus on adopting a more student-centred approach to learning outcomes, to strengthen links between higher education and research, to facilitate dialogue between science and society and to promote the benefits of the use of technological innovation in teaching and learning.
in writing. ‒ this report is relevant to the ministerial conference to be held in 2015 to assess the state of play of the implementation of the bologna process, the aim of which would be to create the european higher education area, a common reference framework for the 47 countries that have acceded. as usual, however, there were delays in achieving by 2010 such objectives as increasing the ease of mobility of students in europe and the comparability of european education systems. the problem with this report, which is why i voted against it, is that it sets out a private higher education system, thus failing to give due weight to the importance of education as a public education and, on the contrary, cancelling any amendment aimed at abolishing public funding for private institutions. in short, the fear that the implementation of the juncker plan may transfer the education sector into private hands seems to be well founded.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the implementation of the bologna process is an essential means of addressing the challenges facing higher education today. in order to increase the attractiveness and competitiveness of the european higher education area, the bologna process needs to be given new impetus so that it can meet the new challenges and ensure the quality and transparency of european education.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the bologna process and it is important to remember that its aim is not to standardise higher education systems but to bring them together by developing common rules of cooperation, while always taking into account the diversity and autonomy of individual countries and individual universities. in the committee on culture we have long advocated the need to eliminate the bureaucratic red tape which the bologna process would like to eliminate.
in writing. mr łybacka has the merit of bringing attention and value back to the bologna process a few weeks after the yerevan ministerial summit. i would like to highlight an important step which i consider particularly significant for the future of university cooperation in europe: it is very important to ask them to increase their efforts at economic and social level to enhance social inclusion by opening up equitable access to quality education for all, facilitating the recognition of academic and professional qualifications, periods of study abroad and previous training, transversal skills programmes and non-formal and informal learning, as well as by offering relevant education to a diverse student population, through lifelong learning.
in writing. i voted for this report because we hear nothing but news about stability, about budgetary constraints, about economic parameters. our newspapers and our citizens call it the europe of the banks. so i ask myself: where is the europe of culture? we must talk in numbers, in percentages, but when will we pay the same attention to culture, education, training? the bologna process paved the way towards the creation of a european area of education, it envisioned a europe in which students were 'european' first and foremost, where they had the opportunity to gain experience in all the member states, to study at any university, to experiment with different courses and languages. that path must not be abandoned, it is vital for europe to grow and train the new european citizens. to be united in diversity, we must know each other, we must study each other, we must live. we give our young people the right to a european education, and they will give us back a better europe.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on the follow-up to the implementation of the bologna process. the problem of the skills gap and the related problems of finding adequately qualified workers make it clear that efforts are needed to improve the situation. this report can encourage greater commitment to this theme and also calls for the organisation to focus on the student, with a more careful approach towards a complete culture that then prepares for the next challenges.
in writing. ‒ the scourge of youth unemployment has been affecting most eu member states since the economic and financial crisis erupted in 2008. this situation is exacerbated by the fact that many european employers have difficulty recruiting adequately qualified staff. in this context, it is necessary for universities to offer their students less theoretical training, which prepares them for entry into the world of work. i have supported the łybacka report, which calls on the parties concerned to make greater efforts to achieve full implementation of the bologna process, as i believe that it is desirable to rationalise curricula with a view to providing young european graduates with adequate general and vocational skills.
in writing. ‒ in pursuit of the eu's goals for growth and a knowledge-based economy, we believe that the bologna process can play an important role in the revision of the europe 2020 strategy and in the implementation of the juncker plan for investment in europe. the results achieved so far have been remarkable in terms of quality of education, mobility and academic recognition. however, there are still gaps and areas which require further momentum. the objectives of the bologna process have not been achieved in a uniform way in the various participating countries, and it is therefore a priority to implement reforms by consolidating not only the bottom-up approach but also by ensuring adequate and sustained political commitment and cooperation by all the main actors. the development of additional tools and new working methods, such as the formation of clusters and the exchange of good practice, should be encouraged, which could help countries in difficulty to achieve more while encouraging others to make further progress. we can no longer accept budget cuts in higher education: the commission will therefore continue to invest and use the funds available more effectively, and it is also advisable to envisage and then develop new alternative funding models.
in writing. ‒ in june 1999, 29 european countries signed the bologna declaration, the aim of which was to create a european higher education area (ehea) by 2010. today's report analyses the important achievements of the last 15 years in terms of better comparability of higher education structures, increased mobility, adaptation of education systems to labour market needs and improvement of employability and competitiveness, as well as the attractiveness of higher education in europe. as education is one of the main pillars of our society in terms of promoting growth and employment and it is essential to invest more in education to combat youth unemployment, i voted in favour of the report as it underlines the important role of the bologna process in creating a europe of knowledge and constitutes the european parliament's contribution to the next interministerial conference to be held in yerevan next month.
in writing. ‒ considering that, in the current economic context, the importance of the bologna process should lie in pursuing the objectives of developing the highest possible level of knowledge and innovation for citizens through wide access to and continuous updating of education, and considering that this should be reflected in the review of the europe 2020 strategy and the implementation of the juncker plan for investment in europe, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ over the past 15 years, the bologna process, signed by 29 european countries in 1999 with the aim of creating a european higher education area (ehea) by 2010, has achieved remarkable results in terms of education quality, mobility and academic recognition. but i think there are still some areas which need further development and it is therefore essential to give a new impetus to the process so that it can face the new challenges, as set out in this resolution which i support. education and research are one of the main pillars of our society and greater investment in education is essential to effectively combat poverty, social inequalities and unemployment, in particular youth unemployment, and to promote social inclusion. this resolution is intended to be a strong signal to ministers of higher education to make greater efforts to achieve the objectives of the bologna process, to support those countries which are experiencing difficulties in its implementation, to strengthen links between higher education and research, and to promote the benefits of the use of technological innovation in teaching and learning.
in writing. ‒ the bologna process has allowed higher and more qualified students to be offered educational opportunities and at the same time the creation of a simplified recognition procedure in all national higher education systems. this has created the conditions for greater mobility, the adaptation of education systems to the needs of the labour market and the enhancement of the competitiveness and attractiveness of higher education in europe. the bologna process should be implemented in order to adapt it to the new challenges it faces, such as youth unemployment, economic constraints and demographic change. i believe that the bologna process can make a significant contribution to the eu's objectives for growth and a knowledge-based economy, the revision of the europe 2020 strategy and the implementation of the juncker plan for investment in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because of the importance of increasing cultural, economic and social development, which necessarily requires a coherent, transparent and high-quality higher education sector. the objectives of the bologna process provide european higher education with the essential means to meet today's challenges. however, much work remains to be done to achieve these objectives. it is also necessary to promote synchronisation between actions supporting the bologna process, such as the horizon 2020 and erasmus+ programmes.
in writing. i decided to vote in favour because the aim of the bologna declaration was and remains to offer students a wider and more transparent range of high quality educational opportunities, as well as to create a simplified recognition procedure, both internally and externally, in all the national higher education systems involved. it is also worth recalling that the aim of the bologna process is not to standardize higher education systems but to bring them closer together by developing common standards of cooperation, while always taking into account the diversity and autonomy of individual countries and universities.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of this report because i believe it clearly represents parliament's position on the salient aspects of the bologna process and makes a valuable contribution to the next interministerial conference to be held in yerevan on 14-15 may 2015. it will be appropriate to focus on the changing landscape for the european higher education area, including its main priorities, such as strengthening links between higher education and research, safeguarding the diversity of teaching, using technological innovations in learning or even a more student-centred approach to learning outcomes. over the last 15 years, the bologna process has achieved remarkable results in terms of quality of education, mobility and academic recognition. however, there are still many areas which need special attention in order to meet the new challenges and thus ensure the strengthening and improvement of the european higher education area.
in writing. ‒ the vote underlines that cultural, economic and social development requires a coherent, transparent and high-quality higher education sector. the objectives of the bologna process provide european higher education with the essential means to meet today's challenges. however, much remains to be done to achieve these objectives. it is therefore essential to focus on their correct use, remedying any remaining shortcomings.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour because i believe it is crucial that the socialist and democratic group push for parliament's action to regulate a sector such as higher education. in a time when there is only talk of economic growth, and when the issue of education is often reduced to the logic of pure financial convenience, it is crucial to ensure centrality and cohesion between the various european education systems. we must also network in this area to ensure greater circulation of knowledge and training. and, above all, we must give a concrete signal that progressive politics is developing the education system and trying to empower it.
in writing. - my vote on the report could only be negative. there are too many criticisms in the text, and we have tried to remedy some of them with serious and concrete proposals, but unfortunately not all our amendments have been adopted. it has been decided to ignore the gigantic difficulties of access to credit for european cultural and creative enterprises, just as national authorities grant millions of dollars in exemptions from the obligation to invest in european productions in favour of multinationals, thus mortifying european workers and creators. it is a question of multi-territorial licences, but it avoids geo-blocking, and it rejects any attempt to steer parliament's position in favour of creating a digital single market that is really good for citizens and not just another farce. the whole report should have focused on the social function of the whole subject, but instead it has focused on ways of maximising the income, probably of those who already have a significant position in the system. as a spokesman for the european parliament, the only voice i intend to bring here is that of the citizens, and if more of us did that we would certainly be able to silence the voice of the multinationals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this measure because i am in favour of the development of european films.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed this report because europe has been a key player in this industry ever since the invention of cinema, in paris in 1895. cinema is a huge part of our culture and our identity. it is of paramount importance, therefore, that we support the transition of the european film industry in the digital era.
in writing. - i voted yes. the measure is intended to promote the development and support of european films. in this sector the challenge is between european and american films and i share without any doubt the support for european production.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on european cinema in the digital age. the report stressed the essential economic role of cinema in europe. the sector contributes to economic growth, creates new jobs and drives innovation in the european digital market. the digital revolution has transformed the european film industry, reducing distribution costs and thus increasing the number and diversity of european films screened worldwide. however, digitisation does present risks that should be limited. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution because, in addition to encouraging the european film industry to pursue the development of innovative services, it recognised the impact that the unauthorised use of creative works has on the creative cycle and on the rights of creators and stressed the need for more high-quality legal offers and for awareness-raising work among young people.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to protect, safeguard and enhance the value of european cinema and to promote its development and promotion as a cultural heritage for future generations. what is not highlighted, however, is the difficulty of smes in the sector in accessing credit and, above all, it does not draw attention to the social function of cinema, which must not only be preserved but above all protected, with the ultimate goal of creating a single digital market.
in writing. ‒ the measure under consideration underlines the need to increase not only the production and development but also the distribution of european films. in 2014, 1,500 european films were released, twice as many as those produced in the us. the number of spectators, however, was inversely proportional. the challenge is to ensure that european cinematographic works are distributed effectively and efficiently, so that they are visible and reach a wider audience. the creative europe programme, with a budget of eur 1,5 billion for the period 2014-2020, is an important source of funding for the audiovisual sector. the programme devotes more than half its budget to the media sub-programme, which strengthens the development of european cinema, distribution, training sessions and innovation. the european cinema needs public funding which gives greater importance to marketing. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it lays the foundations for increasing not only the production and development but also the distribution of european films. i think that member states should promote incentives to facilitate the production of films produced on this side of the atlantic, and also to apply the same vat rates, because that can stimulate the growth of new services and platforms. i particularly appreciated the provision in the resolution to increase the availability of european films in the original language with subtitles, thus facilitating the circulation and understanding of european cultures and languages.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on european cinema in the digital age, based on the communication from the commission and setting out a strategy to increase the popularity of european films. i fully share the view that cinematographic works are both cultural and economic assets and can therefore make an important contribution to the european economy in terms of growth and employment, while promoting the identities, customs and traditions of the member states. considering that the potential of the cultural and creative sectors in europe, and in particular of the european film industry, is not yet fully exploited, the desire to create a favourable investment climate, for example through a new regulatory text in this field, is appreciated. i welcome the priority measures identified in the report and i think it is good to give them a programme value, in the hope that they will soon be transformed into concrete political commitment. the various proposals include: the development of innovative services and economic models; the balanced and prudent use of european, national and regional public funding; the distribution of european films in their original version with subtitles; the promotion of a cinematographic literature which fosters the understanding and critical exploitation of works; the digitisation of formats.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because the wenta report was designed exclusively to benefit those who already occupy important positions in the system, while there is no advantage for access to credit for small and medium-sized enterprises in the cultural and creative sectors, directly and indirectly operating in the film sector.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on european cinema in the digital age addresses one of the most relevant cultural nodes. the european film market is by far one of the most substantial. at the same time, however, its fragmentation makes it weak in comparison with non-european productions. that is why innovation in both production and distribution must be promoted as much as possible, so as not to fall behind and, above all, to become a residual part of cultural production. whereas, moreover, the film production of many european countries is characterised by a quality peculiar to it which is recognised at international level; the vote in favour of this resolution is therefore crucial to supporting this important segment of cultural production but also to keep up with the latest technological innovations within the film market itself.
in writing. ‒ the potential of the cultural and creative sectors in europe, and in particular of the european film industry, is not fully exploited in promoting the diversity and heritage of european culture. preparing for a world of full convergence in the audiovisual field calls for the combination of tradition and modernity, creating a bridge between cultural diversity and competitiveness. in a multimedia context, harmonisation of the rules governing the digital single market serves to create a business-friendly environment that protects intellectual property and users. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union's audiovisual policy. developing trust in the internet and increasing access to legal audiovisual content is crucial to fostering investment in european film works. the eu needs to act to accompany the assertion of cross-border portability of audiovisual services, in view of the rapid growth of vod and online transactions, in order to ensure access to platforms consistent with the financial and fiscal interests of the union.
in writing. ‒ films produced in europe are mostly distributed almost exclusively in their country of origin and only 8% are distributed outside the eu, despite the fact that the union produces more films than the us. i supported this resolution because it aims to support european cinematographic works and to promote their promotion, distribution and visibility so that all european citizens can reap the benefits.
in writing. in the digital age we live in, the film industry is very much affected by the changes in the production and distribution chain, as well as in consumer habits. to tackle this problem seriously, which is also aggravated by strong competition from the united states, it would be necessary to think at european level of a multi-level governance in order to design a system that enhances the film industry not only as a source of income but also and above all as an indispensable source of culture. it is precisely because of this lack of vision that i voted against this text, which is far from the idea of creating a digital single market, since it does not even mention geo-blocking as a serious limitation of the current legal framework. in addition, i found it indicative that the 2013 survey on access to credit for creative industries, which revealed a financing gap of between eur 8 billion and eur 13,3 billion, was not mentioned in the text. nor is there any criticism of the meagre sum of eur 130 million made available by the creative europe programme as the only measure taken by the commission to tackle the serious problem of access to credit for smes in the cultural sector.
in writing. ‒ european cinema must be supported because it is a key sector for european culture. the report promotes european cinematographic works and encourages their distribution and visibility. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of developing and supporting european films. in this sector, the challenge is between european and american films. in addition to cultural differences, the big difference is budget for production but especially for marketing. we in the committee on culture have long supported these european policies.
in writing. i welcome and welcome the report by mr bogdan brunon wenta, who sees cinema as an important cultural and economic resource for europe, both in terms of a large industry with a very large number of workers at its service, and therefore a large number of jobs, and in terms of the great tradition and the exceptional tradition on which it has grown and continues to develop at the author's level. it is precisely in order to safeguard this valuable source of training and human growth which cinema often represents, and to facilitate the widest access and the widest dissemination of european audiovisual works in the member states and third countries, that greater commitment is therefore called for in the financial support for films not only linked to the production phase but also to the distribution and promotion of the titles. to continue with the european film forum, to provide for increased incentives for the market and the commercialisation of european audiovisual products in the world, to allow access to the financial guarantee instrument for filmmakers and to launch and promote by all means festivals and events that broaden the visibility of our cinema, as well as supporting legal online offers (streaming or video on demand) are all actions that i therefore feel i fully support so that our culture can grow from great works of cinema and above all spread and reach beyond our borders, talking about europe and investing in it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because in the vast cultural heritage of europe we cannot forget the 'seventh art'. despite the size of european film production in 2015 there were 1 500 european films in circulation what is apparently missing are the audiences, who by far prefer american cinema. de gustibus non disputandum est, of course, but the problem here is that our citizens are not aware of european alternatives because they are not very well marketed or promoted, which is something the americans are very good at. european cinema does not have the resources to be translated or dubbed, and this is a serious loss for the spectators. the italians are denied the chance to watch the dardenne brothers, the dutch the ozpetek brothers. among the young directors there could be the new fellini, it's our responsibility to support him and make him emerge.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on european cinema in the digital age. there are many positive contributions of the world of cinema in our lives; it should be stressed that there are, however, a number of potential improvements in terms of diffusion and effectiveness. the structure is still heterogeneous, both in terms of funding and types of production, and one of the aspects which needs to be improved profoundly and effectively is that of dissemination: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. ‒ the european film industry is distinguished by its quality and originality. however, in europe, the potential of the film sector as a means of promoting the community's cultural heritage is not yet fully exploited. i welcomed the wenta report, which calls on film producers to finance subtitled works, because i believe that a more rational cross-border circulation of european film works would help to increase the degree of cultural awareness among our citizens.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this report which aims to support european cinematographic works and to promote, distribute and make them visible so that all citizens can reap the benefits of their cultural heritage. the challenge facing the audiovisual sector is precisely the need to ensure a genuine and efficient distribution of european cinematographic works, ensuring their visibility and reaching a wider audience. unfortunately, we must not forget that in europe the funds devoted to the marketing and promotion of cinematographic works often amount to just 1% of the total production costs. the majority of these are then projected almost exclusively in the country of origin. the distribution and circulation of european films outside europe must therefore be given new impetus, not only for the financial gains they can bring but also for the cultural values they express. we consider the creative europe programme to be a key player, and with a budget of €1.5 billion for the period 2014-2020, it is certainly a very important source of funding for the audiovisual sector. we look forward to the implementation of new pilot projects to investigate possible alternative financing and crowdsourcing.
in writing. ‒ this report lays the foundations for increasing not only the production and development of european films, but also their distribution. in fact, despite the fact that the eu produces more films than the us, the european film industry has difficulty exporting its works (only 8% are distributed outside the union). to help europe meet this challenge, the report emphasises the possibility of using public funding for european cinema also for marketing purposes. as the visibility and promotion of european films in the digital world is an essential component to reach a wider audience, i decided to support the report as a more balanced distribution of funding between production, promotion and distribution is crucial to achieve the objective.
in writing. ‒ whereas cinematographic works are both cultural and economic assets and make an important contribution to the european economy in terms of growth and employment, while helping to shape european identities by reflecting cultural and linguistic diversity, promoting european cultures across borders and fostering cultural exchanges and mutual understanding between citizens, and also contributing to the formation and development of critical thinking; whereas the potential of the cultural and creative sectors in europe, and in particular of the european film industry, is not yet fully exploited in promoting the diversity and heritage of european culture and in generating sustainable growth and jobs that can also benefit other sectors of the economy, giving europe a competitive advantage at world level; i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am a strong supporter of the dual role that cinema plays in a country, both economically and culturally. a dynamic and up-to-date audiovisual sector contributes to economic growth, creates new jobs and acts as a driver of innovation in the european digital market. the eu should therefore invest in cinema and increase the visibility of european films beyond the borders of the country of production and the eu, giving greater impetus to the distribution and circulation of european works outside europe for a better economic return, but also to convey the cultural values that european films express.
in writing. ‒ culture is a very important industry in europe, which is facing numerous challenges, both cultural and technological. supporting not only the production but also the promotion and distribution of european film products, as well as supporting our economy, will strengthen cultural diversity and mutual knowledge.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of developing and supporting european films. in this sector, the challenge is between european and american films. in addition to cultural differences, the big difference is budget, for production but above all for marketing.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the report on european cinema in the digital age. i consider cinematographic works to be valuable cultural assets which could also make an important contribution to the european economy. in 2014, the number of european films in circulation was 1,500, twice as many as the number of us films. however, the number of theatrical audiences has largely favored american films, which have more resources for marketing. europe has a lot of room to grow in this respect, as the funds devoted to the promotion of films often amount to barely 1% of the total production costs. i therefore welcome the idea that public funding for european cinema should also be used for marketing purposes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on european cinema in the digital age, which addresses the challenges and opportunities for the european film industry brought about by the rapid pace of technological evolution. a major challenge is distribution, as although the eu produces more films than the us, most of them are distributed almost exclusively in their country of origin and only 8% are distributed outside the eu. in order to improve the cross-border availability of more films to european viewers, the resolution encourages european cinema to pursue the development of innovative services, new business models and new distribution channels, while suggesting the possibility of looking at the development of cross-border portability of audiovisual services; it also recommends that more subtitled works be made available, also to raise awareness of europe's cultural and linguistic diversity among viewers. the resolution also calls for the establishment of a european film industry, which would be able to compete with the european film industry, and for the creation of a european film industry.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote, the european parliament has given a strong signal of support to the film industry, focusing on a system of support for the distribution and promotion of film products, subtitling, dubbing and co-productions.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the state of the film industry in the digital age because i believe that this is a strategic sector from which the entire cultural industry of the continent can be reborn. i also believe that our policy should be supported precisely because this industry is developing all the innovative strategies to meet the challenge of much larger film industries such as the us. both because of the traditional role these industries have in the cultural life of individual member states (think of the importance in the history of cinema of italian neorealism, the french nouvelle vague and german expressionism, for example) and because of taking the challenge to the next level by thus networking and encouraging the creation of strong infrastructures for the near future.
in writing. - i voted for this measure. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of forests and the protection of the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on a new strategy of the european union for the forestry sector since sustainable development of our forests is very important, not only on an environmental level but also on the socioeconomic one.
in writing. ‒ when we talk about forests, there are many things to talk about: it is important that europe brings all these together in a comprehensive strategy focused on sustainability. forests play a key role not only in safeguarding the environment and biodiversity but also in supporting the economy of rural communities and mountain areas. the conditions must be created for an exchange of good practice at european level. in fact, forest management can become a factor in countering the abandonment of the hinterland. public and private owners should be encouraged to manage forest assets in a participatory manner, by encouraging integrated and sustainable management and by promoting the opportunities that forests can offer. for example, new jobs can be created by expanding the market for forest products or by identifying innovative ways of exploiting wood. finally, looking beyond our borders, i would like to stress the importance of the amendment calling on the commission to develop an action plan to combat deforestation in the tropics.
in writing. - i voted yes. the measure also calls for a community framework for a forest management strategy, the text stressing the exclusive competence of the member states, and the importance of national and, above all, local logics regarding their use.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the new eu forest strategy which must focus on sustainable forest management, promoting the efficient use of their raw materials, increasing the competitiveness of the forest industry. i think it is essential to increase the use of sustainable materials such as wood, one of the eu's key raw materials, not only to protect the environment but also to increase employment. i believe that the new eu forest strategy is a much-awaited response to the significant social and political changes that have affected forests over the last 15 years. this proposal makes it possible to tackle many crossborder problems through a joint strategy: the commission has also proposed to the council that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment by the placing on the market of certain dangerous substances.
in writing. ‒ a positive strategy, which includes the protection of biodiversity, the use of natural resources and the protection of the environment and our forests, thus countering hydrogeological disruption and climate change. forests must and will be at the heart of environmental issues, because they will provide not only energy but also employment over time.
in writing. ‒ the measure under consideration draws attention to the forestry sector and to wood as a sustainable raw material and resource for europe. with over 3.5 million people employed, the forestry sector is the third largest employer in europe, behind only the metallurgical and food industries. the more than 450 000 companies in the sector contribute 7% to economic growth, but only 60% of the annual forest growth. since many eu policies, such as energy, environment and climate, also affect forest management, it is important that the new eu forest strategy aims to better coordinate individual policies and avoid imposing bureaucratic obstacles on forest owners over 50% of europe's forest assets are privately owned and forestry operators. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it aims to further strengthen the economic and ecological role of forests and the forestry sector and to draw attention to wood as a sustainable raw material and an important resource for europe. i believe that it is necessary to ensure that forest resources and wood materials are used efficiently, both as a source of reducing the eu's trade deficit, improving the eu's self-sufficiency in timber and boosting the competitiveness of the forestry sector, and as a contribution to reducing unsustainable forest management, preserving the environment and reducing deforestation in third countries. whereas, although it is a matter for the member states, there are benefits that the forestry sector can gain from better and more active coordination and a higher positioning of this important economic sector, which provides jobs at european level, particularly in rural areas, while protecting ecosystems and providing ecological benefits for all, without prejudice to the competence of the member states;
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the new forestry strategy for the european union, which is based on the communication from the commission and the accompanying working documents. i believe that the sustainable management of forests and awareness of their multifunctional role from an economic, social and environmental point of view are of paramount importance. i particularly appreciate the desire to improve the coordination of national policies directly or indirectly linked to forestry, while respecting the competence of the member states in this field. i believe that the development of forests as a source of wealth is also useful for the preservation of jobs in rural areas and therefore helps to avoid the depopulation of these areas. i also believe that a society based on the bioeconomy is also a benefit for human health, the environment and climate protection, and that the safeguarding and care of forests is an essential prerequisite for its realisation. finally, i welcome the intention to ensure that forest resources and timber are used and reused efficiently in order to reduce the eu's trade deficit, improve its self-sufficiency in timber and boost the competitiveness of the forestry sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted with conviction in favour of the parliament's resolution for a new eu forestry strategy for forests and the forestry sector. the resolution stresses the importance of ensuring the sustainable management of forests, which have always been a fundamental element of any ecosystem, a source of biodiversity and wealth. the resolution stresses the importance of forest areas not only for rural development but also for the environment, biodiversity, forest industries and trade in forest products, bioenergy and the fight against climate change. the resolution also stresses the importance of sustainable management of forests, which play an important role in achieving eu socio-political objectives such as the energy transition, combating global warming and achieving the europe 2020 and biodiversity objectives.
in writing. ‒ the new eu forest strategy will focus on managing forests in a more sustainable way. the new strategy will promote the sustainable use of wood and other forestry materials without adding red tape to forestry operators. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because better management of forests in europe will increase rural employment.
in writing. european forests are ecosystems on which essential services depend for the protection of terrestrial biodiversity and the human species itself. the economic value of preserving them is much greater than that which can be derived from the use of the wood that can be obtained from them. on the other hand, with over 3.5 million people employed, the forestry sector represents the third largest sector of employment in food europe, with over 50% of european forests being privately owned. in order to be able to combine different, but not necessarily divergent, needs, it is necessary to ensure that european forests are managed in a conscious and sustainable manner in the short, medium and long term. the document on the forestry strategy, with the adoption of certain amendments to improve the original text, lays the foundations for ensuring the responsible management of europe's forests, which is why i have decided to support the document put to the vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the köstinger report because it further strengthens the social, economic and ecological role of forests and the forestry sector.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the proposal because it rightly points out that the member states have exclusive competence. however, it is also important at european level to promote a strategy for managing forests as ecosystems to be protected, also in the context of the protection and enhancement of the cultural and natural heritage and the promotion of sustainable ecotourism.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain from voting on this resolution because, while i share the general approach, in particular the focus on the protective role of forests in preventing environmental disasters and the recognition of the importance of sustainable forest management and the coordination of national policies in this regard, i believe it is of paramount importance that forest management be viewed from the perspective of environmental and social protection, placing these interests above the logic of profit. therefore, an appropriate forestry strategy should invest in research to make the most of the potential of forests to safeguard the environment, in improving the training of workers to make the workforce more aware and informed, in adopting a system of protection for small local producers.
in writing. mr köstinger has given us a very important report, which welcomes the commission's communication on a new european forestry strategy, stressing that it should focus on sustainable forest management and its multifunctional role in economic, social, environmental and energy terms. this is the most appropriate framework within which to proceed with the development of this sector, which is so strategic for europe's environmental and cultural heritage.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the new eu forest strategy for forests and the forestry sector. forests guarantee a high quality of life, environmental protection and air quality and represent a great economic added value. the forestry sector, with over 3.5 million people employed, is the third largest sector in europe in terms of employment and has a triple function: ecological, economic and social. i agree with the importance of sustainable management of forests, whose resources, such as wood, are vital to rural areas and must be diligently managed to preserve them for future generations. it is therefore essential that member states implement national policies for sustainable forest management in order to respond to daily challenges such as forest fires, climate change, natural disasters and tree diseases. these policies should look at the multiple possibilities for the development of the green economy through forests, such as the processing of textile fibres, the bioeconomy, renewable energy and biofuels, and support research and innovation in this area.
in writing. i believe that the european union needs to formulate a coherent strategy for forests for several reasons. first of all, the number of players involved and the size of the sector. the forestry sector employs more than 3.5 million workers in 450 000 enterprises. it is therefore vital for rural economies, but also for the connected urban economies. secondly, the need to safeguard the ecosystem. the presence of "healthy" forests can prevent natural disasters such as avalanches, landslides and floods. and finally, because even though more than 50% of the forests are privately owned, the presence of forests benefits all citizens. forests thus play an ecological, economic and social role, although they are less and less known. the european union should therefore implement the strategy early, not to impose new bureaucracy and new obligations, but rather to promote forest knowledge and to shorten the distance between towns and rural areas.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr köstinger, as it seeks to strengthen the social, economic and ecological role of forests and to emphasise the importance of wood as a sustainable raw material. forestry occupies 40% of the eu's land area, playing a very important multifunctional role, and forest biomass is the main source of renewable energy, accounting for around half of the total renewable energy consumption in the eu. for these reasons, i support the report and thank mr köstinger for the excellent work he has done.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the report on 'a new eu forest strategy: for forests and the forestry sector'. wood is indeed an important resource for the european union, both as a renewable resource and as a raw material with potential for development. effective forest management is of major importance, given the size, characteristics and capacity of our forests. it should also be borne in mind that forest biomass is a very important source of renewable energy, as european forests absorb around 10% of the eu's carbon emissions, and that managed forests have a higher effective capacity than unmanaged forests. finally, it should be stressed that, in view of the increasing urbanization, policies are needed to raise awareness among the population and to encourage them to discover and care for this type of resource.
in writing. ‒ european forests currently absorb and store about 10% of the carbon emissions from the eu member states. it is therefore a priority to ensure sustainable management of forest biomass, given that it is an important source of renewable energy. i voted in favour of the köstinger report, which refers to the need to adopt a forestry strategy at eu level focusing on the sustainable management of forests and their multifunctional role in economic, social and environmental terms, as i believe that greater coordination of european policies directly or indirectly linked to forestry is desirable.
in writing. ‒ with over 3.5 million people employed, the forestry sector is the third largest sector in europe in terms of employment. with the adoption of this report we intend to further strengthen the social, economic and ecological role of forests and the forestry sector and to draw attention to wood as a sustainable raw material and an important resource for europe. as many of the european union's policies, such as energy, environment and climate, also concern forest management, we believe it is essential that the new eu forestry strategy should focus on better coordination, so that forestry and forests are better integrated into the individual european strategies and a more coherent approach is followed. in this connection, it is necessary to promote the simplification and quality of regulation in the sector, while avoiding the imposition of additional bureaucratic and administrative obstacles. research and technological development will enable the full potential of innovation and development in the bioeconomy to be exploited, promoting the sustainable use of raw materials and providing a significant service to environmental and climate protection.
in writing. ‒ the current eu forestry strategy dates back to 1998. based on cooperation between the eu and the member states (subsidiarity and co-responsibility), it has established a framework of actions targeted at forests, in support of sustainable forest management. today, however, a new framework is needed to meet the growing demands on forests and the major changes that have affected forests over the last 15 years. the new strategy aims to create a policy framework that promotes forest coordination and the creation of synergies with other sectors that affect forest management, including rural development, business, environment, bioenergy, climate change, and research and development. at the same time, as a related initiative, the commission also proposed an action plan to draw attention to wood as a sustainable raw material and an important resource for europe. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of the report because it highlights the need for a holistic approach, recalling the importance of forests not only for rural development but also for the environment and biodiversity, for forestry industries, bioenergy and the fight against climate change.
in writing. ‒ whereas the european union has no competence in the formulation of a common forestry policy, but whereas certain union policies may have implications for national forestry policies, while it is for the member states to decide on the policy to be followed with regard to forestry and forests; whereas wood is a renewable and often under-utilized resource in europe and whereas it is necessary to ensure the intelligent and sustainable use of this raw material, including through the development and exchange of know-how; i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ it is important that there is a new and more precise eu forest strategy. the forestry sector is the third largest sector in terms of employment in europe. of course, sustainable forest management must be exercised if forest resources are to be conserved and the social, economic and ecological role of forests and the forestry sector is to be enhanced. i therefore believe that the standing committee on forests should be strengthened and a european forestry convention should be concluded. better coordination can give greater emphasis to research and development, allowing the forestry sector to exploit new opportunities and efficient production ideas. furthermore, with the further development of the bio-economy and the sustainable use of raw materials, there would be significant environmental and climate protection.
in writing. ‒ more than 40% of the eu's territory is covered by forests, which are a valuable resource that cannot be underestimated. that is why i voted in favour of the new eu forestry strategy, which aims at sustainable management of forests, highlighting their multifunctional role from an economic, social and environmental point of view. forests and forest industries offer valid answers for a new pillar of the economy, as well as being the best guarantors of a good quality of life, sustainability, jobs and value creation.
in writing. i decided to vote in favour because, although a 'community' framework for a forest management strategy is desirable, the text stresses the exclusive competence of the member states, and furthermore underlines the importance of national and, above all, local logics in their use. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's forestry policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's forestry policy.
in writing. ‒ the report adopted today has the merit of drawing attention to the importance of forests for the european union and their economic, social and environmental role: 16 million forest owners, 3.5 million employees, 451 820 enterprises representing 7% of the eu's manufacturing sector gdp are figures that give us an idea of the high value of the european forestry sector. given the highly heterogeneous nature of european forests, which present considerable differences in ownership, size, nature and challenges to which they are exposed, it is important that the principle of subsidiarity and the competences of the member states are respected. however, the benefits that the forestry sector can derive from better and more active coordination at european level should not be underestimated. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the resolution on the new eu forestry strategy, which stresses the importance of sustainable management and the socioeconomic value of the forestry sector. with over 3.5 million people employed and 40% of europe's land area covered by forests, the forestry sector is the third largest employer in the eu, after metallurgy and food. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat illegal logging and illegal fishing. from the point of view of energy and environmental policies, smart forest management could contribute to the objectives of energy transition and climate change adaptation, through both the capacity to absorb co2 and the efficient use of wood as a renewable and versatile raw material. the resolution also calls for urgent clarification of the greenhouse effects caused by the different uses of forest biomass for energy production and for identification of those uses which can produce the greatest benefits in terms of mitigation within the timeframe provided for by relevant policies. the new strategy should also help to address cross-border challenges such as forest fires, natural disasters and invasive alien species.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the new strategy for safeguarding and protecting our forest heritage because europe must make a big ecological footprint of environmental sustainability. forests can no longer be used as a "base" for future cementation, nor can they be left to themselves by virtue of a "geographical divide" between urban and non-urban dwellers. the construction of a new europe also requires the intelligent and strategic use of its own heritage. not to phase it out (less concrete, more sustainability), but to use it as a resource for the community and as a possibility for the future: from clean energy to heritage conservation.
the agenda includes a discussion on the commission statement on the decision adopted on the european agenda on security (2015/2625 ((rsp)).
thank you, commissioner, and also for the news coming from the college on better inter-institutional regulation. we are happy about this strong link between the commission and the european parliament.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the vulnerability of advanced democratic societies based on respect for rights and freedoms is obvious to all. the threats are many and often unsuspected: think of the use of drones for civilian purposes, or the widespread and common use of so-called "dual use" chemicals. there are inconsistencies in our security systems that we still can't overcome. one of the major problems is undoubtedly the illegal trade in arms, which is strictly prohibited in relation to the states considered to be the origin of terrorist activities, but which reappears in legitimate forms in the trade in the components of the arms. there has been a great deal of effort at european level to harmonise and strengthen arms control rules, but when one looks at the effectiveness of enforcement and control mechanisms, one finds that harmful differences persist. effective cooperation at european level remains an unfulfilled objective. the dynamics of the events in paris are clear: the threat of this new 'domestic terrorism', which is often intertwined with organized crime, makes use of structures, contacts and weapons that come from other countries. these terrorists are taking advantage of our basic freedoms to hide, move and strike. this is happening both within europe and in the neighbouring countries, both in the east and in the middle east. i am referring to another disturbing aspect of this story: the foreign fighters. the 'negative added value' of these is the ability to travel and move easily within and outside europe's borders. it is clear, therefore, that without active cooperation between intelligence and the police - i am thinking, for example, of strengthening the automatic fingerprint identification system - we cannot effectively monitor these criminals. the obstacles which impede or retard this cooperation must therefore be identified and decisively removed. beware of the trojan horses. fear must not be an alibi for the suppression of our fundamental freedoms. we don't fight terrorism by preventing our citizens from traveling, nor by systematically violating our privacy. we need more efficient police coordination and more targeted information exchange. this synergy will also have to involve the private sector and ngos active in this field.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, faced with the reality of hundreds and perhaps thousands of foreign fighters moving peacefully and undisturbed across internal borders, a fundamental fact emerges: the schengen system - we have always said this - is totally inadequate to defend european citizens and their security, especially from the point of view of combating islamic terrorism. it is a fact, commissioner, that with free movement within the community europe has become a burden. this is the reality today, in the light of what is happening. as regards the external borders, the continuous and now unstoppable flow of illegal immigrants and alleged refugees to the italian and other mediterranean coasts is allowing thousands, in the future perhaps tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands - read ratier's prophetic book - of possible terrorists - to enter europe without any police identification, as the italian ministry of the interior now admits. finally, the application of the rules for the control of financial transactions through the islamic bidding mechanism and the flow of money from immigrants in europe to libya is inadequate. it was documented by an italian weekly: money comes in to fund the scavengers, the human-meat traffickers. we have to put an end to this filth.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the security agenda is particularly important today. the threat of terrorism is obvious, but just as serious, because of its spread in all states, is the threat of organized crime, which cannot be underestimated, and which is increasingly worrying cybercrime. freedom, security and justice are objectives to be pursued in parallel, but always with due regard for rights. i am convinced that in the fight against terrorism, we must make better use of the existing regulatory instruments, strengthen judicial and police cooperation, improve the exchange of information and mutual trust. i welcome the establishment of the european counter-terrorism centre and the iru unit at europol to counter the threats and violent radicalism that develop on the internet. as regards organised crime, i believe that further steps are needed also at the regulatory level, for example on confiscation, and i hope that the commission can play a driving role in this respect with parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although the european union does not have the characteristics of a state in the strict sense, it is rooted in democratic values and the rule of law. our institutions have a duty to regard the security of european citizens as a primary interest as well as a fundamental right. the worsening of some conflicts, the advance of daesh to the doorsteps of our borders, the ideological drift that inspires the action of foreign fighters, require a conscious and long-term response. because of the anti-europeanism fuelled above all by national populisms, european citizens are disoriented, they have lost confidence in european institutions. i hope, therefore, that the commission will take advantage of this opportunity to define precisely the scope of its efforts to strengthen the schengen system in order to support those countries most exposed to terrorism. in order to ensure that the objectives of the new european agenda on security do not remain a dead letter, let us ensure that the all-out fight against terrorist groups and those who use religions as a pretext for sowing hatred and death is fought without hesitation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that the common european agenda finally includes subjects which we have been dealing with in isolation since the beginning of this parliament: the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the union's external relations. finally together and trying to harmonize. i - because the commissioner has also tackled the priority issue of cybercrime - want to say that right now in italy, videos are being made by so-called terrorists where signs appear saying 'we are in your streets' in rome and milan. so we really need to tackle these issues so that parliament and the institutions can keep up with and even get ahead of the very serious problems that european society and citizens are facing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the old security strategy is outdated, but the priorities of yesterday are the same, while the risk factors have increased exponentially. terrorism comes first, of course, but the strategy for a secure europe must be 360 degrees and must go through an effective immigration policy, through foreign policy, in collaboration with all the agencies involved and in true cooperation with the national institutions, without forgetting of course that terrorism is also fought on the internet, where information of all kinds is exchanged. the action must be global, and this has been said by many colleagues who have gone before me. the old strategy also included an important chapter on the resilience of territories and natural disasters. i think this is a fundamental point on which we must continue to work because we are still unprepared for natural disasters, the damage of which, for example, throughout europe, is not even quantifiable this year. so we're increasing our response capacity but also our prevention capacity to these things.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as i promised, i am being good and therefore speaking in the normal way. my shirt says it all: the problem of stopping illegal immigration is a bit like the problem of europe, of trying to limit the damage compared to what is happening in africa, to what are the problems of all these people who come to europe and first of all to italy. i just want to make a point. probably africans need help like an adult needs to help a child because if when there was the renaissance we were doing the renaissance and many in africa were picking coconuts, today we are in 2015 and many of them are still picking coconuts. so we must educate them, we must make sure that they are there, we must help them there, we must ensure that europe protects itself properly, protects its citizens and all these people we must help at home and not at home and not with a mediterranean that has become a cemetery, so it is the hypocrites and the bad guys who are urging these people to come to us. let's help them there and leave them there.
mr buonanno, not all the inhabitants of africa are coconut gatherers, but there is also an africa that is growing and developing.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against corruption and crime and the commitment to the proper use of public resources are certainly among the cornerstones of the political action of the five star movement. for these reasons alone, we welcome the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office independent of political power, which would overcome the current inefficiencies that favour impunity for those who indirectly defraud the european taxpayer. we remind the council, which is unfortunately not here today, that an efficient european public prosecutor's office must have a solid legal basis in order to operate, and that is why we hope that the pif directive will be adopted promptly and include a list of clearly defined offences, including vat fraud. we also believe that it is extremely important to extend the scope of the european public prosecutor's office to include crimes other than those affecting the financial interests of the union, as provided for in article 86 of the treaty, by extending it to the fight against organised crime and mafias of all kinds.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office is one of the most ambitious legislative initiatives in recent years in the fight against fraud against the budget of the european union. i therefore thank mr macovei for his work, because i believe that parliament must make its voice heard on this matter by drawing up guidelines which must be respected for the proper functioning of the office, and among these, above all, the independence of the prosecutor's office and all its members from any influence of the european institutions or the states. competences allowing for effective action and avoiding overlaps with other member states; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the opportunity to present its opinion on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
in writing. i believe that the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office is now necessary and urgent. there is currently an overlap of powers between some 450 authorities, which may be administrative or judicial, depending on the member state. cooperation between member states must be given a central role. in addition, the member states differ in the terms of limitation and there is no agreement on the types of offence. the transnational nature of community fraud cannot be countered by national legal systems alone by virtue of the principle of the territoriality of criminal procedural law. olaf, on the other hand, is responsible for investigating fraud and illegal activities, but its powers are limited to administrative investigations.
member of the commission.– madam president, thank you very much for this discussion. it really made sense and it is good that we have raised this issue here. my opening speech was rather dry and modest because i only said that we do not have enough evidence on the table. we do not have enough facts – only news from the media. for me, as for lawyers, this is quite a decisive condition for making conclusions or not making conclusions. i also spoke about the lack of european competence, referring instead to the competences of the member states. however, i must tell you that since i heard this information about the alleged new scandal involving the abuse of data by the american nsa, my vigilance has really been raised. you all know that we are now in a hot phase of negotiations with the american authorities on the safe harbour system in which we are negotiating the exceptions under which the american intelligence service can use the data of the european citizens or legal persons flowing to the united states. this will not make the negotiations easier – quite the opposite. if we have achieved some sort of fragile trust, hearing this news puts us back in a very different situation. however, we are tough in the negotiations. we want to see the rules and the competences, which are varied on the american side, but we also want to obtain very concrete guarantees from the american authorities that the rules are going to be obeyed and fulfilled. the written rules are one thing and the execution of these rules is another. these negotiations are very tough, and this will mark the future weeks. we wanted to finalise the negotiations by the end of may and to achieve the concrete written set of rules which will be maintained in dealing with the data under safe harbour. these negotiations are continuing, as is the parallel procedure of the finalisation of the data protection regulation. this will hopefully come to the june council for the general approach taken by the council together with the police directive. i mention this so that you can get the fresh information on what is happening in the data protection sphere.
member of the commission.– madam president, i am very glad to be here today because it means that we have got to the point of a plenary vote and that is an amazing achievement. a huge amount of hard work has been needed to get this far and i am very keen to congratulate publicly ms gill on the part she has played in getting us here. money market funds are important as a source of short-term financing in our economy, but they also have systemic implications and that is why we need to make money market funds in europe safer. the commission proposal stressed the role of safeguards for mmfs, covering authorisation, supervision, transparency and limits on what mmfs can invest in, and most of that is not contentious. it will reduce risks, but also allow mmfs to continue their essential role for europe’s companies. i know that there are some outstanding issues that still need to be resolved, but i believe that the econ compromise has helped provide a new impetus and member states have signalled a fresh willingness to resume negotiations. in her proposal, ms gill has wisely concluded that mmf reform does not have to take a one-size-fits-all approach. mmfs serve many purposes, so to acknowledge that fact we need a variety of types, and that seems to me to be a good principle for us to uphold. i believe that parliament’s proposal for a low-volatility mmf to replace the current stable redemption mmf is a good basis for discussion with the council. and as the lvnav mmf is a direct successor to the cnav, we will of course monitor how it develops and ensure it both provides a useful service to the economy and deals with risks in an appropriate way. the commission is examining whether the proposed 20 basis point spread is appropriate to avoid investor runs. ms gill has also proposed two alternative fund models – government and small investor cnav mmfs – and these two types of mmf will continue operating under the classic cnav model. i think it is right that we should have a broader range of choices available, including government cnav mmfs, small investor cnav mmfs, lvnav mmfs and vnav mmfs (try saying that after you have had a drink!) in line with our diverse marketplace and national traditions. the commission wants to ensure that mmfs continue to provide a stable, secure tool for our companies to manage their cash without posing a threat to our financial system. we will continue to provide all the technical support that may be needed to both parliament and the council. i hope that we can maintain our current momentum. i will certainly work with the presidency to make as rapid progress as possible, and conclude this important file in the near future by adopting what i believe is a credible mmf reform.
i think that what parliament is about to vote on tomorrow is a good compromise, which has the merit above all of defining a text that can really be the basis for providing the european union with legislation regulating money market funds, which is urgent and necessary. i do not need to repeat the elements of this compromise text which mr gill has well illustrated. the creation of nav, the mechanism which i think can work to move from two to four figures, is important, but retaining it will have limited importance for retail, public debt and the other various aspects. i would like to stress, also in reply to mr hayes, that the sunset clause is an integral part of this compromise, it is an integral part of the political compromise and therefore it is a crucial element in getting that broad consensus which is necessary to then launch a successful trilogue. finally, i welcome commissioner hill's views on the need to move forward as far as possible after our vote to start a trilogue. i therefore renew my call on the council to proceed swiftly, on the basis of parliament's text, to start negotiations on this text as soon as possible. i would naturally ask the commission to use all its moral suasion to the council presidency so that after tomorrow's vote we can really have a change in timing and content and finally also start the necessary regulation of shadow banking.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask commissioner hill, who is british, given that the city of london, the brokers, are the heart of the economy and finance, whether he is really independent in these matters because he has made a lot of noise, but you have only helped the big groups, the banks and you have beaten the small ones. in italy, there's a saying: "banks offer you umbrellas when it's sunny, when it rains they ask for them back". i mean, when you don't need an umbrella, they give it to you, and when you do, they take it away. so i think that you, here, really have to do something very different, help the little ones, the families, the small businesses and not just think about the big groups because the only umbrella that the citizens give you is this. this is the umbrella they can give you because europe is not at all in the interests of small and mediumsized businesses and families. this is the umbrella that europe and italy have for you.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the opinions on discharge on behalf of the committee on the environment, i would like to make a brief comment on the annual discharge for the 2013 budget of the five agencies under our responsibility. in general, we are in favour of the agency's implementation and of the proper and regular management of the resources it has made available. we particularly wanted to stress that we were pleased that the european environment agency had a comprehensive strategy for the management and prevention of conflicts of interest. we appreciate the efforts made by efsa in the management and prevention of conflicts of interest in order to safeguard the independence and transparency of all areas of the authority's operations, both external and internal staff. for the ecdc, we welcomed the centre's efforts to complete the corrective actions undertaken on the basis of the court's previous assessments.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the discharge procedure unfortunately shows once again the stalemate of the european project, blocked by the interests of lobbies and parties in all the member states, which over the years have swallowed a flood of money without creating added value, very often at the expense of taxpayers, some 140 billion euros of the union's 2013 budget, less than 1% of gdp for a europe that wants to literally aspire to be the europe of common policies, but which apparently does not have the backbone to stand on its feet and then moves around like an invertebrate, devouring resources for the good of parties and europe, ready to share the cake, starting with the scandalous contributions in the budget of this parliament. european political parties and foundations received in total more than eur 30 million in 2013, 22.3 million for parties and 11.3 million for foundations. the budget allocated to political parties and foundations increased by 167% between 2009 and 2015 without adequate justification. we want to be part of this dump anyway. so, first of all, our group believes that funds, especially those for regional management, must be managed in a more transparent way, with the contribution of the member states and the commission. the main objective is to create performance in the fields of employment and innovation. no more work programmes that no longer generate employment or development funds for useless works or projects. i would like to thank all the members of the committee on budgetary control and the chairman for their clear position on the fight against fraud and corruption. so i hope that many of the issues in the report will be implemented, later on, by the commission and the member states. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue-card question. i'd like to remember what we are. we are a political movement born in italy, which has rejected 40 million euros of contributions for the parties, because we are a movement and we do everything with a voluntary collection of funds by citizens. so this is our first impulse to try to bring politics closer to the citizens. we can also finance ourselves in different ways and we, as a delegation of the five star movement, have refused to join these parties and foundations because we believe that there are other ways of financing political activity.
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament and, in particular, ms morin-chartier, for giving priority to this file and for the efficient and constructive work and the constructive way it was dealt with. i would like to congratulate parliament on the record time in which the agreement was reached, both internally within the line committees and also with the council on this crucial assistance to youth employment in the european union. let me also, in parallel, congratulate the latvian presidency for its engagement in this dossier that has been processed very efficiently as well, demonstrating that the priority to tackle youth unemployment in the union is one that is shared by all european institutions. we have indeed no more time to lose as regards the swift implementation of the youth employment initiative. time is of the essence to provide the jobs and practical experience that would help bring young people into the labour market. we all need to live up to our commitment to europe’s citizens, and that is what we all collectively have done by proposing, negotiating and adopting this regulation so quickly. the proposal under discussion today is to address an obstacle we identified with member states which is hindering the speedy launch of the youth employment initiative on the ground: this is the need for cash. we propose to increase the pre-financing in 2015 by close to eur 1 billion. this will help accelerate the initiative and reach as many as 650 000 young people while remaining within the overall budget. we are convinced that this proposal – which you will adopt, i am sure, with a large majority – provides a strong incentive for member states to speedily roll out the actions on the ground and thus support jobs, apprenticeships, traineeships and continued education. implementation of the youth guarantee is now under way in all member states with tangible results from some countries, as shown by the examples published in the european semester country reports. the youth guarantee has provided impetus to both structural reforms of employment and education systems. it has also been a catalyst for supporting young people in school-to-work transitions. the present amendment of the esf regulation would also facilitate the timely implementation of the initiative which, given the urgency of the issue, has been designed to have a narrow timeframe. i would like to once again reassure the members of this house that the commission will process the payment of the increased initial pre-financing for 2015 immediately upon the entry into force of the amended regulation. of course the key issue is now the quality of the supported measures. in this respect the commission will continue to closely monitor progress and we will, of course, report to the european parliament accordingly.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur for her excellent work and for the teamwork she has shown with the commissioner. i welcome this proposal from the european commission to provide for an increase in the initial prefinancing paid to operational programmes under the youth employment initiative. the advance of eur 1 billion from the commission, as well as the change from 1% to 30% prefinancing, are in fact concrete aid that will give a strong impetus to make this instrument operational, given the fact that member states have not identified sufficient public funds to support these projects. europe has shown that it is willing to do everything possible to reduce unemployment, i think even more so than in the last legislature, but i call on the member states and regions to take due account in their programming of aid for youth unemployment, which must be a top priority in national policy agendas. from my experience, i am in my second term, i came here at the age of 26, and i can see that europe is fast, it is fast, contrary to what many people think. the problem is what implementation in the member states must be. the youth guarantee fund has done well in some states, badly in others. i therefore think that an analysis is needed and i conclude by saying that there needs to be more communication between europe, the commission, parliament and the citizen, especially with young people, because they often do not know what opportunities they have and they miss them. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i would like to ask mr comi, since he mentioned the youth guarantee programme, whether he was aware that the court of auditors recently submitted a report on this subject and what he thinks of what he says in relation to italy that the youth guarantee programme has brought no benefit to our country and whether he thinks that in the future there are conditions for making this programme effective, also considering that his party governs several regions.
answer to a blue-card question. as vice-president of the epp with responsibility for youth policy, i am dealing with this question together with other colleagues in a european and, of course, italian analysis. where forza italia governs, and i am talking about lombardy, and so i am talking at home, the youth guarantee programme has been the best in all of italy and these are hand-delivered and available to everyone. as far as italy is concerned, we still have a lot of work to do. but i don't do that as a party colour because the unemployed for me can be communist, fascist, socialist, i don't care. the important thing is that you get a job and work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a very good proposal from the european commission. this parliament has shown responsibility by adopting the measure so quickly that it is possible to vote on it in plenary tomorrow. this act will free up around €1 billion in pre-financing for young europeans who are not working or studying. in my country, italy, for example, the advance will go from just over 5 million euros to over 175 million euros. i thank the rapporteur, mrs morin-chartier, for her commitment and commissioner thyssen for her work, because this legislative choice has been able to take up a strong request from the s&d group, which for years has been calling for an increase in the prefinancing rate for programmes under the youth employment initiative, in order to avoid liquidity problems in the member states and the regions. we can say that europe is now doing more of its part. the member states must now demonstrate their ability to make the best use of this incentive, starting first with more effective communication of these instruments and then by making the programme less bureaucratic in relation to companies, always ensuring that the offers are of high quality and always genuinely aimed at the personal and professional growth of young people. the criticisms raised so far must be dealt with effectively, also in terms of transparency and proper management of the funds, and the european commission must monitor this together with parliament. that is why, with my colleagues in the committee on employment and social affairs, we are preparing an oral question to the member states with specific requests to obtain their utmost effort in order to produce tangible results. we will also be writing to the european commission asking for an undertaking to transfer the additional amount of prefinancing without delay. every institution at government level must demonstrate its seriousness and commitment to the fight against youth unemployment, and no resources must be wasted. my generation has a right to a future and the european union and the member states must do everything in their power to bring europe out of the crisis. we in this house will continue to make our contribution to this end.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, thanks to the rapporteur we have aligned ourselves, we have agreed on this urgent procedure. i'm told the operation was a success and the patient is dead. because, alas, when the member states - and i am accustomed to making self-criticism and therefore speak of my country, of italy - have important resources at their disposal, they manage them in a shameful way. i am ashamed of my country, of the unworthy way in which it has managed resources, and i think of the youth guarantee, i think of an empty box, uncommunicated, unused, which has not taken the slightest account of the needs of young people, of what their prerogatives, their wishes and their opportunities could be. there was no monitoring, no reporting. that is the assessment i feel i should make today. i am ashamed of a country which, in the face of the resources it receives, is named by the court of auditors as one of the five countries which have been least able to achieve concrete results for its young people. europe helps countries, my country fails. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, given the interest shown in the speech on this subject and having heard some criticisms which i partly share, i would like to ask the delegation of the five star movement and mr agea why, as shadow rapporteur on the measure for the efdd group, he did not consider himself to have participated in any meeting of the rapporteurs of the groups either in person or through collaborators, as he had no part in the work to speed up and approve this measure and to prepare the oral question to the council and the letter to the european commission referred to in my earlier speech. does the honourable member not think that the months of committee work by rapporteurs to improve a measure, especially if it is criticised, is at least as important as a minute of speech to be published on the internet during the final debate as is the case today in plenary?
answer to a blue-card question. i thank my colleague, mr brando benifei, but as a member of one of the smaller groups in this parliament, i am the rapporteur for two dossiers. when i see mr benifei in the committee with the same diligence with which i am in the committee, mr benifei will be able to make all the criticisms he wants. mr letta, whom you know very well, had been the flagbearer of the youth guarantee programme, which destroyed millions of jobs, and he failed on every level. take note of that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take this moment to make a promise to the commissioner, because i would like all the programmes which are being set up in the next few years to deal with this fundamental problem of youth unemployment to have added value. we cannot afford any more proclamations like those made in my country, where the president of the council came to say that europe had won a great victory, a billion and a half of funds, and then there were only 12 000 jobs out of 2 million jobs promised in these programmes; 412 000 were registered as young people, but in the end, an offer was only given to 12 000. so the programme must work absolutely better, otherwise the perception for the citizens of this europe will be increasingly skeptical rather than believing in the project.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report rightly states - and i ask the house to read it carefully - that the european parliament should set an example in its budget, so as not to depart too far from a reality in which the european citizens are constantly being asked to make new sacrifices. so we in our group are asking ourselves why in 2016 we should increase our salaries as meps by another million euros. the cost of our travel, to come here to strasbourg every month, for example, is almost 3 million euros more. or the over 15 million a year for the salaries of already well-paid civil servants. we would also like to know why we should double the amount of money spent on office furniture, from 3 to 7 million euros, or increase the money for the parlamentarium again, if we want to increase it, that is fine, but then we should block the construction of the house of european history, which is a useless duplication. finally, political parties and foundations will again see their funds increased by several million this year. is this the example of virtue we want to set for our citizens? so tomorrow we will find out which members want to increase the cost of politics, and we are very curious to see who will put their face to it.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today parliament is discussing the fight against tax evasion and avoidance and we have even set up a special committee, but all this has been possible only thanks to the indispensable intervention of journalists and whistleblowers, such as antoine deltour, who have made these unfair practices public. it is therefore clear that it is important to protect those who decide to disclose practices which distort competition and are illegal, especially in tax matters. those who wish to carry out in-depth research into cases and issues that are not yet fully understood must have certain guarantees, as must those who wish to draw attention to all the shortcomings of the system in force today from within these mechanisms. it is true that many of these whistleblowers have been accomplices or initiators of illegal and opaque practices themselves, but in europe there are shelters for penitents who have committed far more serious crimes. we must keep in mind our ultimate objective, which is to dismantle all these techniques of tax evasion and avoidance, and to do this we must have their support and give them the necessary protection.
in writing. the luxleaks scandal, which brought the spotlight of the world on unacceptable tax avoidance practices in europe, was followed by the establishment of a special committee of inquiry into tax rulings, a new commission transparency package and an intense institutional debate on the need to end unfair tax competition and to reform the tax system. this is thanks to the denunciation of a pwc auditor, antoine deltour, who, instead of defending the commercial interests of multinationals, preferred to act in support of transparency, revealing information of vital public interest about scandalous tax agreements facilitated between luxembourg and multinationals. yet today antoine faces jail time for the offence of breaching the obligation of commercial secrecy. this is a paradoxical situation, which reveals even more deeply the flaws of a system that is totally subservient to the interests of the powerful lobbies and powers rather than to the public good. the law also criminalises those who help to combat tax evasion, while leaving aggressive tax practices virtually unpunished. at the very least, it is essential to adopt a whistleblower protection regime as a matter of urgency. they are the ones who, in a system shrouded in absolute secrecy, can make the most concrete contribution to the fight against tax evasion and avoidance.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to speak on the rules of procedure, on the paragraphs which reflect the fundamental rights of individuals. i would like to say that we are all moved by the emotion of what is happening in an increasingly large number of cases, namely that a thousand people are finding it desperate to go to sea, crushed into a small boat, where each of them has a foot to spare. these people without rights, these people without hope for their behavior, we wish they were here with us today, we wish their spirit would soar with ours as we discuss the possibilities of the future. that is why our delegation and i have invited all members to feel themselves to be migrants this morning, to share for a day in their own lives, in their own destiny, to share fully in their own destiny. we wanted them to be here with us today, with what they bring with them when they arrive: these are the slippers of a father and son. the objects we have scattered here are here to signify that this shipwreck has come a long way, this shipwreck today is wrecked in strasbourg.
the european union is founded on the indivisible and universal values of human dignity, freedom, equality and solidarity. this is the preamble to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, a charter which is legally binding on our institutions, but it is also a moral obligation. hanna arendt wrote that the right to have rights or the right of every individual to belong to humanity should be guaranteed by humanity itself. parliament, with the resolution which is about to be voted on today - and i hope by a very large majority - is living up to its responsibilities by rejecting the logic of the emergency. it is not that there are no differences or differences among us, but it is good that a broad unity prevails. because now is the time for unity and solidarity. we are calling for binding mechanisms for sharing in the distribution of asylum seekers, because it is not fair, as mr weber said, that a few states take in 80 per cent of asylum seekers. the next step for us socialists and democrats must be the revision of dublin iii. solidarity must also be effective, triton's mandate must be clarified so that more lives can be saved, and the conditions are in place to activate the 2001 directive on temporary protection, which provides for solidarity mechanisms in the event of sudden inflows. the consular network of the countries of the union must be able to issue humanitarian visas on the basis of current legislation. with this resolution, let me say, our institution, the european parliament, challenges the member states by confronting them with their responsibilities and often with their failures. president juncker, you made a great speech today, and i want to say this publicly and officially. we support and encourage it to go in this direction. the european council, chaired by mr tusk, made some positive points last week. there is a first embryo of european immigration policy, but it is not enough. there is too much talk of safety and not enough of welcoming. the mediterranean is not a frontier to be secured, it is a fluid space, we will not protect ourselves by building trenches on the water, without a long-term vision for africa, we will not solve this great question either. a child born today in africa is destined to live thirty years less than a european peer. behind immigration is a life drive. in these hours, and i conclude, we are hearing about armed men terrorizing burundi, twenty years after the ancient evil of genocide between tutsis and hutus has resurfaced. but unlike in the past, no one will be able to say: 'i didn't know that.' we know that and we do little about it. today, with this vote, which goes beyond the divisions between right and left, the united european parliament shows that it represents not only the european people but also the conscience of europe. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that mr pittella has shared and agreed with mr juncker is a little worrying. i, on the other hand, agreed with mr weber's speech. but i ask you a question: do you think that it is necessary and that it is a very important and priority element to change dublin? i mean, the point is that when a migrant illegally crosses the borders of a member state, that state becomes responsible? that's the point, that's the problem. what does mr pittella think?
answer to a blue-card question. that i agree with juncker is not new. we socialists and democrats voted for president juncker and we have no regrets. the need to look at dublin again, in the sense of greater solidarity, i think is a fact that emerges clearly. the dublin review, not in a restrictive but in an enlarging sense, cannot be left to the country which is the first front office of the flow of refugees, a principle of solidarity must be applied.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard a lot of hypocrisy and racism from the left, and i am ashamed of them. i heard the same things they said a year and a half ago after the 366 deaths in lampedusa: the cards were missing. let's help them. let's rescue them. meanwhile, we count 5,000 more bodies on the bottom of the mediterranean. i ask you: how many more divers do you want to fund? i will ask president juncker. how many more deaths do you want to count on the bottom of the sea? it is incredible that the president of the european commission, the president who is starving 500 million europeans, should say: you have to open the doors of the house or they'll come in through the window. but you, who pays you? who pays your salary? do you think you can uproot a billion africans by opening the doors of a continent with tens of millions of unemployed? i'm embarrassed by the level of this debate trying to find political culprits when the political culprits are in here. because now you realize that the dublin treaty needs to be changed. you confirmed that two years ago. the league voted against it, and those who are waking up now, two years ago, voted the same piece of crap. i hope i don't have to wait another 700 deaths before i hear as much leftist racist rhetoric. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i would like to say to mr salvini that he is a true master of racism, whether he agrees with the need to finance a european mare nostrum or whether he believes that those fleeing war and those fleeing hunger should die either in the middle of the war or in the middle of the sea, as he suggested when he said that he would not land the boats but would leave them in the middle of the sea. i must say that the words i have heard from mr salvini are not hypocritical but are equally disgusting.
answer to a blue-card question. do you think that a billion africans can come to europe and be welcomed in europe? you mean it, but do you believe what you're saying or did they give you a note? i think mare nostrum and triton are racist operations that fund the pirates and fund islamic terrorism. i think the only way out is to finance these countries, to help these countries not to have to run away. in june i will be going to nigeria, which is what good leftist leaders should be doing, but they are not bothering about it, because i believe that everyone should grow up, live peacefully in the country where he was born unless someone wants to replace people with other people, but this is an operation of ethnic replacement which we will oppose in every way.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. the honourable member made a concrete statement, perhaps the first, asking where the means to help refugees can be found, to help those who deserve it. i suggest that the honourable member ask commissioner juncker whether he is not going to finally start an action to recover the billions of euros which his favours to multinationals have allowed tax evasion. i agree if we use these billions of euros given to the corporations for the benefit of the poor of the world.
madam president, i accuse the council, the governments of the member states and the commission. you are now directly responsible for the crime that kills more and more migrants fleeing the wars that europe has facilitated and the persecutions that it tolerates. after the deaths of 19 april, the union too was shipwrecked in denial and blindness. it declares war on the traffickers, pretending to believe that they are the only ones responsible for so many deaths. they're not responsible; they are there because there is no legal pathway for refugees to access, because you have abolished mare nostrum, which was in charge of search and rescue on the high seas, and because you continue to fund operations like triton or poseidon, whose primary mandate is border control, not rescue of shipwrecked people. i thank you for your words, mr juncker, but the door is not open. in your desire to escape your responsibilities, you also want - i quote commissioner avramopoulos - "collaboration with dictatorships", with eritrea at the top, the worst in africa. like the traffickers, you violate the laws, the law of the sea and non-refoulement. i wonder if you know what we're doing: an undeclared war, not against the traffickers, but against the migrants. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. thank you for asking. i have spoken of all the governments of the union and i was thinking in particular of the social democratic government, as you call it in italy. it is the government most committed to the crazy idea of sinking the smugglers' ships thinking that the migrants will not escape anyway, will not look for other ways. if there is an irresponsible policy, the most irresponsible in the union is that of the italian government.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 800 deaths in the mediterranean are an unimaginable figure. it is as if we all, members of the european parliament, disappeared at the same moment, and it is only a coincidence, mr tusk, that at the bottom of the sea there is neither you nor me, it is the good fortune of being born on a continent that has chosen peace while there is still a world of war out there, a war for which we have great responsibilities. you and the other heads of state have met once again to decide not to resolve. if europe really wanted to find a solution, a european mare nostrum funded by all would be enough, humanitarian corridors would be opened, an instrument that already exists would be applied, namely directive 2001/55/ec which creates a mechanism that obliges, i stress obliges, member states to cooperate with each other for the transfer of refugees from one state to another, but this mechanism has existed since 2001 and has never been activated. you gentlemen never activated it. you speak of solidarity, you talk of sharing, but you insist on considering immigration a problem to be left to italy, spain and greece. europe is washing its hands of it. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i wanted to ask mr beghin, and i very much appreciate what he said, but certainly parliament cannot have much strength if his group is so divided that what you say, which i can agree with, has been totally refuted by your ukip colleague a short while ago. it will be very difficult for you to be clear in your support for this resolution which we very much hope you will succeed in giving.
answer to a blue-card question. i thank you. i think that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. honestly, we have a lot of responsibility. there are mechanisms that must be protected. i think we would have no great difficulty at this time. the real problem is not us, it's you. you had every opportunity to solve this problem. we will probably still be observing minutes of silence in the next plenary, because the only thing we are capable of is talking about nothing spiced with nothing and then making great minutes of silence.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. my question is very simple. i address it to my predecessor and to all of you. let's not be hypocrites anymore. which one of you wants to take home and adopt three illegals each? sign up for the presidency and we'll send them to you. then we'll see if you still feel that way.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the same west which, through military and political interventions aimed at its own interests, has in the past contributed to destabilising entire regions, including the middle east and north africa, is now seeking solutions to the problems for which it is partly responsible. i wonder if, really, by tripling triton's budget or destroying the smugglers' boats, they think they can solve what is a humanitarian crisis. we are very disappointed with the conclusions of the summit of 23 april, which proposed shameful, inadequate and insufficient measures. we believe that it is essential to set up a european mare nostrum, a search and rescue operation, immediately. if triton remains unchanged in terms of mandate, if it doesn't expand into international waters, nothing will ever change. ban ki-moon also said that there is no military solution and he points to the priority of saving lives, he talks about a holistic approach that looks at the root causes, the security of the human rights of migrants and refugees, to have legal and regular channels of immigration. i hope that the words will not be hypocritical and that they will really encourage europe to propose solutions of common sense.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i come from sicily, a border region which is obviously under great migratory pressure. i see every morning in the ports of sicily, in my own sicily, the faces of these immigrants who arrive and who are clearly the result of a journey they have made, a difficult journey through the desert, to reach the coasts and then through an even more difficult journey to the coasts of our europe. it is inconceivable that europe has not yet given a clear answer. after this tragedy we have finally seen the council act as the europe we wanted. perhaps we are beginning to realise that this is not just an italian problem, it is not a greek, spanish or maltese problem but it is a problem for all of europe. we probably have to do more. we must do more, we cannot think that the revision of the dublin regulation, the solution in foreign policy in libya and syria, the agreement on a system of compulsory quotas for refugees, a reorganization of the asylum system involving the cooperation of all the member states, the strengthening of triton and frontex, are just some of the steps, but the biggest issue we have to deal with is the issue in the countries of origin. our development cooperation, our efforts to make the growth of the countries from which these refugees come real economic growth, is a path we must take as well as a process of peace in war zones. this is the europe we want and for which we are working here.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are encouraged by president juncker's determination and by the action that federica mogherini will take. this endless exodus is born of the abandonment of africa and the unresolved conflicts in the middle east. once again, europe's history is intersecting with that of its mediterranean neighbourhood, and europe must face up to it. we're not gonna get away with turning our heads somewhere else, maybe east or across the atlantic. europe will have a strong voice in the world only if it proves capable of having a single voice close to home, a single responsibility at its borders and not betraying its values which are certainly being put to the test by this suffering humanity. it is not just the law of the sea that requires us to save lives, but european civilization that requires us to save lives, and for that reason triton is not enough, we must say so. we are now building on this common responsibility, after a disappointing council - and president tusk's intervention is also disappointing, if i may say so - an effective emergency policy, saving lives and guaranteeing humanitarian corridors, for action in the countries of transit and also of origin of these phenomena and for a shared reception in the european countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are confronting the member states with their responsibilities and we are moving beyond their inertia. let's see ourselves in the people who are fleeing the war in syria and libya from daesh and boko haram. we must have the courage to impose a migration policy consistent with europe's founding values of the primacy of human life. an appeal also to african rulers. those who passively accept evil are as responsible as those who commit it. the migration phenomenon needs a holistic approach; only by managing it in its entirety with coherent short, medium and long-term policies will it be possible to govern this continuous and unstoppable flow of people on the move. but now we're facing an emergency. thousands of human lives are being swallowed by the sea. we need a europe of our own, a humanitarian presidium in the heart of the mediterranean. tripling triton's resources is good but it is not enough, especially in the absence of a clear mandate to save lives and an adequate extension of the operational area. we give a name back to their faces and hope to those who come.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president junker has finally admitted what we have been saying for a long time, namely that italy has been abandoned and, unfortunately, so have the many migrants who have died in the mediterranean or at the hands of human traffickers. but there have also been some extremely positive things said. the proposals we strongly support are those on the redistribution of migrants in europe, the compulsory european quotas and not on a voluntary basis, this is solidarity; the amendment to dublin, that is to say a redistribution of applications for humanitarian protection, is also solidarity. as regards the destruction of the boats, i would like to raise a problem raised by a colleague who said that often and willingly, not boats but real ghost ships leave the turkish coast, full of migrants. so, what do we do with these ships? and then, finally, the legal migrants, those who flee wars for economic reasons as well. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east, but we should be concerned about the situation in the middle east. so that's why we need to be careful about this issue because we really have too many emergencies to deal with right now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office, you should know that there are two kinds of leaders. the one who makes history - and this is our europe - can include various political personalities, such as altiero spinelli, jean monnet, de gasperi, francois mitterrand, helmut koll, jacques delors, olof palme, to name a few - and then there is the one you seem to represent today, who cannot go beyond political reporting, because she lacks foresight, is incapable of planning the future for her own citizens and for those who come to europe by choice or because they are forced to do so. i have the impression that the council's conclusions are more relevant in this second dimension, with governments bowing down to fear of the judgment and public opinion of individual countries. i understand that courage is either there or it's not in the market. this parliament is asking you to take on a new awareness and a new common political vision on immigration. if you want to be a european ruling class, you have a moral obligation to listen to the european parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall not repeat what has already been said by all the groups. it is clear that we are facing a tragedy of global proportions. i think we should reflect rather than debate year after year, because we have already discussed the tragedies in the mediterranean many times and we are still unable to find practical solutions. i do not think that the council's decision is capable of dealing with this emergency. the question we should be asking is whether the intergovernmental approach we continue to use on such an important issue is sufficient to deal with what is a disaster, an emergency of truly uncontrollable proportions. that's what we should be thinking about. we are good at using the community method for everything that concerns trade, money, finance and when it comes to human lives we are talking, resolutions but we do not solve the problem. if the union is a union, it must prove it on this issue.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for the umpteenth time we are here to talk about the slaughter in the mediterranean. there was an extraordinary council with an unsatisfactory result. we are now waiting for the road map for implementation in the time and manner of what has been decided and what will be decided on 13 may. the challenge, president juncker said, was not to stop at the effect but to go to the causes. but i have not heard a clear position on the dublin review. if italy is not to be left alone to deal with a problem that is bigger than all of us, then words follow deeds and we in parliament are ready. because those who accuse us of not knowing how to fingerprint clearly say that refugees must stay in italy. instead, we need to strengthen the legal channels for what is an exodus linked to geopolitical changes that are unstoppable. we are making known to member countries that they are ready to join actions such as relocation, resettlement, legal migration. and only then can we save the migrants.
member of the commission.– mr president, honourable members of parliament, on behalf of the commission i would like to thank you indeed for this debate. it was not only a very interesting debate; allow me to qualify it as a historical debate. i would like to thank you for your suggestions. there is a momentum to act on migration, and it is our duty. it is the moment to pass from words to actions. we should not only speak about solidarity. solidarity must stop being a slogan; it has to become a reality. this is not about fortress europe, protecting the borders; this is about more capacities for search and rescue. so now we need to act quickly. indeed, as you said, frontex is taking the necessary steps to incorporate all these proposed assets in the two operations triton and poseidon as soon as possible. this strong expression of solidarity is an important step forward, but it is true that more needs to be done. it is very important to deal immediately with the crisis. we cannot accept the loss of more lives. we need to do our utmost to save lives, but dealing with migration is not only dealing with a specific crisis of a specific region. as i always said, we need a holistic approach. this is also why migration is one of the main priorities of president juncker – and it was from the very beginning of the life of this commission – as he underlined some minutes ago. the european commission, as you know, will present, on 13 may, the european agenda on migration. this agenda will develop the much-needed comprehensive approach for migration. we have to work on resettlement and relocation and to come up with concrete solutions. more is needed. the scope of the agenda will be geographically broad, since other regions also have encountered or may encounter problems in future. the mediterranean is a priority, but we should not forget – as was mentioned before – the turkey-bulgarian borders, the serbian-hungarian borders, etc. on smugglers, we have to increase our efforts with our agencies – europol, frontex, easo, emsa and eurojust – to gather information on smugglers’ modus operandi, to trace their funds, and to assist in their investigation. also, we have to intensify our efforts to engage with countries of origin and transit. in transit countries, we need to find ways to build the necessary infrastructure where migrants can feel safe and not take dangerous journeys to europe. yes, we will have to look at the dublin system to see whether it works. for me it is an open issue, and we will come back to it. moreover, the agenda will focus on legal migration and especially the ‘blue card’. the debate today, as i said, was very important, and what happened in the last few days is a clear sign of solidarity to save lives. we must implement our decisions swiftly and, at the same time, look at mid-term and long-term solutions. we need to do all this together – both the eu institutions and the member states. the european agenda on migration is the next opportunity for action. let me finish by making a comment, since many of you referred to what happened in indonesia. last week the european council also discussed the issue of the death penalty, referring to the case of the french citizen, serge atlaoui, in indonesia. i want to be clear on this: for the european union the death penalty is never the answer. (applause)
president of the european council.– mr president, the situation in the mediterranean is deeply dramatic and frustrating for everyone. everyone – not only the people in this room, but also leaders across europe – have been touched by this tragedy and the level of human suffering involved. europe did not cause this calamity. it is caused by poverty, war, instability, failing states and a population boom in africa. it is, of course, not acceptable that hundreds of people die when trying to cross the sea to europe. neither can we open our doors to everyone. that is the dilemma we must deal with in the coming months. we must manage it as best and as humanely as possible. there are longer term solutions to these problems, such as more targeted development aids, but for now our efforts have been focused on saving lives. we are immediately increasing the search and rescue capacity of eu border operations in the mediterranean. take a look at exactly where triton has carried out rescue operations: you will see how close to libya they have already been. the scope of these missions is going to increase in line with the massive increase in resources and frontex will, in the days to come, have discussions with the italian authorities about enlarging the main patrol area. we are going after the smugglers, who are the real culprits – criminals, in fact – and we have already sent an important message about our readiness to act. we are getting serious about cooperation with countries of origin and transit, including by inviting the relevant african leaders to a summit in malta. we have advanced the difficult debate over resettlement, relocation and the need to have a better functioning european asylum system. according to many of your interventions, our meeting last week decided too little. prime minister renzi said after the meeting, and i quote, ‘europe has shown serious commitment. for the first time, there is a shared strategic approach’. similarly, joseph muscat of malta said, ‘there is a new sense of resolve. what happened last week has definitely changed the mood in the european council and in member states’. in this case, i will respect the opinions of the leaders in the countries most affected.
i have received seven motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 29 april 2015. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the recent tragedies in the mediterranean, the capsized boats and the drowned refugees have been a waste of words and statements. the epp held a debate in milan last week to try to draw up its own guidelines on immigration. i would just like to reiterate a concept that never seems to be repeated enough: the european union must stand together to face this tragedy. the key word is 'solidarity'. the problem is first of all the poor people who die at sea under overturned boats, then those who remain on land to die of hunger and hardship and then ours, the countries that receive them and who no longer know how to guarantee these people a decent life. the problem and the tragedy are everyone's and everyone's so we have to deal with it, not just because a document asks us to, but because it is our duty as free men. so it doesn't matter where the boat docks, as long as it can get there. all the countries of the european union must take care of those who are fleeing their country, trying to understand who are war refugees and who are criminals fleeing from justice.
ladies and gentlemen, it is with great pleasure that we welcome our colleague vian dakheel to the iraqi parliament. no one will ever forget her stirring speech last august in the parliament hall of her country calling for action to free yazidi women captured by the so-called islamic state. mr dakheel is accompanied by a delegation of fellow iraqis from the yazidi community who have been victims of isis, namely mrs dilyaar saeed jazaa, mrs aesh taha othman and mr khorsheed othman yousif. we all pay tribute to your courage and assure you of our full support for the struggle and the right of the yazidi people to live in dignity and to profess their faith freely. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which i hope will be a success.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other details on the votes: see minutes)
mr president, with your name, i think it is only natural to allow a few colleagues a moment of courtesy. so i thank you for your understanding, they're already distributing, a little courtesy in a parliament is granted. they asked for a minute, so i think it's only fair to give it to them. they're already distributing it, so we can start voting. thank you for your understanding, everyone.
i am the first victim, mr rübig, of this calendar, and i understand your point, but when the agenda is drawn up, it sometimes happens that there are more than one text. i will try to be as quick as possible and ask for your understanding and support for this day.
the interpretation is up to the presidency, and i announced before the vote what would happen.
written declarations of vote
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are reports calling for the discharge to be postponed. so those we should, i think, at least vote on separately, right?
mr tarabella, thank you, i am sorry but there are too many objections, too many complications, let us vote on everything first.
the rapporteur asks for a postponement. let's put the motion to a vote. the request for referral has been granted. so it's referred back to committee.
i'm sorry, but we already voted. so they were up too late. that was very clear, very obvious.
oral explanations of vote
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ i believe that this text contains excessive criticism of the member states and could undoubtedly have been more incisive towards the activities of the european commission itself, i did not intend to endorse the discharge to this institution with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european commission and the executive agencies play a pivotal role in the institutional system of the european union and, therefore, they should properly funded. moreover the commission implemented its budget in accordance with the political priorities that were decided for the year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the measure under vote calls for the discharge to be granted. i voted against, i am strongly against.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors' opinion on the reliability of the regularity of payments was not positive, and i therefore voted against the decision to grant discharge.
in writing. ‒ considering that, pursuant to article 17 (1) teu, the commission implements the budget and manages programmes and that, pursuant to article 317 tfeu, it implements the budget in cooperation with the member states, under its own responsibility, in accordance with the principle of sound financial management, i voted in favour of granting discharge to the commission and the executive agencies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the budget of the european commission and executive agencies because the tasks carried out by the agencies are very important and have a direct impact on the daily lives of citizens. in particular, decentralised agencies have been created with the main purpose of carrying out technical, scientific or supervisory tasks to assist the eu institutions in the formulation and implementation of eu policies. i think their budget reflects the mandate given to them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the general budget of the european union, including the discharge for the commission and the executive agencies. in view of the positive opinion of the court of auditors and in the absence of serious irregularities and errors, i considered it appropriate to approve the document in question.
in writing. ‒ i am against the discharge as the court has established, on the basis of its own checks, that the most likely error rate in 2013 was 4,7% of payments: for the 20th time, the court of auditors has not been able to give a positive statement of assurance on the legality and regularity of payments. all areas of operational expenditure contributed to this increase, but the agricultural policy group remains the most error-prone, but in a marked improvement over the past, followed by the regional policy, energy and transport group with an estimated error rate of 6.9%. in 2013, financial corrections reported as implemented amounted to eur 2,5 billion, while recoveries remained substantially constant at around eur 900 million. the report analyses in detail the situation of the various sectoral policies where critical issues have been identified: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme, in particular in the areas of agriculture, regional policy, energy and transport, external relations, employment and social affairs, with a particular focus on the member states where the most critical problems have been identified.
in writing. - i vote against the resolution. the vote is a political judgment against the commission and the failed policies the eu is pursuing.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mrs ingeborg gräßle, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section iii commission and executive agencies. with this vote, the european parliament confirms the accuracy and the detailed analysis which your colleague has given us, after an important work of verifying the transparency of the main community executive bodies. i welcome this important exercise in democratic transparency and accountability.
in writing. i have chosen to vote in favour of mr gräßle's report on the general budget of the eu with regard to the commission and its executive agencies. i welcome the fact that the annual accounts of the european union for the financial year 2013 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the union as at 31 december 2013, and i note with satisfaction that the revenue underlying the accounts for the year ended 31 december 2013 is, in all material respects, legitimate and regular.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the 2013 discharge report: the general budget of the eu european commission and executive agencies. it is certainly a good thing that the commission has managed the union budget well. however, there are still a number of areas for improvement, such as the concept of additionality which parliament defended in the negotiations on the development cooperation instrument but which has not yet been confirmed. it is very positive that 40 countries have committed themselves to improving joint programming at union level, this shows a will for synergy and confirms a positive trend.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report in question, which specifically concerns the discharge to be given to the european commission and its executive agencies for the financial year 2013. meps examine the budget of the european commission and the other executive agencies in a procedure known as discharge. over the years, the procedure has become a very important tool for checking how public funds have been spent. the european parliament has the exclusive right to approve the implementation of the budget of the european institutions after its committee on budgetary control has carefully examined the accounts. having regard to the court's report on the annual accounts of the european commission and the executive agencies for the financial year 2013, and having regard to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i have decided to support the request of the rapporteur, mr czarnecki, to grant discharge.
in writing. ‒ considering that, pursuant to article 17 (1) of the treaty on european union, the commission implements the budget and manages programmes and that, pursuant to article 317 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, it implements the budget in cooperation with the member states, under its own responsibility, in accordance with the principle of sound financial management, and that it grants the director of the executive agency for small and medium-sized enterprises (formerly the executive agency for competitiveness and innovation) discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the executive agency for the financial year 2013, i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that there was a high rate of implementation of commitment appropriations for mobility and transport policy in 2013. in order to be fully transparent, the commission should publish an annual list of transport projects co-financed by the union, indicating all eu funding sources, such as ten-t, horizon 2020 and regional cohesion funds. it would also be useful for the commission to achieve greater synergy between the different sources of funding for a better allocation of union funds. i am in general in favour of granting the commission discharge for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the 2013 discharge to the european commission and the executive agencies. i agree with the report by mrs ingeborg gräßle, who stresses the need for greater transparency on the part of the member states. the european union has no money to waste.
in writing. i voted against the decision proposing to grant discharge to the european commission because, for the 20th time in a row, the court of auditors has not been able to give a positive statement of assurance on the legality and regularity of payments. the court also found, on the basis of its own verifications, that the most likely error rate in 2013 was 4,7% of payments and all areas of operational expenditure contributed to this increase. the agriculture policy group continues to be the most error prone, followed by the regional, energy and transport policy group with an estimated error rate of 6.9%. these rates of error are unacceptable, since we are talking about european taxpayers' money. finally, it should be stressed that there is still a long way to go in the field of performance evaluation: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the implementation of the budget.
oral explanations of vote
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ the youth employment initiative (yei) is one of the union's instruments for achieving the policy objectives of the youth guarantee in areas most affected by youth unemployment. although i believe that the impact of this initiative can be improved, i share the views expressed by my colleague in this report and i therefore intend to support her with my vote.
in writing. ‒ following the discussion of the european commission's proposal during the february plenary session, we are voting today to make the proposal a reality and to make €1 billion of pre-financing available to member states immediately for the launch of the youth employment initiative programmes. in addition to the availability of funding, an important novelty is introduced. prefinancing of programmes may amount to 30% of the cost of individual programmes, compared with 1% previously. this is a measure which i support and which is going in the right direction, increasing flexibility at community level to put the member states in the best position to promote initiatives and programmes geared to development and social integration.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this resolution because the levels of youth unemployment are alarmingly high and it is our duty to find a solution to this issue. i believe that tackling unemployment should be the no. 1 priority for the european institutions and approving this resolution is a step in the right direction.
in writing. - i voted yes. any initiative to combat youth unemployment will have my support.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1304/2013 of the european parliament and of the council on the european social fund, as regards an increase of eur 1 billion in the initial pre-financing paid to operational programmes supported by the youth employment initiative. the youth unemployment rate has now reached a dramatic level. the european union has put at the disposal of the member states various instruments to combat this scourge affecting our younger generations. the youth employment initiative is one of the instruments put in place to try to achieve the policy objectives of the youth guarantee in the areas most affected by youth unemployment. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal whereby the european commission has decided to release eur 1 billion to finance projects in the areas which need it most.
in writing. ‒ the problem of unemployment has reached dramatic proportions in recent years. to tackle the employment crisis, the eu has put at the disposal of the member states instruments to promote youth employment, such as the youth guarantee programme. the commission's proposed pre-financing is to speed up the process of starting up these projects, by raising the rate from 1% to 30%, guaranteeing almost €1 billion for unemployed young people. unfortunately, however, it must be noted how far behind italy is and how little it has done to support this initiative. the court of auditors has recently submitted a report which shows that the programme has not brought any benefit to young italians.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased to support and vote in favour of the report by my colleague elisabeth morin-chartier on the increase in the european commission's pre-financing of operational programmes supported by the youth employment initiative. in some member states the unemployment situation has reached dramatic levels and is unfortunately continuing to worsen. in my own country, italy, we see that in march alone the number of unemployed rose by 59 000 compared with february. over the last 12 months the number of unemployed has increased by 4.4%. many of these are young people who, after finishing their studies, are unable to find a first useful job. the youth employment initiative put forward by the european commission is a tool to combat this phenomenon, but so far it has not proved fully effective because often, precisely in the member states which need it most, the public funds needed for projects offering young people jobs, traineeships or training are lacking. the european commission has taken note of this and has decided to release €1 billion quickly. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply, but i think it is a very good thing that he has not yet made his statement.
in writing. ‒ the increasingly alarming and steadily rising rate of youth unemployment is a sad scourge of our time, affecting the younger generations in most european countries. too many young people are forced into inactivity and social exclusion because they are not engaged in work, training or study, often through no fault of their own. the european union must stand by the younger generations and the states in tackling this problem. the proposal to mobilise the resources allocated to the youth employment initiative as quickly as possible, overcoming the delays in implementation due to budgetary constraints which many states have had to face in the recent past, can therefore only be welcomed. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union by the european schools network (esn) and the european schools network (esn) in the member states. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the youth unemployment rate has reached dramatic levels and, in many cases, the instruments made available to member states have been poorly used by member states. one of the main difficulties faced by member states is the lack of public funds to start projects which offer young people jobs, traineeships or training. the member states most affected by youth unemployment are also those which have the greatest difficulty in obtaining co-financing. the aim of this proposal is to promote youth employment by releasing eur 1 billion. in order to speed up this procedure, parliament decided not to make any amendments to the proposal for a regulation submitted by the commission. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to allow member states to use, as quickly as possible, an additional allocation to finance projects for youth employment in the areas that need it most. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i would therefore like to congratulate the european commission on its continued commitment to combating unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, and on its determination to see the objectives of the youth guarantee achieved.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to amend the european social fund regulation to increase the pre-financing initially provided for operational programmes supported by the youth employment initiative. i believe that in view of the dramatic levels of youth unemployment and the ineffectiveness of the instruments which the european union has put in place so far, the institutions should make every possible effort to help solve the problem of youth unemployment. in this regard, i welcome the commission's decision to release from 2015 around eur 1 billion already programmed under the youth employment initiative; i consider the willingness of parliament to adopt the proposal quickly to be a demonstration of responsibility and commitment. i hope that national governments will now do their part by making the fight against youth unemployment a top priority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i support the importance of initiatives such as the youth guarantee, which provides for a set of measures to accelerate the transition from school to work in the member states and to help create jobs for young people.
in writing. ‒ i voted with conviction for the amendment to the european social fund regulation which provided for an increase in the initial pre-financing paid to operational programmes supported by the youth employment initiative. the difficulties encountered by the managing authorities in co-financing the youth guarantee have so far prevented its full use. the proposed change, from a pre-financing rate of 1% to 30%, thirty times higher than originally planned, is therefore a first significant policy response to support the young europeans aged 15 to 29 targeted by the initiative. eur 1 billion will therefore be available to member states to cover their spending commitments under the youth guarantee. italy will receive 175 million instead of the 5.6 million initially planned. it is now necessary to ensure that this availability is soon effective and that member states and regions make intelligent use of it by financing initiatives of strategic importance for the economically weaker territories.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure increasing the pre-financing rate of the youth employment initiative. youth unemployment has reached a dramatic level and is constantly increasing, and i hope that these resources will be released as soon as possible to give a real boost to the creation of new jobs.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the text allocating increased resources to the youth employment initiative (yei), which is one of the union's instruments for achieving the policy objectives of the youth guarantee in the areas most affected by youth unemployment. unfortunately, this facility, available to regions with an unemployment rate of over 25% for young people aged 15 to 25, has not been sufficiently used by the member states. one reason for this misuse is the lack of public funds to start projects that offer young people jobs, traineeships or training. the member states most affected by youth unemployment are also those which have the greatest difficulty in obtaining co-financing.
in writing. i welcome the work and the excellent proposal of the commission on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1304/2013 on the european social fund by providing for an increase in the initial pre-financing for operational programmes in favour of youth employment by eur 1 billion in 2015. this increase will allow a considerable shift from 1% to 30% of the prefinancing rate, allowing member states which had difficulties in using the fund due to lack of cofinancing to finally be able to access and exploit the momentum of the fund thanks to a more balanced and facilitated ratio. i am also pleased that the rapporteur, my colleague elisabeth morin-chartier and the shadow rapporteurs have approached the proposal with such foresight and responsibility that it has been adopted and resolved as quickly as possible, in the pure interest of enabling the union to provide new signals and support in the fight against youth unemployment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to amend the regulation authorising pre-financing for operational programmes supported by the youth employment initiative, to allow member states to launch essential projects to promote youth employment, a problem particularly acute in some member states of the european union. accelerating and increasing the capacity of states to use the youth initiative, particularly in those regions where the unemployment rate is above 25% among young people aged 15-25 and the scheme has not been properly used, is of key importance in order to create a reversal in the youth unemployment figures. many member states have had difficulty in implementing this mechanism in recent years because they did not have sufficient public funds to start projects aimed at creating new jobs for young people, apprenticeships or vocational training. the ep welcomed the commission's proposal to release €1 billion, which meant that the pre-financing rate for the 2015 operational programmes relating to the esf could be increased from 1% to 30%. it is now up to the regions to demonstrate their capacity to plan and implement the youth employment initiative in particular.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have given my favourable opinion to mrs morin-chartier's proposal. in particular, the report shares the strategic policy objectives of supporting youth employment at a time of severe economic crisis such as the present one. the funds covered by this report will finance important proposals to promote and support young unemployed people who are not in training or in training in the european regions most affected by this problem. i think this is a very important step to show our young people that we are with them and that we are trying to do everything possible to provide them with resources and opportunities to promote youth employment and to give them all the tools they need to become independent and to enter the world of work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on an increase in the initial pre-financing paid to operational programmes supported by the youth employment initiative. this initiative is a major european instrument to strengthen and accelerate measures to support the development of skills and qualifications, to achieve the policy objectives of the youth guarantee and to reduce youth unemployment, which at european level is still above 20%.
in writing. ‒ in order to combat the increase in youth unemployment, the european union has put support instruments at the disposal of its member states. the first of these is the youth employment initiative. to enable member states to launch concrete projects, the european commission has decided to release €1 billion for this initiative. i have welcomed the morin-chartier report, because it supports the european commission's proposal to encourage the member states to use this additional allocation quickly.
in writing. ‒ we vote in favour of this draft resolution which makes available additional funds to facilitate the transition of young people from school to work and to reduce youth unemployment as much as possible.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the rate of youth unemployment in europe has reached dramatic levels. the european union has put at the disposal of the member states various instruments, including the youth employment initiative, to achieve the policy objectives of the youth guarantee in the areas most affected by this phenomenon. it is with great regret that we have to note that this instrument, which is intended for regions with a rate of unemployment of over 25% for young people aged 15 to 25, has unfortunately not been used sufficiently. one reason is certainly the lack of public funds to start projects that offer young people jobs, traineeships or training. we therefore welcome the european commission's proposal to allocate eur 1 billion under the youth employment initiative for pre-financing these projects from 2015 onwards, with the aim of encouraging member states to use the additional allocation more quickly to finance projects in areas where it is most needed. for this reason, we have considered it necessary to make this regulation applicable as soon as possible and have decided not to make any changes to it.
in writing. ‒ the report, signed by mrs morin-chartier, describes the european commission's proposal for a regulation amending regulation 1304/2013 on the european social fund. the project aims to add an article to chapter iv on the youth employment initiative in order to increase the amount of pre-financing available to member states to promote youth employment and provide support to young people who are unemployed and not in education or training (neets). currently, member states are facing difficulties in providing the funds needed to implement operations under the youth employment initiative (yei). the situation is particularly problematic in member states with higher levels of youth unemployment. for the reasons mentioned above, i have decided to support the text proposed by the european commission in order to facilitate a more rapid adoption of the funds of eur 1 billion.
in writing. ‒ mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased with the report adopted by parliament which provides for a substantial increase in the prefinancing of the european social fund for the programmes of the youth employment initiative, and for which i voted in favour. this initiative is intended to send a strong signal from europe - and from parliament in particular - to its young people, and at the same time to send a clear message to the member states. i believe that the economic crisis will not be over until we see a substantial improvement in the youth unemployment figures. for this reason, policies to support and help the younger generation remain a top priority for us. europe has chosen to invest in young people because it has confidence in their abilities, and it recommends that national governments do the same, by making available all the possible instruments and making constructive use of these funds.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for the work he has done and hope that i have made a contribution.
in writing. ‒ to date, youth unemployment in europe remains very high, with 4.85 million young people under 25 without a job. the youth guarantee, the €6 billion programme to help unemployed young people in the regions most affected by the crisis, is one of the tools the eu has put at the disposal of member states to combat this phenomenon that is affecting our younger generations so badly. unfortunately, this initiative does not seem to have started on the right foot, mainly because of the slow transfer of funds from the eu to individual countries, which remain unable to start projects that offer young people jobs, traineeships or training. this proposal, which i voted for, which provides for the immediate release and availability of an additional eur 1 billion for the prefinancing of operational programmes for 2015, is an important step forward in the fight against youth unemployment. the change from a prefinancing rate of 1% to 30% is proof that europe is doing its part; it is now up to the member states to make the best use of these resources to provide new opportunities for young people.
in writing. ‒ youth unemployment has reached a dramatic rate in the eu and shows no sign of abating. i believe that all possible means and measures must be made available to the member states to combat this tragic problem affecting the young generations of europeans who represent the future of the eu. i therefore welcome the initiative to promote youth employment in the areas most affected by youth unemployment. unfortunately, in the past some sms have not used this facility, often because of the lack of public funds for the start-up of projects and the difficulty of obtaining co-financing. i welcome the commission's initiative to release additional funds for youth employment in order to increase the appropriation.
in writing. ‒ with today's approval, the european union has launched a regulation that increases the pre-financing rate of the youth employment initiative by 30 times. this regulation will make eur 1 billion available immediately to all the member states, which will thus be able to supplement their youth programmes, and will allocate eur 175 million instead of eur 5.6 million to italy.
in writing. i decided to vote in favour because the youth employment initiative (yei) is one of the union's instruments for achieving the policy objectives of the youth guarantee in the areas most affected by youth unemployment. unfortunately, this facility, available to regions with an unemployment rate of over 25% for young people aged 15 to 25, has not been sufficiently used by the member states. one reason for this misuse is the lack of public funds to start projects that offer young people jobs, traineeships or training. the member states most affected by youth unemployment are also those which have the greatest difficulty in obtaining co-financing. the european commission has decided to release €1 billion for prefinancing operational programmes from 2015, bringing the prefinancing rate from 1% to 30%.
in writing. ‒ i fully supported parliament's decision to adopt the commission's proposal without introducing amendments which would certainly have delayed the application of this important regulation aimed at increasing the pre-financing rate of the youth employment initiative. i expect the member states to make every effort to allocate this additional appropriation quickly, making this funding available to the beneficiaries as soon as the specific operational programmes are adopted. this measure could affect between 350 000 and 650 000 young people this year. these figures are significant when we consider that in december 2014 the number of unemployed young people up to 25 years of age in the european union was around 5 million, of which over 3.2 million were in the euro area. i have therefore decided to give my support and vote in favour of this measure in the hope that it will help to give a real boost to employment and to restore confidence to our young people through the creation of new jobs.
in writing. ‒ the amendments to the european social fund rules approved today provide for €1 billion of funding in 2015 to help member states to bring up to 650 000 young people into work. we are in a race against time and europe is accelerating on youth employment. the challenge was to reach a broad and shared agreement in record time and with today's vote we have shown that when we are determined europe is effective.
in writing. despite the fact that the youth guarantee initiative has many shortcomings, as also pointed out by the court of auditors, which raised the alarm by drawing attention to the poor quality of the job offers offered and the current mismanagement of the european funds under the youth guarantee, i nevertheless considered it appropriate to express my support in view of the seriousness of the pan-european situation and the goodness of the initiative linked to pre-financing. the commission's proposal was to make available one billion euro this year for youth employment, and italy and other member states with serious employment problems were among the beneficiary countries. i believe that careful monitoring is essential if the resources the eu makes available are to be used efficiently and effectively.
in writing. i voted today in favour of the regulation on the youth employment initiative. the regulation provides for the increase of pre-financing funds allocated in 2015. i find the planned increase extremely timely, it is important to tackle the problem of youth unemployment in a timely manner and the planned allocation is a first step in that direction. i would like to conclude by pointing out that the commission's proposal to increase the prefinancing of yei programmes reflects a request originally put forward by the s&d group.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour of this proposal because the regulation (eec) no 3030/93 has lost its purpose since all its provisions either expired or were replaced by new ones. therefore this regulation is redundant and should be repealed.
in writing. i wanted to support the lange report, which is moving towards a reduction in regulation by eliminating an outdated and obsolete regulation.
in writing. - i voted for repeal. the measure which you are requesting to be cancelled is now obsolete because of bilateral agreements. the measure is in the direction of reducing regulations and has my support.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the proposal for the repeal of regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on the common system of importation of certain textile products from third countries. as is well known, the effectiveness of council regulation (eec) no 3030/93, which has been applied since 1 january 1993, has been affected by the following legislative developments: - the russian federation has joined the world trade organisation. as a result, the republic of serbia remained the last country with which the european union had a bilateral agreement on trade in textile products; - the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, has been signed; - the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters between the european community, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, has entered into force; it follows that regulation (eec) no 3030/93 has since ceased to apply to imports from serbia. - in addition, the period of validity of title i of council regulation (ec) no 427/2003 has expired; regulation (eec) no 3030/93 should therefore be repealed in order to protect legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ following russia's accession to the wto and the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia, regulation (eec) no 3030/93 has lost its usefulness. it was also used to impose quantitative limits on imports of certain textile products from china for a limited period, and thus to implement the transitional safeguard mechanism for certain chinese products. this aspect also ended its life cycle on 11 december 2013. i therefore voted for repeal.
in writing. ‒ council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on common rules for imports of certain textile products originating in third countries applies to imports of textile products originating in third countries with which the european community has concluded bilateral agreements, signed protocols or concluded other agreements. in recent years, the european union has maintained bilateral agreements on trade in textile products only with russia and serbia. following the accession of the russian federation to the wto and the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) with serbia, the main purpose of the regulation has been lost. it is therefore called for to be repealed. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of repealing the regulation in question, as it has now been emptied of any real purpose and is therefore a case of legislative obsolescence. this regulation allowed the import of textile products made in third countries with which the eu has concluded bilateral agreements, protocols or other agreements. in the past, the european union has had bilateral agreements on trade in textiles with the russian federation and the republic of serbia, and the import regime was governed by the regulation. following the accession of russia to the wto and the entry into force of the accession and stabilisation agreement with serbia, the regulation has been deprived of all purpose. quantitative restrictions on certain textile products were introduced in 2008 against china on the basis of the measures provided for in the regulation, however, attempts to safeguard trade in textiles from china failed in 2013, therefore i consider that in the presence of these conditions it is appropriate to repeal the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to repeal regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on the arrangements applicable to imports from certain third countries. it is considered that the regulation in question applied only to those countries which had concluded bilateral agreements, signed protocols or agreements of different types with the european union, that in recent years bilateral agreements remained in force only with the russian federation and the republic of serbia, that russia joined the wto in august 2012 and that since september 2013 the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia also started to take effect. it follows that regulation no 3030/93 was no longer useful for regulating trade relations with those two countries. after the trade in textile products between europe and china was also fully liberalised as of december 2013, it made no sense to maintain the above mentioned regulation, and i therefore voted in favour of its repeal.
in writing. ‒ i voted to repeal the regulation because i believe that after russia's accession to the wto and the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia, regulation (eec) no 3030/93 has lost its usefulness. the same utility was also lost in the case of the transitional safeguard mechanism for certain chinese products which ended on 11 december 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the repeal of council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on the common system of import arrangements for certain textile products originating in third countries with which the european union has concluded bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements. the regulation has become obsolete as the eu has maintained bilateral agreements on trade in textile products only with the russian federation and the republic of serbia, although these agreements did not provide for any concrete measures in practice. following the accession of the russian federation to the wto in august 2012 and the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement with the republic of serbia in september 2013, the regulation no longer meets its initial objective. i therefore consider it essential to ensure legal certainty and support the proposal to repeal the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of repealing the regulation which has become obsolete. the measure is designed to reduce regulation by removing a regulation which no longer makes sense to keep in force because of bilateral agreements, protocols or other types of negotiations which the european union has in the meantime established with third countries.
in writing. i voted unanimously in favour of the proposal for a regulation repealing the regulation on common rules for imports of certain textile products originating in third countries. this may seem to be a minor and technical measure, but it will make a major contribution to the internal market and consumer safety.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the overall proposal to rationalise the rules applicable to imports of certain textile products originating in third countries and in particular the proposal to revise them voted on at this plenary session, i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for the repeal of regulation (eec) no 3030/93.
in writing. i voted in favour of repealing council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on the common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries, because i believe that this regulation must now be repealed. for this reason the commission's proposal was unanimously accepted by the inta (international trade) committee.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to repeal the regulation on common rules for imports of certain textile products originating in third countries. the regulation applies to imports of textile products originating in third countries with which the european community has concluded bilateral agreements, signed protocols or concluded other arrangements and provides, as an import regime, for a double-checking system for the management of quantitative limits, for products subject to surveillance, a control system for products subject to simple surveillance and an ex post surveillance.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to provide a codification of regulation (ec) no 517/94 of 7 march 1994 on common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other provisions, or by any other specific community import rules. since the content of the wałęsa report is merely a codification of existing texts, without making any substantial changes to them, i thought it appropriate to support it by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this proposal for a regulation. it is simply a technical recast which is intended to codify an existing regulation on common rules on surveillance and safeguard measures, which has been substantially amended on several occasions. we believe it is important to establish clearly what all the safeguard and surveillance instruments are that can be applied to imports of products, including coal and steel, but excluding their scope of application to the textile sector, for which there is a separate regulation. furthermore, this regulation applies only to a limited number of countries, in particular to azerbaijan, belarus, kazakhstan, north korea, turkmenistan and uzbekistan. the main change concerns the update of the annex which aims to remove some countries which have now become wto members, namely armenia, russia, tajikistan and vietnam.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to repeal council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on the common rules for imports of certain textile products originating in third countries with which the european community has concluded bilateral agreements, signed protocols or other agreements. in recent years, the eu has only maintained bilateral agreements on trade in textiles with russia and serbia, although these agreements do not provide for any concrete measures. following the accession of russia to the wto on 22 august 2012 and the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia on 1 september 2013, regulation (eec) no 3030/93 has ceased to apply. in view of the foregoing considerations, and as this is a technical report which is limited to a procedure for obsolescence of a regulation which no longer has any reason to be maintained, i have decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for the work he has done and hope that i have made a contribution.
in writing. ‒ in this case, the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council simply repeals regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on the common system of importation of certain textile products originating in third countries. the committee on international trade had given a favourable opinion in its report. and that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the repeal of the eec regulation on the common system of importation of certain textile products from third countries. the decision to repeal this regulation is based on the fact that it is now an entirely obsolete text which only concerns those countries which have bilateral agreements with the eu on trade in textile products. to date, only the russian federation and serbia have maintained such agreements, but after russia's accession to the wto in 2012 and the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia in 2013, the council regulation no longer has any reason to exist. the regulation is also obsolete in relation to the chinese textile market, which is why i voted to repeal it.
in writing. the vote was in favour of the regulation, which has become obsolete as a result of bilateral agreements, protocols or other types of negotiations which the eu has concluded with third countries in the meantime. russia and serbia were the last countries to which these technical standards applied, but with russia's entry into the wto (2012) and the entry into force of the eu-serbia association and stabilisation agreement (2013), they became obsolete. the measure therefore goes in the direction of reducing regulation by eliminating a regulation which, at present, no longer makes sense to keep in force.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ the safeguard measures provided for in the eu-norway agreement do not pose a problem for our production fabric. norway is a country to which our companies have the opportunity to export in sectors such as agriculture and agri-food in general, and that is why i have voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because, in the interests of clarity and transparency of union law, and in accordance with the provisions of the interinstitutional agreement of the european parliament, the council and the commission of 1994, regulation (ecc) 1692/73 should be codified.
in writing. - i voted yes. this is a mere technical procedure which does not introduce any change in substance, only formal changes, while the safeguard measures provided for in the eu-norway agreement do not represent a problem for the italian production fabric. norway is a country to which our companies have the opportunity to export in sectors such as agriculture, agri-foodstuffs and others.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway. in the present case, i consider that: - on 14 may 1973, an agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway (hereinafter referred to as 'the agreement') was signed in brussels. - it is necessary to lay down detailed rules for the implementation of the safeguard clauses and conservation measures referred to in articles 22 to 27 of the agreement. - the implementation of the bilateral safeguard clauses of the agreement requires uniform conditions for the adoption of safeguard measures. those measures should be adopted in accordance with regulation (eu) no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council. consequently, council regulation (eec) no 1692/73 has been substantially amended several times. for the sake of clarity and rationality, it should be codified. i also believe that, according to the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question is merely a codification of existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ this is the codification of the measures provided for in the agreement, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the measure codifies the existing texts, without substantial changes, concerning the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement with norway and is therefore of a technical nature. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i attach great importance to simplifying and clarifying the wording of eu legislation so that it is more understandable and accessible to citizens. this objective cannot be achieved as long as the innumerable provisions, which have been amended several times and often substantially, remain scattered, forcing those wishing to consult them to look for them both in the original act and in the amending acts. it is therefore essential to codify provisions which have been frequently amended if the legislation is to be clear and transparent. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution because the new regulation on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway replaces the various regulations it incorporates, preserves the substance of the acts being codified in full and therefore merely brings them together by making only the formal changes necessary for the purpose of the codification.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to codify council regulation (eec) no 1692/73 of 25 june 1973 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway. the new regulation adopted replaces the previous ones and incorporates their contents in full without altering their substance, with the obvious advantage of bringing together all the existing rules in this field in a single legislative text. i particularly agree with the emphasis on the importance of codification, since it provides certainty as to the law applicable to a given subject at a given time.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal, which is merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this small and purely technical procedure which does not introduce any substantive changes but only formal amendments.
in writing. ‒ since this is only a codification of rules relating to bilateral agreements on which there is no problem, as also pointed out by the advisory group, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i am pleased that the legal services consultative group has agreed in good time to the transposition of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway, considering it to be a simple proposal for the codification of existing texts, without any changes in the content.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the duda report, which aims to codify the regulation on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement with norway. the proposal is aimed at codifying existing texts and therefore has my support.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the proposal is to initiate the codification of council regulation (eec) no 1692/73 of 25 june 1973 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway. codification provides certainty as to the law applicable to a particular matter at a particular time. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to provide a codification of council regulation (eec) no 1692/73 of 25 june 1973 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway. since the content of the duda report is merely a codification of existing texts, without making any substantial changes to them, i have decided to support it by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this proposal for a regulation on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway, given that, during its examination, the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has concluded that the proposal in question is limited to a mere codification of the existing texts, without making any substantial changes to its content.
in writing. ‒ the codification of provisions which have been frequently amended over time is necessary if community legislation is to be fully in line with the principles of clarity and transparency. in this connection, the purpose of this proposal is to initiate the codification of the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the eec and norway. in view of the foregoing considerations and as this is a technical report which does not introduce any innovation in its content but merely codifies existing texts, i have decided to welcome it.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for the work he has done and hope that i have made a contribution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway because, according to the opinion issued on 17/9/2014 by the consultative working party of the legal services of the ep, the ec, and the council, the proposal for a regulation is simply a codification of the existing texts, without any substantive changes.
in writing. i decided to vote in favour because the safeguard measures provided for in the eu-norway agreement do not represent a problem for the italian production fabric. in fact, norway is a country to which our companies have the opportunity (also thanks to this type of agreement) to develop exports in sectors such as agriculture and agri-food.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ i did not intend to support the report by mr duda with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted yes to this report because i believe that the codification of regulation 1616/2006 serves the interests of clarity and rationality of union law, and will, also, improve relations between the eu and albania.
in writing. - i voted against it. i confirm my opposition to the order of origin.
in writing. ‒as there are no criticisms or controversial aspects to the text, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the openness and cooperation of the countries that are now members of the union, and of the union as such, with the countries that are geographically closest to them has always been and is still of the utmost importance, both from the economic and political point of view. this openness and cooperation has resulted in a number of cooperation initiatives which have led to significant progress on both sides. the republic of albania is a partner of many countries of the union, having long established channels of cooperation with individual member states, and it is a country of strong growth, whose hopes are linked above all to the preparation and creativity of the younger generations. in the interest of all actors involved, it is important to ensure the accessibility and comprehensibility of the rules on cooperation between the union and its member states, on the one hand, and the republic of albania, on the other. to this end, the relevant european legislation needed to be simplified and made clearer: the regulation we have voted on is designed to do this, replacing and incorporating a number of previous regulations, whilst fully preserving their substance. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the measure codifies the existing texts, without substantial changes, concerning the stabilisation and association agreement with albania and is therefore of a technical nature. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulation on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of albania, of the other part, because i agree with the need to simplify the existing texts and i am convinced that this agreement can further strengthen albania's position as an official candidate for accession to the european union. this is the codification of an existing agreement which has not been substantially amended, but this does not mean that albania must not continue to implement reforms, which is a sine qua non for eu membership.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 2014 progress report on albania. i agree with the position expressed by the european parliament on this matter. in particular, i share the call for strengthening the professionalism and administrative capacity of local government, which are fundamental prerequisites for the effective implementation of reforms and for an efficient and sustainable management of public finances. i join the call for a more serious effort to combat drug trafficking in the balkans, also in cooperation with the european police authorities, and the hope that we will soon achieve full respect for fundamental rights such as freedom of the press and the establishment of a climate of peaceful coexistence between the various religious professions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal, which is merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ a mere technical procedure which does not introduce any substantive change in a text which does not have our support.
in writing. ‒ since there are no substantive changes, but only a codification of the existing rules for the application of agreements with the republic of albania, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i congratulate the consultative group of judges and the rapporteur, mr andrej duda, on the excellent work they have done in approving the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement and the interim agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of albania, of the other part, and on the fact that the proposal was adopted only as a codification and not as a substantial amendment to existing texts.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report by mr andrzej duda on the stabilisation and association agreement with albania, as it aims to codify the existing texts on the ec-albania agreement. the commission's proposal is not a technical one, but it is a mere codification of existing texts, and i support it.
in writing. ‒ a key agreement in the stabilisation and association process with the countries of the south-east, which is useful for establishing and consolidating a stable european order based on cooperation and which has one of the keys to the eu as well as in the framework of the stability pact. this agreement will create a new climate for their economic relations and, above all, for the development of trade and investment, which are essential factors in economic restructuring and modernization.
in writing. ‒ this proposal concerns the codification of council regulation (ec) no 1616/2006 of 23 october 2006 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of albania, of the other part, and the interim agreement between the european community, of the one part, and the republic of albania, of the other part. i have decided to vote in favour of the report by mr duda, since it merely codifies the existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this proposal for a regulation on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of albania, of the other part, as the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has concluded that the proposal in question is merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantial change to its content.
in writing. ‒ the codification of provisions which have been frequently amended over time is necessary if community legislation is to be fully in line with the principles of clarity and transparency. in this connection, the purpose of this proposal is to initiate the codification of the stabilisation and association agreement between the ec and albania. in view of the foregoing considerations, and as this is a technical report which does not introduce any innovation in its content, i have decided to welcome it.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for the work he has done and hope that i have made a contribution.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of albania, of the other part, is also a mere codification of the existing texts, without any substantial amendments, and therefore, and with reference to the opinion of 17/9/2014 of the consultative working party of the legal services of the ep, the ec, and the council, my vote is in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ albania is called upon to make the necessary reforms to enable it to integrate into europe. reforms must focus on strengthening the rule of law, local authorities and the judiciary. i voted in favour of the stabilisation and association agreement with albania and i believe, as parliament has clearly stated, that integration with this country must be achieved through constant cooperation with european and balkan agencies in the fight against drug trafficking, through the promotion and defence of human rights and through peaceful coexistence of the different cultural and religious realities inhabiting this region.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ i do not share the positions taken in the text under vote, so i did not intend to support it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the codification of regulation 594/2008 on the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and bosnia and herzegovina and on the eu/bosnia and herzegovina interim agreement on trade related matters will help clarify the legislation pertaining to eu/bosnia and herzegovina relations.
in writing. - i vote against it. i would like to point out that this is a simple vote of codification, and therefore a technical vote, but i confirm my opposition to the original measure.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part, and the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters between the european community and bosnia and herzegovina. in the present case, i consider that: - a stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of albania, of the other part ('saa'), was signed in luxembourg and entered into force on 1 april 2009; - the saa provides that fishery products originating in albania may be imported into the union at a reduced rate of customs duty within the limits of tariff quotas. provisions should therefore be laid down for the management of those quotas; - it is necessary to lay down the procedures for applying certain provisions of the saa; - council regulation (ec) no 1616/2006 has been substantially amended. for the sake of clarity, it should be codified. i also believe that, according to the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal is merely a codification of existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the codification of the agreement, which has no problems and no controversial aspects.
in writing. ‒ the measure codifies the existing texts, without substantial amendments, concerning the stabilisation and association agreement and the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters with bosnia and herzegovina and is therefore technical in nature. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the application of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part, and the application of the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters between the european community, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part, as the latter had been suspended, but i believe that we now have the necessary conditions for its entry into force. this agreement will allow bosnia and herzegovina to progress in its relations with the eu. the implementation of this agreement is also symbolic in that it provides a strong impetus for the continuation of socioeconomic and judicial reforms which will enable bosnia and herzegovina to prepare for future eu accession.
in writing. ‒ as is well known, pending the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement, the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters guarantees asymmetrical liberalisation of trade with bosnia and herzegovina. this will ensure that bosnia and herzegovina has exceptional trade measures and that the european union has sufficient time to align the preferences granted with those provided for in the stabilisation and association agreements. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the proposal, since it merely codifies existing texts without making any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal, which is merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ a mere technical procedure which does not introduce any substantive change in a text which does not have our support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, in the absence of substantial amendments, a codification of existing legislation can only lead to positive simplification effects, fulfilling the provisions of the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because it is intended to codify existing texts. the rapporteur, mr duda, has again proposed a technical approach which is limited to a codification of existing texts. there are no substantial changes to the agreement with bosnia-herzegovina, and i therefore support it.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) assesses the performance, financial management and control issues of the eu agency. i have expressed my favourable opinion, in line with my political group, as i regarded the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators as positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ this proposal concerns a set of procedures relating to the application of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part, and the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters between the european community, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part. as the duda report aims at the official codification of existing legislative texts, i have decided to support it with a positive vote.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this proposal for a regulation on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part, and the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters between the european community, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part, as the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has concluded during its examination that the proposal in question is merely a codification of existing texts without any substantial changes to its content.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this report is to start the codification of the existing texts concerning the application of the stabilisation and association agreement and the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters between the ec and bosnia and herzegovina. since the rapporteur's proposal is merely a codification of existing texts without any substantial changes to them, i thought it appropriate to support it by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for the work he has done and hope that i have made a contribution.
in writing. ‒ following the opinion of the legal services consultative group of 17/9/2014, i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part, and the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters between the european community, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part, as it is a simple codification of existing texts, without any substantive changes.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ by not agreeing with the duda report, i did not mean to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i decided to support this report because i think that the codification of regulation (ec) 153/2002 pertaining to the bilateral relations between the eu and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is long overdue, since it has been amended more than ten times and, hence, it should be codified, in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement of 1994.
in writing. - i vote against it. it is a technical vote for codification, but i confirm my opposition to the original measure.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part. in the present case, i consider that: - a stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part (asa), entered into force on 1 april 2004; - the procedures for applying certain provisions of the saa should be laid down; - under the saa, certain products originating in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia benefit from a reduced rate of customs duty on importation into the union, within the limits of tariff quotas. the necessary provisions for the calculation of the reduced rates of customs duties should therefore be laid down; - council regulation (ec) no 153/2002 has been substantially amended several times. for the sake of clarity and rationality, it should be codified. i also believe that, according to the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal is merely a codification of existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text as it is not particularly critical.
in writing. ‒ the openness and cooperation of the countries that are now members of the union, and of the union as such, with the countries that are geographically closest to them has always been and remains of the utmost importance. the stabilisation and association agreement signed in 2001 between the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, on the one hand, and the european communities and their member states, on the other, was the first to be ratified by all member states, and entered into force on 1 april 2004, paving the way for europe's opening up to the balkans: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. it is important to ensure the accessibility and comprehensibility of the rules on cooperation between the union and its member states, on the one hand, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, on the other. to this end, the relevant european legislation needed to be simplified and made clearer: that is the aim of the regulation we voted for. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the measure codifies the existing texts, without substantial changes, concerning the stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom) and is therefore technical in nature. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulation of certain procedures for the application of the stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, as i am convinced of the need to simplify the procedure. although the proposal in question is limited to a codification of existing texts, it has symbolic value because it reinforces the nature of the act which constitutes the first step towards the accession of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ the association and stabilisation process is the main instrument through which the union is committed to integrating the western balkans as far as possible into the political and economic context of europe. in this context, the ratification of the saa by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia was a significant milestone, as it was the first country in the region to successfully conclude the negotiations and sign such an agreement with the eu. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal to amend certain procedures of the stabilisation and association agreement, as it will not affect the integrity of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal, which is merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ a mere technical procedure which does not introduce any substantive change in a text which does not have our support.
in writing. following the report on bosnia, mr duda gives us a report on macedonia which, with the support of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, codifies existing texts without any substantial changes. i think that once again we are paying attention to this important but little-known task of codification, which is one of the main instruments for advancing community legislation.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my vote in favour of mr andrzej duda's report on the stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia expresses my support for the proposal in question, which aims to codify the existing texts without making any substantial changes to the agreement already concluded.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. given the current state of eu-macedonia relations, such an agreement tends to favour trade with countries which are part of the european community and therefore align themselves with certain directives, including relations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. such agreements can indeed promote a balanced situation by encouraging partnership between the different areas. the conclusion of a partnership agreement also improves market conditions between countries by supporting trade, sectors which can benefit from economies of scale by enhancing products that exploit international trade.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 153/2002 of 21 january 2002 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, and the interim agreement between the european community and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i have decided to support the report by mr duda, since it does not make any substantial changes to the existing text.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this proposal for a regulation on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, as the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has concluded that the proposal in question is merely a codification of existing texts without any substantial change to its content.
in writing. the european union attaches great importance to simplifying and clarifying community legislation so that it is more understandable and accessible to citizens. this objective cannot be achieved as long as the innumerable provisions, which have been amended several times and often substantially, remain scattered, forcing those wishing to consult them to look for them both in the original act and in the amending acts. the purpose of this proposal is therefore to start the codification of the stabilisation and association agreement between the ec and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia without making substantial changes. in view of the foregoing considerations, i have decided to support the report.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for his work and hope that i have made a contribution
in writing. ‒ here again i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, because, according to the opinion of the legal services consultative group of 17/9/2014, it is a mere codification of the existing texts, without any substantive changes.
in writing. it is a purely technical procedure which does not introduce any substantive change. just a few formal changes. i have decided to vote against, confirming my position on the original measure.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ i do not share the views expressed in the report analysing the application of certain categories of horizontal state aid; i believe that there is too much rigid regulation in europe on the application of so-called 'state aid' when, on the contrary, many third countries are in fierce competition with our companies and enjoy much more favourable rules on the aid they can receive from the public sector. i believe that the eu should be more active in supporting its own companies, especially in order to cope with the ruthless competition from asia, and for these reasons i voted against this measure.
in writing. ‒ i voted yes to this report since the codification of this regulation will clarify the legislation pertaining to state aids and, in turn, will make it easier for both the public and private sectors to comply with such rules.
in writing. - i vote against it. it is a technical vote for codification, but i confirm my opposition to the original measure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of codification of the application of the treaty to horizontal state aid, which is granted under specific conditions.
in writing. ‒ the measure codifies the existing texts, without substantial changes, concerning the application of articles 107 and 108 tfeu to certain categories of horizontal state aid and is therefore technical in nature. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i attach great importance to simplifying and clarifying the wording of eu legislation so that it is more understandable and accessible to citizens. i voted in favour of the proposal precisely because the new regulation replaces the various regulations it incorporates, while preserving the substance of the acts being codified and therefore merely bringing them together by making only the formal changes necessary for the legislative work.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is essential to simplify eu legislation so that it is more understandable and accessible to citizens, offering them new opportunities to enforce the rights enshrined in the legislation. in this context, i welcomed the proposal to codify council regulation (ec) no 994/98 of 7 may 1998 on the application of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to certain categories of horizontal state aid. i therefore decided to vote in favour, without altering the substance of the text.
in writing. the proposal for a council regulation aims to codify council regulation (ec) no 994/98 of 7 may 1998 on the application of articles 107 and 108 of the tfeu to certain categories of horizontal state aid. since the proposal was limited to a mere codification of existing texts without any substantial changes, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal, which is merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ a mere technical procedure which does not introduce any substantive change in a text which does not have our support. we have always objected to the extreme rigidity of the rules on so-called 'state aid', whereas many third countries are in fierce competition with our companies and enjoy much more favourable rules on the aid they can receive from the public sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it is a simple codification of certain provisions on horizontal state aid and does not contain any substantive changes.
in writing. i thank mr duda for his valuable work on codification, and once again we are making the long-awaited addition to the legislation in the case of the application of articles 107 and 108. i therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have expressed my support for this report, which provides for the application of articles 107 and 108 tfeu to certain categories of horizontal state aid. the proposal is intended to codify existing texts. i would stress the possibility for the commission, by means of regulations, to declare that certain categories of aid are not subject to the notification requirement.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on the proposal for a council regulation on the application of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to certain categories of horizontal state aid. horizontal aid is intended to achieve objectives common to several production sectors, such as environmental aid, aid for research and technological development, aid for smes. with regard to this type of aid, the commission stated that member states may need to intervene in economic life without prior restraint by precise sectoral or regional boundaries. however, this report is limited to a mere codification of existing forecasts.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to codify officially the texts of council regulation (ec) no 994/98 of 7 may 1998 on the application of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. since the duda report merely codifies existing texts without making any substantial changes to them, i have decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this proposal for a council regulation on the application of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to certain categories of horizontal state aid, given that, in the course of its examination, the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has concluded that the proposal in question is limited to a mere codification of existing texts, without making any substantial changes to its content.
in writing. ‒ the present proposal is to start the codification of council regulation (ec) no 994/98 of 7 may 1998 on the application of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to certain categories of horizontal state aid. the new regulation replaces the various regulations it incorporates, preserves in full the substance of the acts which it codifies and therefore merely brings them together by making only the formal amendments necessary for the purpose of codification. in view of the foregoing considerations, i have decided to support the report.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for the work he has done and hope that i have made a contribution.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a council regulation on the application of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to certain categories of horizontal state aid concerns a simple codification of existing texts, with reference also to the opinion of the legal services consultative group of 17/9/2014, and hence my vote in favour.
in writing. i decided to vote against because i object to the extreme rigidity of the rules on so-called 'state aid', when, on the contrary, many third countries are in fierce competition with our companies and enjoy much more favourable rules on the aid they can receive from the public sector.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ i believe that the european state aid rules are too stringent and run counter to the interests of our companies, which do not have the support they need to face the fierce competition from many third countries, which is why i did not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i vote against it. it is a technical vote for codification, but i confirm my opposition to the original measure.
in writing. ‒ as with some other votes, it is a matter of coding; in this case, it is a codification of the rules for the application of an article of the treaty (article 108 tfeu), which does not raise any problems.
in writing. ‒ the measure codifies the existing texts, without substantial changes, concerning the detailed rules for the application of article 108 tfeu and is therefore of a technical nature. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation is a mere codification of existing texts, without any substantial changes, and i decided to support it because i attach great importance to simplifying and clarifying the wording of eu legislation, so that it becomes more understandable and accessible to citizens. i would like to stress the importance of the general principle of article 108 tfeu to which the resolution refers, namely the incompatibility of state aid with the internal market.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the observations of the consultative working party of the european parliament's legal services and in line with what has already been said regarding the vote on the application of articles 107 and 108 tfeu, i intend to express my vote in favour of this proposal for a council resolution.
in writing. the proposal for a council regulation codifying council regulation (ec) no 659/1999 of 22 march 1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of article 108 of the tfeu is limited to a mere codification of the existing texts, without any substantial amendments. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal, which is merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ a mere technical procedure which does not introduce any substantive change in a text which does not have our support. we have always objected to the extreme rigidity of the rules on so-called 'state aid', whereas many third countries are in fierce competition with our companies and enjoy much more favourable rules on the aid they can receive from the public sector.
in writing. ‒ in line with my previous vote on the application of articles 107 and 108 tfeu to certain categories of horizontal state aid, i voted in favour of this report as it is complementary and necessary to the previous one.
in writing. i note the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, which met on 25 september 2014 to examine the proposal presented by the commission, and i express my vote in favour, supported by this important legal basis.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr duda's report on the mobility of article 108 tfeu. it is intended to codify the existing texts without making any substantial changes to the agreement already concluded.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on the proposal for a council regulation laying down detailed rules for the application of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which is basically a mere codification of what already exists. the commission, as in the first instance, is continuously examining with the member states the aid schemes existing in those states. it shall propose to them the appropriate measures required by the progressive development or functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ this document proposes a formal codification of council regulation (ec) no 659/1999 of 22 march 1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the duda report merely codifies existing texts without making any substantial changes to them, and i therefore decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this proposal for a council regulation laying down detailed rules for the application of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, given that, in the course of its examination, the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has concluded that the proposal in question is limited to a mere codification of existing texts, without making any substantial changes to its content.
in writing. the european union attaches great importance to simplifying and clarifying community legislation so that it is more understandable and accessible to citizens. this objective cannot be achieved as long as the numerous provisions, amended several times, remain scattered, forcing those wishing to consult them to look for them both in the original act and in the amending acts. the aim of the proposal is therefore to codify council regulation (ec) no 659/1999 of 22 march 1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in view of the foregoing considerations, and as this is a technical report which does not introduce any innovation in its content, i have decided to welcome it.
in writing. ‒ following the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission of 23/10/2014, i voted in favour of the proposal for a council regulation laying down detailed rules for the application of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, since it is limited to a single codification of existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. i decided to vote against because i object to the extreme rigidity of the rules on so-called 'state aid', when, on the contrary, many third countries are in fierce competition with our companies and enjoy much more favourable rules on the aid they can receive from the public sector.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ some of the issues raised by the court of auditors' special reports are undoubtedly important, but the attitude is not sufficiently rigorous towards the european institutions' spending arrangements and i believe that the text under this vote is merely a list with few political references to the court of auditors' activity through the study of its special reports, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this resolution because i think that the court of auditors special reports in the context of the 2013 commission discharge made it much easier for the parliament to carry out the discharge procedure.
in writing. - i voted no. some of the issues raised in the court of auditors' special reports are undoubtedly important, but the attitude is not sufficiently strict towards the european institutions' spending methods.
in writing. ‒ the reports presented by the court of auditors present a good critical analysis, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ considering that, pursuant to article 17 (1) teu, the commission implements the budget and manages programmes and that, pursuant to article 317 tfeu, it implements the budget in cooperation with the member states, under its own responsibility, in accordance with the principle of sound financial management and that the special reports of the court of auditors provide information on matters of interest for the implementation of the funds and are therefore useful to parliament in the exercise of its role as discharge authority, i voted in favour of granting the commission discharge for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors, in addition to examining all the revenue and expenditure of the union and its bodies, may at any time publish special reports on specific issues. i therefore voted in favour of this discharge because the special reports of the court of auditors in the context of the discharge to the commission have shown that the european union has worked well on all the issues discussed and achieved the results that were set out.
in writing. ‒ i have hereby voted in favour of the court of auditors' special report on the discharge to be given to the commission in respect of the financial year 2013. i believe that the criticisms contained in the text are well founded and that the corrective measures suggested are effective in improving the management of the community budget. in particular, the report highlights the lack of reliability of the data reported by the states and therefore of the work based on them; the commission is also critical of certain foreign policy decisions and of the lack of commitment to sound financial management. the commission is also urged to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the situation in the member states. the text also calls on the member states and the commission to be more transparent and accurate in the collection of data and the processing of information and calls for a report to be submitted next year on the good or bad functioning of the juncker plan.
in writing. ‒ i abstain because some of the issues raised by the court of auditors' special reports are undoubtedly important, but the attitude is not sufficiently severe towards the european institutions' spending methods.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mrs ingeborg gräßle, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the report on the court of auditors' special reports in the context of the discharge to the commission for the financial year 2013. i therefore agree with the honourable member on the importance of the independent and authoritative work carried out by the court of auditors, and i particularly agree with the call on the commission to carry out a structured and formalised analysis which also takes account of the risks associated with the compilation of national accounts by the member states and the relative size of the components of gross national income in the total economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr gräßle's proposal on the discharge to be given to the commission for the financial year 2013. this procedure is the final approval of the budget for the financial year. the court of auditors and the commission are invited to develop an audit tool that records errors and irregularities on an annual basis. i thank her for the excellent work she has done as chairman of the cont committee.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report on the court of auditors' special reports in the context of the commission's discharge for the financial year 2013. it is certainly good that the commission has managed the union's budgetary and european development fund expenditure well. however, there are still a number of areas for improvement, such as the concept of additionality which parliament defended in the negotiations on the development cooperation instrument but which has not yet been confirmed. it is very positive that 40 countries have committed themselves to improving joint programming at union level, this shows a will for synergy and confirms a positive trend. unfortunately, corruption is still a major obstacle to the development of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report in question, which specifically concerns the discharge to be given to the commission for the financial year 2013. the report highlights the lack of reliability of the first-level checks carried out by the member states in the context of the concurrent management of the data they communicate. as a result, the credibility of the annual activity reports of the directors-general and the synthesis report adopted by the college could be compromised. following the reservations expressed by the directors-general of dg agri, regio and empl in their respective annual activity reports, parliament cannot politically guarantee that the control procedures put in place by the commission and the member states provide the necessary guarantees as regards the legality and regularity of all underlying transactions. the report calls for greater transparency by the member states, in cooperation with the commission, and states that continued disinformation by member states must be followed by sanctions. the discharge report also asks the commission to provide a list of entities which have obtained contracts from the commission without a tendering procedure.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for the work he has done and hope that i have made a contribution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission's discharge for the financial year 2013, even though the error rate in financial management is still too high. this is a serious waste which could be remedied by greater transparency on the part of the member states cooperating with the commission.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ i have always been extremely critical of the european development fund, i believe that over the years it has never really helped to create development in the areas where its funds are used. more needs to be done to check the effectiveness of control mechanisms and, probably, to assess priorities better. for these reasons i did not support the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed this resolution because i believe that we should be proud of the eu being the first development aid donor in the world and, hence, i believe that it is important that the european development funds, which represent the main channel through which european development aids are delivered, is properly funded.
in writing. ‒ the measure requires the granting of discharge, therefore my vote is in favour of the motion. the edf has never really helped to create development, more needs to be done to check the effectiveness of control mechanisms and to better assess priorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge decision because the court of auditors' audits indicate problems with the transparency of the fund's management and important room for improvement in reducing waste.
in writing. ‒ considering that the european development funds (edfs), financed by the member states, are the main financial instrument of the union for development cooperation with the acp states and that the commission is responsible for the discharge for the edfs, i voted in favour of granting the discharge for those funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this discharge because the european development funds (edf), which are financed by the member states, are the main financial instrument of the union for development cooperation with states. i also believe that the budgetization of the edf is a priority for parliament because the inclusion of the edf in the general budget would bring greater financial security for the beneficiary countries, but also greater political coherence and greater democratic control.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report proposing to grant the commission discharge for the year 2013 and concerning the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds (edfs), the main instrument through which the union assists the countries of the caribbean and pacific area and the overseas territories and states. the court of auditors itself has given a positive assessment of the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the commission has also identified a number of operational weaknesses, such as the regularity of payments under the accounts, the slightly higher error rate compared to the previous year and above the value agreed with the commission, the prevalent types of errors similar to those of previous years despite the corrective action plan introduced in may 2013, which demonstrate that the control and surveillance system put in place by europeaid's central bodies and union delegated bodies only partially guarantees the legality and transparency of payment flows. i therefore share the concerns expressed in the european parliament's motion for a resolution and the suggestions of the committee on development, which are an integral part of this discharge decision.
in writing. ‒ vote against the discharge as according to the court of auditors' estimates, the most likely error rate for the expenditure operations of the 8th, 9th and 10th edf is 3,4%, a slight increase compared to 2012 (3%) but still below the peak reached in 2011 (5,1%): the court of auditors' annual report on the activities of the edf for the financial year 2013 indicates that the error rate has increased compared to the previous financial year and that it is still too high.
in writing. - while i am in favour of the report, i am against the discharge. the complex rules governing the award of contracts and the award of contracts create difficulties for the control systems, making it difficult to implement them correctly and, consequently, lacking the necessary transparency. in addition, the court of auditors' assessment shows that there is a widespread lack of information on the results achieved and that the ex ante control and verification systems for expenditure are ineffectively organised.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by ms martina dlabajová, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013. i would also like to stress and remind, as my colleague has pointed out, that the objective set by the cotonou agreement is to eradicate poverty, in line with the sustainable development objectives, and that therefore good management of the european development fund (edf) is essential to ensure that development cooperation policies are commensurate with the overall role the eu aspires to play.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have decided to support mrs dlabayeva's report. parliament shows that it exercises democratic control by approving the discharge procedure. specifically, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge for the general budget of the european union - the eighth, ninth and tenth edfs. it welcomes the improvements achieved in the number and value of recoveries, which increased compared to 2012 with 24 recoveries for a total amount of eur 4,7 million in 2013.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013. the main objective is to reduce and ultimately eliminate poverty, in line with the objectives of sustainable development and the progressive integration of the acp and octs into the world economy. it is right to believe that considerations of trade policy, foreign policy and security policy should not be disregarded in relation to the union's development priorities. innovative financial instruments are also needed to achieve a wider reach. finally, the priority remains to have transparency and a comprehensive fight against corruption.
in writing. ‒ the european development fund is the main instrument of community aid for development cooperation in the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states and the overseas countries and territories (octs). the edf is not financed from the community budget. it is financed by the member states, has its own financial rules and is managed by a specific committee. the european commission is responsible for the financial implementation of operations carried out with edf resources and the european investment bank (eib) manages the investment facility. i voted in favour of this report, which proposes to grant discharge to the commission in respect of the implementation of the budget for the 8th, 9th and 10th edfs for 2013, and welcomes the opinion of the court of auditors that the final annual accounts present fairly, in all relevant respects, the financial position of the edfs.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for the work he has done and hope that i have made a contribution.
in writing. ‒ the european development funds (edf) are the main financial instrument of the union for development cooperation with acp states. all edf activities must follow strategic and priority areas based on the choices made and on criteria of economic and financial efficiency, taking into account the inherent risk in developing countries due to the unstable geopolitical environment. the commission must therefore monitor the performance and sustainability of the results and push for the development of an independent national audit body before granting budget support. i hope that the edf will soon be included in the general budget, with greater involvement of parliament in the strategic priorities for the allocation of funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to the european development fund because of the important role played by this body, which is the main instrument used by the eu to provide aid for cooperation and development in the african, caribbean and pacific countries and overseas territories.
in writing. i voted against the decision proposing to grant discharge to the european development fund because according to the court of auditors' estimates, the most likely error rate for the expenditure operations of the eighth, ninth and tenth edfs is 3.4%: the error rate increased compared to the previous year and is still too high. the implementation of the edfs is characterised by complex rules and procedures, such as the procurement and award of contracts with a wide geographical coverage, which present a high degree of inherent risk, making it difficult to optimise control systems, and there is a need to improve the transparency of edf funding: the court of auditors' assessment that the ex ante checks carried out before the execution of the project payments still showed significant weaknesses. the direct budget support instrument makes it impossible to verify where the money is going to be spent, and many countries are plagued by high levels of corruption. finally, there are still shortcomings in the management information system on the results and follow-up of external expenditure audits and verifications.
oral explanations of vote
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ in a period of economic crisis, parliament's budget increased by 1.9% in 2013 compared to 2012. among the many items that have led to this rise are: the increase in meps' salaries and increases for european parties and foundations. we do not believe that these increases are in line with the sacrifices required of the member states and therefore of the citizens of europe. that is why we voted against the discharge but in favour of the report in the annex which mentions the problems of the budget increase.
in writing. ‒ the report provides critical insights which led me to vote against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted yes to this resolution since i believe that the european parliament, being the institution which represents the european citizens, plays a pivotal role in the european union system and should be funded accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the measure requires the granting of discharge, therefore my vote is in favour of the motion. the bureaucratic machine of the european parliament is a cesspool of unjustified and unnecessary expenditure.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge decision because parliament continues to give excessive funding to political parties and, in general, the budget has been increased, when, in the time of crisis in which the eu is going through, the institutions should be the first to set a good example.
in writing. ‒ whereas scrutiny is necessary to ensure that parliament's administration and political leaders are held accountable to the citizens of the union; that there is always room for improvement in terms of quality, efficiency and effectiveness in the management of public finances; i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the general budget of the european parliament because it represents a necessary check to ensure that parliament's administration and policy-makers are accountable to the citizens of the union. as regards the budget, i would like to point out that no serious deficiencies were identified in relation to the issues examined for the european parliament and that the supervisory and control systems, in relation to administrative expenditure in 2013, have been effective.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the european parliament's budget for the financial year 2013, following the report on the same submitted by the court of auditors which certified the regularity of the expenditure incurred and recorded by parliament. i also find the comments and requests in the text of the discharge approved, concerning the revision of some of the expenditure currently in the budget, to be appropriate. the request for more detailed information on certain aspects, as well as the publication of this information online, will help to avoid waste of public money, further ensure fairness and improve the transparency of expenditure.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the discharge as the report highlights some key issues in the financial management of the european parliament: - lack of transparency in information both at general level and in the documentation submitted by members - problems in the management of the grant scheme for visitor groups - costs of delegations, joint parliamentary assemblies, ad hoc delegations and election observation missions outside the union - costs and performance of europarl tv and the lux prize - problems in the remuneration of apas - importance of establishing appropriate measures to ensure the sustainability of parliament's buildings in the face of the increase in maintenance costs - security problems of parliament - demands for an environmentally friendly parliament
in writing. - while i am in favour of the report, i am against the discharge. the report essentially highlights the lack of transparency in the financial management of the european parliament. the justification for expenditure is unclear and the documentation required of members is often lacking, making it easier to commit fraud. the deficiencies are mainly found in the system of subsidies for visitor groups, in the costs of delegations, joint parliamentary assemblies, ad hoc delegations and election observation missions outside the union. moreover, as if the contributions they receive in their home countries were not enough, once they arrive in europe, european parties and foundations ask for and receive an envelope. in 2016, the european parliament will allocate eur 31,4 million for the first and eur 18,7 million for the second. parliament spends some €80 million every year to reimburse members for their travel expenses. this is a huge sum, which is used to finance the absurd commute that members and officials have to make once a month to reach the useless double office in strasbourg.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr gilles pargneaux, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section i european parliament. the example of us members of parliament, and of the institution as a whole, is essential to bring europe closer to its citizens. i would therefore like to stress my support for a number of important amendments which called for greater transparency, control and moderation in the framing of the future budget of the european parliament.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since the court of auditors has stated that it has not found any particular inconsistencies in the general budget of the european union concerning the activities of the european parliament, i have given my consent to the adoption of the budget in question. the court of auditors, following its audit, found that the european parliament had a sound financial management and that the supervision and control systems were functioning properly.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section on the european parliament: the commission has not received any comments from the european parliament on the discharge, and the fact that the accounts give a true and fair view of the financial situation of the european parliament in all material respects does not create any reservations. the court of auditors itself, thanks to its audit, confirmed the absence of serious deficiencies, which is another positive and encouraging sign. there is always room for improvement, but in any case the trend is positive and satisfactory, and that is why i am in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the pargneaux report shows that the european parliament met its financial obligations in an efficient and compliant manner for the financial year 2013. i therefore decided to support this document.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report proposing to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of parliament's budget for the financial year 2013. the report, in addition to stressing the importance of sound, fair and transparent financial management, also highlighted some important points, including: the revision of general expenditure allowances; the need for a roadmap to establish a single seat for parliament; and finally, the maintenance of the lux prize.
in writing. ‒ whereas, in its certification of the final accounts, parliament's accounting officer stated with reasonable assurance that the accounts give a true and fair view of the financial situation of the european parliament in all material respects and that no element of concern has been brought to his attention, whereas control is also necessary to ensure that parliament's administration and policy-makers are accountable to the citizens of the union; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ an examination by the court of auditors has provided a true and fair view of the financial situation of the european parliament, which has not revealed any serious shortcomings in relation to the issues examined for this institution. the european parliament is the institution that most represents european citizens in the european legislative process and ensures the democratic functioning of the other eu institutions. for all these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour of the 2013 discharge to the european parliament.
in writing. i voted against the decision proposing to grant discharge to the european parliament to demonstrate my opposition first of all to the fact that the budget of the parliament increased by 1.9% in 2013 compared to 2012 with the final appropriations of the parliament reaching a total amount of € 1 750 463 939. the necessary transparency on expenditure is also still lacking: it remains impossible to have an overview of the secretarial expenses of individual members, and the secretary-general did not respond to a number of questions put by members during the discharge procedure. parliament also continues to fund political parties and foundations, with more than €2 million in 2013.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i am voting in favour of the 2013 budget report, so that the path taken to cut parliament's and the institutions' expenditure is also the right one to send important signals in a context of great difficulties within the union. we know that the efforts made are not enough, but we can only hope for a start. the rationalization of expenditure is a central point of our policy.
oral explanations of vote
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution to postpone the decision on discharge to the european council and the council. i agree with the rapporteur's request that we have separate budgets between these two institutions so that we can have effective control of the expenditure incurred by them, which is often unclear.
in writing. ‒ the measure proposes to postpone the decision on discharge, i supported this proposal.
in writing. ‒ in view of the lack of proper transparency on the expenditure carried out by the council, i voted in favour of the decision requesting the postponement of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ considering that all union institutions should be transparent and fully accountable to the citizens of the union regarding the funds entrusted to them as union institutions and that in the absence of answers to parliament's questions and in the absence of sufficient information, parliament is not in a position to take an informed decision on granting the discharge, i voted in favour of postponing the discharge for the european council and the council.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge because it is a check necessary to ensure that the administration and political leaders of the european council and the council are accountable to the citizens of the union. i would like to stress that effective budgetary control can only be achieved through cooperation between parliament and the council, which must include formal meetings between the council representatives and the committee on budgetary control.
in writing. ‒ i endorse this resolution on the postponement of the decision on granting discharge to the european council and council because, due to the many difficulties encountered during the discharge procedure by the european parliament, it is impossible to determine how the appropriations to these two institutions were spent and therefore, for the time being, it is impossible to grant discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the discharge to the european council and the council for the financial year 2013, which argues that the adoption of the budget should be postponed as the conditions for verifying the correctness of the expenditure entered are not met. in particular, it is considered that the council does not operate in a manner of adequate transparency and fairness towards citizens, thus undermining their right to be informed about the use of public money. it should be added that, although there are no significant errors in the recording of payments, as the court of auditors found, there are many unclear points raised by the competent officials and for which it is hoped that explanations will be forthcoming. i also agree with the report's call for the council and european council budgets to be separated in order to promote transparency in financial management and for parliament to be given the annual activity report of the institutions. finally, it is considered that the reluctance of the two institutions to give full and timely answers to parliament's requests for information does not enable parliament to adopt the discharge decision in full knowledge of the facts and that, therefore, the postponement of approval is a necessary step.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the council's discharge because the council does not provide the european parliament with internal audit documents and does not attend the meetings scheduled for the discharge procedure. this leads to a situation where the complete documentation is missing in order to grant discharge.
in writing. ‒ for the seventh year in a row, the european parliament proposes, as a first step, to postpone the discharge to the council's budget. there are still problems with the council not providing the european parliament with internal audit documents and not participating in the meetings scheduled for the discharge procedure. the council refuses to take part in the meetings of the committee on budgetary control relating to its discharge: the report calls on the council to exercise transparency and accountability towards citizens, including by examining the issue of discharge for the eu budget in an open meeting. the commission has also noted the huge disparity in translation costs between the various european institutions and it is therefore requested that the interinstitutional working group on translation identify the causes of these disparities and propose solutions to end this imbalance and to achieve the harmonisation of translation costs in full respect of quality and linguistic diversity. in essence, therefore, the complete documentation is lacking in order to grant discharge. i am therefore against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the resolution supporting the request for referral of the discharge to the council. we should have separate budgets for the european council and the council. the differences in translation costs between the different institutions are also highlighted. in general, the text contains an implicit request for greater cooperation from the council in order to reach a possible discharge.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section ii european council and council. these two important institutions of the union, which directly represent the member states, have also been subject to democratic control and scrutiny by the european parliament, with the aim of making them transparent and fully accountable to the citizens.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report for the implementation of the european council's budget assesses the issues relating to the performance, financial management and control of the general budget of the eu. i expressed my opinion in favour of postponing the discharge for the financial year 2013, in line with my political group, as, as in previous years, the cont committee recommended postponing the discharge for the council. the council has not yet responded to the questions put by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report calling for the postponement of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and the council for the financial year 2013. all community institutions should be transparent and fully accountable to citizens for the funds entrusted to them. i think that the council has not been sufficiently transparent and cooperative with parliament in providing the information it needed and the same applies to the european council.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur for the work he has done and i hope i have made a contribution.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone the discharge to the european council and the council for the 2013 budget, in line with the vote of the committee on budgetary control which, as in previous years, requested the postponement of the discharge to these institutions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the decision requesting the postponement of the council's discharge: i would remind you that this is the seventh consecutive year that the european parliament has decided to do so. the administrative autonomy enjoyed by the institutions to a certain extent implies an equivalent degree of responsibility and accountability to parliament, which is the only directly elected body and one of its tasks is to grant discharge. the expenditure of the council should be subject to the same verification as that of the expenditure of the other institutions of the union, namely verification based on written documents submitted to the european parliament. and although the legal issue is still 'unclear', my decision is mainly about the fact that not only does the council not recognise the role of parliament as the final rapporteur for discharge and therefore refuses to answer parliament's questionnaire on the reporting of expenditure, but above all the council is thus denying european citizens access to data showing that their money has been spent correctly and without waste.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ although the report on the european external action service is overall balanced, it refers to an institution that is always problematic with regard to its own expenditure. i did not therefore intend to grant discharge.
in writing. ‒ i chose to vote yes to this resolution because the european external action service for the third consecutive financial year has implemented its budget without major errors.
in writing. ‒ i voted against, the text calls for discharge and i am strongly against it. the costs of a diplomacy machine which is essentially useless and parallel to that of the member states are unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge because the resources of the european external action service could be used more profitably and there are still irregularities in payments.
in writing. ‒ taking into account that the european external action service ('eeas') again implemented its budget in its third financial year without the court of auditors detecting any material error, and noting the progress made in correcting the errors identified in previous financial years, i voted in favour of granting discharge to the eeas.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this discharge because for its third financial year the european external action service has again implemented its budget without the court of auditors finding any significant errors. i welcome the progress made in correcting the errors identified in previous years and support the recommendations for further improvements made by the court of auditors in its annual report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 and for the european external action service (eeas). the report produced by parliament acknowledges the eeas's achievement in implementing its budget without the court of auditors detecting any major errors. however, it also expressed concern about certain internal shortcomings and situations which should be better regulated and monitored more closely. the suggestions made by parliament to the eeas are all considered to be appropriate and appropriate in order to achieve a real improvement in its internal organisation and management. finally, the call for the court of auditors to include in its next annual report an examination of the follow-up given by the eeas to the recommendations made by parliament in the text of the resolution is welcomed as a potential incentive to implement the suggested actions.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the granting of discharge to the european external action service as i do not agree with the translation costs of the institution and with matters relating to high-level staff. that institution is not yet functional and that is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors has repeatedly made observations on the eeas in its annual reports over the last three years in relation to the payment of salaries to staff, shortcomings in the management of family allowances carried out on behalf of the eeas by the pmo (paymaster office), procurement of security services in delegations and contracts for it services, and already in previous years staff allowances were a matter of concern and were subject to errors. the pmo system was still not fully operational in 2013, which caused irregularities in the payment of social benefits to staff members. in addition, the eeas continues to have an unbalanced administration due to the presence of too many high-ranking officials. i am therefore against the discharge for the eeas.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the continuing failure of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section x european external action service. the choice to have a european diplomatic corps, increasingly autonomous from national services, is truly strategic and crucial for the future of europe as a leading global actor. it is essential to ensure that this service is run transparently and efficiently, and i welcome the work of verification carried out by my colleague.
in writing. in recent years, the role of the european external action service has been increasingly prominent in the international context. the great diplomatic commitment to mediation in the conflict between israel and palestine, support for the african populations affected by ebola, aid to refugees and syrian refugees are just some of the contexts in which it has intervened. it is not necessary to deny its inherent weakness, it is too often the victim of the foreign policy of the member states, which hardly surrender to europe such a distinctive part of their sovereignty. the challenges the service will face are still many, the conflicts are increasingly bloody, isis is killing in the arab countries and in europe, libya is in chaos. but the humanitarian emergency right now is not on a battlefield, it's at sea. it's in the mediterranean that hundreds, thousands of people die. then the seae must rethink its role, use its offices and resources to find ways to provide support already through its representations in north africa to prevent desperate poor people from going to their deaths in order to achieve freedom.
in writing. following the measures taken, i have decided to grant discharge to the european external action service, which supports the work of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. among the court's observations, on which we call on the eeas to amend its procedures, there is concern that staff allowances were already subject to errors in previous financial years. in general, no particular inconsistencies or irregularities were found.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european external action service assesses the performance, financial management and control issues of this eu institution. i have expressed my favourable opinion, in line with my political group, as i regarded the monitoring and evaluation studies on the costs of the european external action service as positive. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union.
in writing. ‒ as the court of auditors has pointed out, the european external action service presented a budget for its third financial year that was free from material error. it is important to note that for the financial year 2013, the eeas also corrected the errors detected in previous financial years. for these reasons, i considered it appropriate to support with a favourable vote the report signed by mr czarnecki which, on the basis of the findings of the court of auditors, approves the discharge to the eeas for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report in question, concerning, in particular, the discharge to be given to the european external action service in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the union for the financial year 2013. i welcomed the fact that for the third financial year the european external action service (eeas) fully implemented its budget without the court of auditors finding any significant errors. the report notes that, as regards the financial year 2013, the final budget of the eeas headquarters amounted to eur 508 800 000, an increase of 4,09%. in addition to the budget for the eeas, the commission contributed eur 272 400 000. 69% of the eeas budget was allocated to the payment of salaries and other emoluments of statutory and external staff and 10% to buildings and ancillary expenditure. for the budget of the union delegations abroad, 34% relates to the remuneration of statutory staff, 19.9% to external staff and 31.8% to buildings and ancillary expenditure.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for the work he has done and hope that i have made a contribution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to the european external action service, taking into account the eeas report which highlights some problems related to the effectiveness of the service, the reshuffling of the management, the regime of the union's special representatives and the development of tools in the field of human resources, administration as well as in the field of construction management and logistics.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ i do not share the positions taken in the czarnecki report on the court of justice, for which i voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution, because the court of justice implemented its budget without major weaknesses and with a very high implementation rate.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for discharge to be granted. i voted against it. i am against it. the court of auditors had a budget of eur 355 million in 2013 and closed 701 cases, two per day. an example of unjustifiable inertia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the court of justice, whose financial and administrative management is not in trouble.
in writing. ‒ considering that the court of auditors, in its 2013 annual report, found that no significant weaknesses or material errors were identified with regard to the court of justice (cj), i voted in favour of granting the discharge to the court of justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge because the court of auditors, on the basis of its audit work, concluded that the payments for the year ended 31 december 2013 for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies are, as a whole, free from material error. i believe that there is still room for improvement with the resources currently available to the court of justice; notes that the court of auditors' audit findings on the annual accounts of the union institutions and bodies are based on the annual accounts of the european parliament and the council for the financial year 2012, which are updated every year; i therefore urge the court of justice to continue to work in this direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2013 and for the court of justice of the european union. the approval of the discharge by parliament follows the court of auditors' annual report (2013) which found that the court of justice of the european union did not find any significant weaknesses in the audited aspects relating to human resources and procurement. the court of auditors also certified, on the basis of the audit work carried out, the reliability and absence of material errors in the payments for administrative and other expenditure for the financial year 2013. nevertheless, the parliament's report contains a number of recommendations which it is hoped will be taken into account, as it is felt that, with the resources currently available to the court of justice, there is still significant scope for improvement.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the vote on the granting of discharge to the court of justice because, although this institution is sustainable in terms of the basic services it provides to citizens, i do not agree with the costs of translating it.
in writing. - i vote against it. the court had a budget of eur 354,8 million in 2013 and was handling 701 cases (roughly two cases a day). in 2013, a proposal for a salary and pension adjustment of almost eur 6 million was included in the budget. cases pending in 2013 increased to 1325.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section iv court of justice. the court of justice's budget is purely administrative and a large part of it is used for expenditure related to staff working within the institution, the honourable member is right to point out that there is still room for improvement with the resources currently available to the court, and also that the internal reforms implemented in 2013 have contributed to positive changes in the system, which have resulted in better resource optimisation.
in writing. we are well aware of the fundamental role played by the court of justice of the european union in the institutional structure. its functioning and its duty to ensure that the law is observed also pass through the audit of the accounts. i have decided to vote in favour of discharge and to give a favourable opinion on the implementation of the budget. the court of auditors, on the basis of its audit work, has concluded that the payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2013 are, overall, free from material error.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the court of justice of the european union assesses the issues relating to the performance, financial management and control of this eu institution. i voted in favour, as did my group, because i regarded the court of justice of the european union's cost control and evaluation studies as positive. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union.
in writing. ‒ according to the court of auditors, the court of justice fulfilled its expenditure commitments for the year 2013, respecting the criteria of legality and transparency. i therefore considered it appropriate to support this document, which takes note of what the court of auditors has said.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report in question, which concerns, in particular, the discharge to be given to the court of justice in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the union for the financial year 2013. the report welcomes the fact that the payments for the year ended 31 december 2013 for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies are, as a whole, free from material error. it did not identify any significant weaknesses in the audited aspects of human resources and procurement for the court of justice. the court of justice also concluded 701 cases in 2013 (compared to 595 in 2012) and received 699 new cases (632 in 2012), of which 450 were appeals and references for a preliminary ruling.
in writing. ‒ considering that the court of justice closed 701 cases in 2013 (in 2012 the number of cases closed was 595), and that 699 new cases were brought before it (632 in 2012), including 450 actions and requests for a preliminary ruling, also considering the positive statistical results and considering that despite the successful outcome there is still room for improvement, and finally considering that there is still room for improvement with the resources currently available to the court of justice, i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 annual report of the court of auditors clearly shows that the court of justice of the european union has carried out its work effectively, as no significant weaknesses have been identified in the audited aspects concerning human resources and procurement, and payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies are free from material error. for all these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge to the court of justice of the european union for the year 2013.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ the report is not very effective, and there is still a lot of work to be done at the european court of auditors, which is why i did not intend to vote in favour of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution since i find that the implementation rate of 92% showed by the court of auditors is quite remarkable and, hence, they should be granted discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year of 2013.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge. the court of auditors is an overly bureaucratic and overly expensive machine.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors acts in a concrete and transparent manner and i was therefore able to vote in favour of the discharge decision.
in writing. ‒ considering that the annual accounts of the court of auditors are audited by an independent external auditor in order to apply to the court the same principles of transparency and accountability as those applied by the court to the entities it audits, and taking note of the opinion of the auditor that the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial situation, i voted in favour of granting discharge to the court.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge because the court of auditors' annual accounts aim to increase the quantity and quality of management control reports by improving efficiency and increasing the resources allocated to this purpose. such controls on the annual accounts shall be audited by an independent external auditor in order to apply to the court the same principles of transparency and accountability as those applied by the court to the entities it audits.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2013 in respect of the court of auditors, which is also subject to the same principles of transparency and accountability as it normally applies to the bodies it audits. in particular, the court's annual accounts, which have been audited by an independent external auditor, have been found to be able to give a true and fair view of its financial situation. the report also contains a number of suggestions for improvements which it is hoped will be taken up by the court of auditors in order to improve the service it provides.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the vote on the granting of discharge to the court of auditors because, although this institution is sustainable in terms of the basic services it provides to citizens, i do not agree with the translation costs of the same
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 discharge of the european court of auditors as it showed the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the budget.
in writing. ‒ i vote against because the resolution does not seem particularly strong. the court of auditors would have a key role to play in exposing certain flaws in the union, but it does not seem to be playing it fully.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section v court of auditors. given that the court of auditors' annual accounts are audited by a completely external and independent auditor, my colleague takes note - and i believe this deserves attention - of the court of auditors' new strategy for the period 2013-2017 to develop its role as the union's external auditor to the maximum.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of mr czarnecki's report. noting the court of auditors' new strategy for the period 2013-2017 to maximise its role as the external auditor of the union in the adoption of the general budget of the union, which is specifically concerned with the examination of all revenue and expenditure of the union and its various bodies and with ensuring sound financial management;
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report for the implementation of the court of auditors' budget assesses the issues related to the performance, financial management and control of this eu institution. i have expressed my favourable opinion, in line with my political group, because i regarded the court of auditors' cost control and evaluation investigations as positive. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union.
in writing. ‒ recalling that the annual accounts of the court of auditors are audited by an independent external auditor pricewaterhousecoopers sarl i take note of the opinion of the rapporteur that the financial statements present a true and fair view of the financial situation of the european court of auditors, and i support the report expressing the granting of the court of auditors' discharge. the report notes that in 2013 the court of auditors had final appropriations totalling eur 142 761 000 and that the overall budget implementation rate was 92%. it is regretted that this percentage has decreased since 2012, when it was 96%, while taking note of the explanation provided by the court of auditors for the decrease in the utilisation rate.
in writing. ‒ noting the court of auditors' new strategy for 2013-2017 to maximise its role as the external auditor of the union, noting that the court of auditors' annual accounts are audited by an independent external auditor pricewaterhousecoopers sarl in order to apply to the court the same principles of transparency and accountability as the court applies to its auditors, and noting the opinion of the auditor that the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial situation of the european court of auditors, i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors audits the eu's finances, its role is to improve the financial management of the union and to report on the use of public funds. in order to apply to the court the same principles of transparency and accountability as those applied by the court to the entities it supervises, the accounts of the court shall be audited by an independent auditor. this audit shows that the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial situation of the court of auditors. for this reason and because of the importance of the work carried out by this body, i voted in favour of the discharge to the european court of auditors.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ the report provides some excellent critical points which led me to vote against the discharge for the economic and social committee.
in writing. ‒ i chose to endorse this resolution because i believe that the economic and social committee has implemented its budget in accordance with the principles set out by eu legislation regarding budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ considering that the court of auditors, in its 2013 annual report, found that no significant weaknesses or material errors were identified with regard to the european economic and social committee (eesc), i voted in favour of granting the discharge to the committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european economic and social committee for its budget because the court of auditors, on the basis of the audit work carried out, has concluded that the payments for the administrative and other expenditure of the economic and social committee for the financial year ended 31 december 2013 are, as a whole, free from material error; the budget of the european economic and social committee is purely administrative in nature and a large part of it is used for expenditure relating to persons working within the institution, while the rest is used for expenditure relating to buildings, furniture and equipment and miscellaneous operating costs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget presented by the economic and social committee (esc). the committee's report also states that the court of auditors has, on the basis of its audit work, certified that payments for administrative and other expenditure by the institutions and bodies of the eesc are, on the whole, free from material error. the court also found no serious weaknesses in the human resources and procurement aspects audited. in the report presented, however, parliament expresses concern about certain issues within the organisation of the economic and social council and proposes a number of corrective measures which it hopes will be taken up and then put into practice in order to further improve the service provided by the council.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge for the economic and social committee because i do not agree with the translation costs of the institution and there are also criticisms about transparency issues.
in writing. ‒ my negative vote is not only dictated by the granting of discharge, but also by our very critical position towards this european institution. we have always been unable to see the importance or the need for the economic and social committee. the eesc's budget for 2013 was eur 130 million. money that we could certainly save and leave in the pockets of european citizens.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section vi european economic and social committee. the european parliament does not point to any factual errors in the court of auditors' report as regards administrative expenditure and, i agree with my colleague, there are also no significant weaknesses in the area of human resources and procurement.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the report by mr czarnecki on the discharge for the general budget 2013 for the economic and social committee, on the basis of the positive opinion of the court of auditors and the evaluation by the cont committee following the audit process carried out by the commission. the eesc's intention to provide for better planning of work in the legislative process is welcomed.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european economic and social committee assesses the issues relating to the performance, financial management and control of this eu institution. i voted in favour, as did my group, because i regarded the european economic and social committee's cost monitoring and evaluation studies as positive. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report in question, which concerns, in particular, the granting of discharge to the european economic and social committee for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013. the report highlights the absence of significant weaknesses in the audited aspects of human resources and procurement. noting that the 2013 budget was 1% higher than the previous year's budget, the report supports the eesc's efforts to limit budgets in the coming years, thus ensuring a flat-rate increase. the cooperation agreement between the european economic and social committee (eesc) and the committee of the regions (cor) and the european parliament, signed on 5 february 2014, started with a major transfer of staff from the committees to the new european parliamentary research service. i hope that the development of this agreement will benefit the three institutions and contribute to a further rationalisation of resources.
in writing. ‒ noting the 1% increase in the 2013 budget compared to the previous annual budget, the comments on the follow-up to parliament's 2012 discharge resolution annexed to the eesc's annual activity report and the cooperation between the eesc and parliament's committee on budgetary control, in particular in relation to the discharge procedure, i voted in favour for these reasons.
in writing. ‒ the european economic and social committee is an important tool for civil society organisations in the member states, as they use it to express their views at european level. in this way, the committee contributes to strengthening the democratic legitimacy and effectiveness of the european union. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the discharge to the european economic and social committee.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ even if you consider this report to be balanced, there are parts of the text which i do not agree with, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted yes because i believe the overall implementation rate of 97% showed by the committee of the regions for the financial year of 2013 is very remarkable and is one of the highest among the institutions of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ considering that the court of auditors, in its 2013 annual report, found that no significant weaknesses or material errors were identified with regard to the committee of the regions, i voted in favour of granting the discharge to the committee of the regions.
in writing. ‒ i congratulate the committee of the regions on the consistent quality of its annual activity report, which is an important tool for assessing its work. i particularly appreciated the point in the discharge where it is hoped that, in a time of crisis and budget cuts in general, the costs of 'days away' for staff of the union's institutions will be reduced and that such events should take place, as far as possible, at the institutions' premises, as their added value does not justify such high costs. for these reasons i voted in favour of the discharge for the budget of the committee of the regions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget presented by the committee of the regions. the document in question has been fully assessed positively by the court of auditors, which found that there were no significant critical issues with respect to human resources and procurement, and that the reporting of payments for administrative and other expenditure for the year ended 31 december 2013 was correct. in view of this authoritative assessment and the reasons for satisfaction in the european parliament's report for the committee's good management, i support the adoption of the committee's budget.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge for the committee of the regions because i do not agree with the translation costs of the institution. in addition, there are issues of transparency that are not convincing, as well as the fact that there is still a delay in the adoption of internal rules on whistleblowing and whistleblower protection.
in writing. - my vote on the resolution is no. as lega nord we have always believed that it is important to bring local realities into contact with brussels, but this does not mean maintaining an institution of eur 87.3 million without wanting to revise its management and spending policies.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section vii committee of the regions. the european parliament voted, as did the economic and social committee, to find no errors in the court of auditors' report and to verify that the court of auditors is well run, an institution which is becoming increasingly crucial in bringing citizens closer to europe in view of its size and territorial representation.
in writing. the committee of the regions represents an important added value for the european decision-making process. respect for and implementation of the principle of subsidiarity are fundamental to ensuring that european policies are consistent with the territories they affect. the committee of the regions hosts representatives of those institutions which have the greatest influence and awareness on the quality of life and well-being of citizens, managing fundamental policies such as health, services and welfare. the resources allocated to it and managed by it are for the benefit of an activity which is closely linked to that of the european parliament. the committee's efforts to achieve global savings are welcome, provided that they do not jeopardize its activities. through its opinions, the committee brings awareness of national, regional and local identities to europe. it is essential for us to hear the voices of the institutions closest to the citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting the committee of the regions discharge in respect of the general budget for 2013, on the basis of the court of auditors' report. the committee of the regions was pleased to note that no significant weaknesses were identified for the committee of the regions in the audited aspects of human resources and procurement. the committee of the regions is the institution that safeguards the interests of the regions and local authorities of the eu, and proper and sound management of the budget and thus of european resources is a sign of great democratic importance and a guarantee of the functioning of the institutions.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the committee of the regions assesses the issues related to the performance, financial management and control of this eu institution. i voted in favour, as did my group, because i regarded the committee of the regions' cost monitoring and evaluation studies as positive. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which approves the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, for the committee of the regions, since, on the basis of the court of auditors' report, the committee of the regions has effectively fulfilled its expenditure commitments for the year 2013 in accordance with the criteria of transparency and legality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report giving discharge to the committee of the regions in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. the report welcomes the fact that the court of auditors found in its 2013 annual report that the committee of the regions did not have any significant weaknesses in the audited aspects of human resources and procurement. i therefore congratulate the committee on the consistent quality of its annual activity report and on the comprehensive annual impact report it provides, which is an important tool for assessing its work.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for the work he has done and hope that i have made my contribution.
in writing. ‒ the committee of the regions is an important instrument for bringing citizens closer to the european union, its members being regional and local representatives who work mostly in their home regions or cities, thus in contact with the electorate itself. the court of auditors' audit revealed an effective and efficient allocation of resources to the committee of the regions, which has proved to be faithful to its commitments. i therefore chose to give my vote in favour of the discharge to the committee of the regions for the 2013 budget.
in writing. i voted against the decision proposing to grant the committee of the regions discharge in order to send a strong signal against the failure to comply with the judgment of the european union civil service tribunal of 7 may 2013 condemning the committee for abuse of a whistleblower. we must not tolerate any ill-treatment of whistleblowers within it or in other institutions of the union and i would like to reiterate the need to ensure full compliance with the rules on the protection of whistleblowers. the institutions must demonstrate their commitment to this: the committee of the regions had already been admonished in the european parliament's decision of january 2004 p5_ta(2004)0048 for its official obstruction of the financial controller/internal auditor, and yet had not complied with parliament's decisions.
oral explanations of vote
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ although balanced, there are passages in the text which i do not agree with, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the results achieved by the european ombudsman on the financial level (98% of implementation rate) are very remarkable. furthermore i was very pleased by the very impressive rate of 70% of cases closed in less than one year.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ considering that the court of auditors, in its 2013 annual report, found that no significant weaknesses or material errors were identified with regard to the european ombudsman, i voted in favour of granting the ombudsman a discharge.
in writing. ‒ i note with satisfaction that the court of auditors, in its 2013 annual report, noted that it had not identified any significant weaknesses in the audited aspects relating to human resources and procurement as regards the european ombudsman. i also note the continuing improvements in financial planning and control and i ask that this effort be continued in the coming financial years. for these reasons i voted in favour of the discharge for the budget of the european ombudsman.
in writing. ‒ i believe that sound financial and budgetary management by the european institutions is a sign of quality. i welcomed the european ombudsman's commitment to present an annual activity report, which provides a detailed assessment of the resources allocated and their use. that is why, after a thorough analysis of the documentation relating to the discharge for the implementation of the budgetary section of the european union for the european ombudsman, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the vote on granting the ombudsman discharge because, although this institution is sustainable in terms of the basic services it provides to citizens, i do not agree with the translation costs of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 discharge of the european ombudsman as it showed the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the budget.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain on the resolution because the role of the ombudsman is important and guarantees that citizens and associations can turn to him to ask for compliance with the rules in force. in practice, however, it has few powers and the ombudsman's budget in 2013 amounted to eur 9.7 million.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section viii the european ombudsman. the court of auditors' audits show that the 2013 commitments for the overall appropriations are in line with the previous year, and i believe it is important to highlight this and inform the public and the voters.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the report by mr czarnecki, supporting the ombudsman's annual management plan for 2013, which includes a key performance indicator framework. on the basis of the court of auditors' analysis, the ombudsman managed the resources available in the 2013 budget in a transparent and effective manner.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european ombudsman assesses the issues relating to the performance, financial management and control of this eu institution. i have expressed my favourable opinion, in line with my political group, as i considered the monitoring and evaluation inquiries into the costs of the european ombudsman to be positive. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union.
in writing. ‒ according to the court of auditors' assessments, the financial performance of the european ombudsman for the financial year 2013 met the criteria of eligibility and transparency. i therefore considered it consistent to vote in favour of this document, which takes note of what the court of auditors has said.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report in question, which specifically concerns the granting of discharge to the european ombudsman's office for the financial year 2013. the report highlights that, as regards that office, there are no significant weaknesses in the audited aspects relating to human resources and procurement. it indicates, however, that improvements have been made to the financial programming and its monitoring by approving the annual management plan for 2013 containing a framework for evaluating key performance indicators in order to measure the office's capabilities. in 2013, the european ombudsman's office largely met its target of closing investigations in less than one year (70%). finally, i welcome the appointment of a woman as 'mediator'. i do, however, share mr czarnecky's call for a plan for equal opportunities, particularly in management.
in writing. ‒noting the ombudsman's commitment to continue improving its system for the timely monitoring and control of recruitment and procurement procedures, the fact that the ombudsman is constantly working to improve financial planning to ensure the most effective possible implementation of the budget, as well as the continuous improvements in financial planning and its control, and asking that this effort be continued in the next budget years, i voted in favour for these reasons.
in writing. ‒ within the european context, the ombudsman's role is to collect complaints from citizens, businesses, associations and other parties based in the european union about maladministration involving the union's institutions and bodies. because of the importance of the role played and the continuing improvements in financial planning and its control, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge to the european ombudsman.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ i do not share the views expressed in the czarnecki report on the european data protection supervisor, which is why i voted against the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this resolution because the edps showed good faith in taking note of the observations made by ep in its 2010 and 2012 discharge resolutions thus improving its efficiency and efficacy in 2013.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ considering that the court of auditors, in its 2013 annual report, found that no significant weaknesses or material errors were identified with regard to the european data protection supervisor, i voted in favour of granting the discharge to the supervisor.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge because of the commitment of the european data protection supervisor to continue to improve its system for the timely monitoring and control of recruitment and procurement procedures. in particular, i am pleased that the edps has taken up the observations in his discharge resolutions for the financial years 2010 and 2012 in order to establish his strategy for 2013-2014 and that the implementation of that strategy is showing positive results at the level of the activities.
in writing. ‒ as is well known, the data protection supervisor plays a particularly important role in respecting the fundamental right to data protection and it is in this context that his powers have been substantially strengthened by the lisbon treaty, extending them to all the policies of the european union. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the opportunity to present its opinion on the draft budget for the european union.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the vote on the granting of the contract for the data protection officer as i agree with the translation costs of the institution.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the report on the discharge for implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section ix european data protection officer. the commitment of the guarantor to continue to improve its system for the timely monitoring and control of recruitment and procurement procedures is recognised in the report approved, and i agree with my colleague that it is good to note an increase in the rate of implementation of the overall appropriations.
in writing. i have decided today to vote in favour of the report by mr czarnecki on the discharge for the general budget of the eu for 2013 in respect of the european data protection supervisor, as no problems have been identified in the management of the budget, despite concerns about the lack of women in management positions (67% - 33%).
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european data protection supervisor assesses the performance, financial management and control issues of this eu institution. i have expressed my favourable opinion, in line with my political group, as i regarded the monitoring and evaluation studies on the costs of the european data protection supervisor as positive. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union.
in writing. ‒ on the basis of the court of auditors' report, the use of the funds made available to the european data protection supervisor's office for the year 2013 met the criteria of transparency and appropriateness of expenditure. i therefore think it is appropriate to express my support for the czarnecki report, which approves the budgetary activity carried out by this community agency in 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report in question, which specifically concerns the granting of discharge to the office of the european data protection supervisor in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for 2013. the report shows that the european data protection supervisor has taken account of the observations contained in the european parliament's discharge reports for the financial years 2010 and 2012 in order to establish its strategy for 2013-2014, and that the implementation of that strategy shows positive results at the level of activities. however, more attention should be paid to ensuring sound financial management than to the principle of budgetary annuality, i.e. the economy, effectiveness and efficiency with which the european guarantor must use the appropriations at its disposal to carry out the tasks assigned to it.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for his work and hope that i have made my contribution.
in writing. ‒ this body was set up in 2001 with the aim of ensuring that the right to privacy is respected when personal data are processed by the eu institutions and bodies. over the years, the ombudsman has strengthened his powers, extending protection to all areas covered by union policies. in view of the work done by the guarantor and also following the positive assessment of the committee on budgetary control, which decided to grant discharge, i voted in favour.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ i believe that the report analysing the performance, financial management and control of eu agencies offers positions that can be shared, although there are still some steps that i consider to be unbalanced.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed this resolution because i acknowledge the importance of the role played by the eu agencies and the deep impact they have on the citizens' lives and how important they are in supporting union policies.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable. too often the agencies' functions are not carried out in a transparent manner.
in writing. ‒ given the importance of the tasks carried out by the agencies and their direct impact on the daily lives of eu citizens, their autonomy and their tasks in technical or scientific evaluations and in assisting the commission in the management of community programmes, i voted in favour of granting discharge to these agencies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge because of the importance of the tasks carried out by the agencies and their direct impact on the daily lives of the citizens of the union, as well as the autonomy of the agencies, in particular those regulating and those whose function is to collect information independently. i recognise the role of agencies in supporting the union's policies and would like to underline the contribution of agencies in the context of activities aimed at achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the budgets of the european union agencies, because of the valuable technical and scientific contribution they make to support european policies.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the discharge as it highlights all the shortcomings and criticisms relating to the agencies.
in writing. ‒ i vote against this report which stresses the importance of the tasks carried out by the agencies. we do not think that this uncritical position is acceptable. it is not right and democratic to give a single and absolutely positive view of the role of the agencies.
in writing. ‒ agencies play a very important role for the european union, but the division of tasks needs to be rationalised and avoidable overspending. it is important that the cost-benefit approach be maintained, that new agencies be created only where strictly necessary and that the existing structure be rationalised through appropriate mergers. for these reasons and in order to underline these remarks, i voted in favour of the report, but we shall continue to ensure that these words are followed up.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2013: performance, financial management and control. agencies play a crucial role in the life and functioning of the eu, and have a direct impact on the daily lives of the citizens of the union. their autonomy makes control and transparency of their management all the more necessary, and it will be essential to continue to ensure this approach.
in writing. the decision approving the discharge is an important instrument of democratic control. parliament exercised this prerogative in its approval of the 2013 general budget with regard to the performance, financial management and control of the eu agencies, which play an important executive role. it is considered necessary to undertake a serious analysis in order to evaluate the possibility of merging those agencies carrying out similar tasks, where appropriate.
in writing. ‒ report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2013: performance, financial management and control, assesses the financial management and control issues of 32 eu agencies; agencies that use 1.4% of the eu's general budget. i voted in favour, in line with my group, because i regarded the monitoring and evaluation studies on the costs of the various agencies as positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect more and more cooperation between the agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report in question, which specifically concerns the authorisation for discharge to be given to the european union agencies for the financial year 2013. the report first notes that the number of agencies has been steadily increasing over the last decade, from 3 in 2000 to 32 in 2013. it also stresses the importance of the tasks carried out by these agencies and their direct impact on the daily lives of union citizens, as well as their autonomy, in particular in the field of regulation and the role of independent information gathering. the report recalls that the agencies were established primarily for the purpose of carrying out independent technical or scientific assessments; notes that the role of the executive agencies is to assist the commission in managing union programmes on behalf of the union itself. it therefore calls on the commission and the network of union agencies to improve their communication policies to ensure that agencies communicate effectively with citizens in order to raise awareness of productivity and results.
in writing. ‒ noting that only one agency, the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (cdt), publishes its annual activity report in all the official languages of the union, while three agencies translate summaries of their annual activity reports into 23 official languages, with the exception of irish; notes that the network, under the guidance of the cot, has conducted a survey on the approach of the agencies to multilingualism; noting that the survey shows that current approaches to multilingualism are very diverse and that, as each agency has its own target audience, stakeholders with different needs and budgets and sizes, there cannot be a single language policy for all agencies; i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the discharge to the eu agencies, whose budget for the 2013 financial year represents 1.4% of the eu budget. i voted in favour, although 10 agencies have not yet signed the agreement on their seat.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution which contains the comments accompanying the discharge decisions for each agency: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the regulation of the european parliament and the council on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting and the regulation of the european central bank. the report also draws attention to a number of problems in relation to several agencies, such as shortcomings in financial planning and difficulties in the management of procurement and contracts. the problem of lack of transparency or rigor in recruitment and potential conflicts of interest is particularly important: the situation remains rather complex and it is recommended that action be taken to resolve this situation as soon as possible, since it risks undermining the credibility of the agencies as a whole. the report also calls for a clearer and more uniform procedure for presenting the accounts to the european parliament, with comparable data and greater accounting control by parliament itself, in order to safeguard the principle of transparency of public accounts.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ the report highlights a general situation of inefficiency in the agency for cooperation between national energy regulators, which is why i did not intend to vote in favour of granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because acer implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors and showed a very high implementation rate.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ considering that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting the discharge to acer.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge because the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. furthermore, i have positively learned from the court's report that regarding two observations made in the court's 2011 report and classified as 'ongoing' in the court's 2012 report, corrective action has been taken and that both recommendations are 'completed' in the court's 2013 report.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the court of auditors' conclusions, which in its analysis gave a positive assessment of the reliability and regularity of the financial operations of the agency for the cooperation of national energy regulators, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge to be given to the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) for problems of data transparency, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement and payment procedures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 discharge of the agency for the cooperation of national energy regulators as it showed reliability of accounts and the legitimacy and regularity of the budget.
in writing. ‒ the resolution photographs a situation of inefficiency in the agency on several fronts. from an accounting point of view, the commission still has a credit clearance from the court of auditors for some inconsistencies in financial management, but its conflict prevention and management strategy in line with the commission's guidelines has not yet been defined and is still subject to internal approval. i vote against the discharge to the agency.
in writing. i support the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, which has already been approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer). the european parliament voted to reiterate that acer plays a valuable and important role in monitoring the internal markets for electricity and natural gas, in particular by contributing to the constant updating of a european database of major strategic importance.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge for the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer), which assists and coordinates at community level the national authorities of the member states of the union which regulate energy markets. my vote follows the careful assessment of the court of auditors' report on the management of the agency, which identified a number of measures to improve the budget planning processes.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) assesses the performance, financial management and control issues of the eu agency. i have expressed my favourable opinion, in line with my political group, as i regarded the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators as positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ the agency for the cooperation of national energy regulators implemented a number of measures for the financial year 2013 to ensure improved budget planning procedures. for this substantive reason, i have decided to support the report signed by mr czarnecki, which approves the discharge for the financial year 2013 of this agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report in question, which specifically concerns the discharge to be given to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013. the measures relating to the recommendations on the agency's recruitment procedures were formalised by the adoption of decision 2014-06 of its director of 4 april 2014. the agency also implemented a number of measures to improve budget planning procedures by developing and implementing a set of guidelines for use by the actors involved in the process and carried out regular forecasting and audit exercises on the use of appropriations, including monthly monitoring and reporting on the implementation of the budget.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control (a7-0214/2014), whereas the entire budget of the agency comes from the union budget; whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013 ('the court's report'), has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular; i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the accounts of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013 also appear to be in order. the agency also took corrective actions following the 2012 recommendations of the court of auditors and these are completed, with two exceptions. it is seen as a positive thing that the agency has reviewed its strategy to prevent conflicts of interest, following the commission's guidelines. as a result of this review the agency has drawn up a new policy which i hope will be forwarded to the landfill authorities as soon as possible. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote to give a discharge to acer, the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, which is responsible for the proper functioning of the single european gas and electricity market. in its report on acer's annual accounts, the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the examination carried out by the committee on budgetary control also gave a positive result, although it noted improvements to be made in the management of the agency's budget.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ although the report does not raise any particular criticisms of berec's financial management, it lacks any substantive assessment of the work carried out, which is essential for judging the sustainability and economic management of the berec, and for these reasons i did not support the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because berec implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors and showed a very high implementation rate.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting discharge to berec.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge because the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the office's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i particularly appreciated the fact that the office has taken measures to mitigate budget implementation and monitoring issues by establishing monthly budget meetings for the office's administrators and by preparing detailed summaries of the state of implementation of the budget, which are submitted on a quarterly basis to the management committee for comments.
in writing. ‒ having carefully considered the comments on the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2012, i have decided to give my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the granting of the discharge to the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) for data transparency issues, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement procedures and payment procedures.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec). i therefore agree with my colleague that berec was set up to promote the consistent implementation of european legislation in such a crucial and strategic area.
in writing. the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) plays an important role in assisting the european commission and national regulatory authorities (nras) in implementing european legislation in the field of electronic communications. i decided to vote for the discharge for that body, following the recommendations from the cont committee and learning from the court's report that the office's budget implementation rates have improved significantly compared to 2012.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) assesses the performance, financial management and control issues of the eu agency. i voted in favour, in line with my group, because i regarded as positive the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec). in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ i support mr czarnecki's report on the importance of sound, fair and transparent financial management of the european institutions, and in this case of berec. finally, the shortcomings relating to the legality and regularity of the office's operations were addressed by introducing measures to improve the rates of budget implementation, control and monitoring, to address commitments and carry-overs, and to recruit and train staff. i am therefore pleased with the results achieved also in terms of improving communication with european citizens about the impact of the work of this office on them.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control (a7-0214/2014), whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2013 ('the court's report'), has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular; notes that in the court's report, as regards three observations made in the court's 2011 report and reported as 'ongoing' in the court's 2012 report, corrective actions were taken and all recommendations are reported as 'completed' in the court's 2013 report; i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendations of the court of auditors, which gave the go-ahead in its report on the annual accounts of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2013, the body of european regulators for electronic communications has taken the required corrective actions and almost all of them are completed. it also shows that the body of european regulators for electronic communications has improved its planning and there is a more timely execution of activities. i hope you will review the delays in payments which are many times over the thirty-day limit.
in writing. ‒ following a positive assessment by the committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) for the financial year 2013. the agency has demonstrated that it has respected the commitments previously given and the deadlines set by the court of auditors in its 2011 and 2012 reports. in addition, the office's budget implementation rates improved significantly compared to the previous year, indicating better planning and timely execution of activities.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ the report on the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union has revealed some criticisms which i consider to be relevant, such as unjustified extensions of certain framework contracts, rather than obvious shortcomings in internal control procedures, and for these reasons i did not support the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because cdt implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors and showed a very remarkable increase in the implementation rate.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ considering that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the translation centre for eu bodies (tce) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting the tce discharge.
in writing. ‒ it is clear from this discharge that the 2012 budget surplus of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union was mainly generated by external factors beyond its control and that the centre has taken measures to reduce it. the centre also learns that its budgets for 2014 and 2015 were planned as deficit budgets in order to use part of the surpluses of the previous years. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge because i regard as positive these efforts by the translation centre of the bodies of the european union to have a transparent budget and to respect the amount originally planned.
in writing. ‒ on the basis of the court of auditors' assessment of the financial statements of the translation centre for bodies of the european union (tcb), i intend to express my vote in favour of discharge for the centre's 2013 budget.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the granting of discharge to the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (tce) for problems of data transparency, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement and payment procedures. in addition, there is duplication and overlap of tasks with other agencies which should be avoided.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge as the management of the translation centre had several criticisms (unjustified extension of framework contracts, shortcomings in internal control procedures, etc.).
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the report on the discharge for implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (cdt). i note, as my colleague has pointed out, that the translation centre for the bodies of the union provides translation services of the utmost importance to the life of the eu, strictly necessary for the functioning of the specialised and decentralised agencies of the union. i am voting in favour of this report because it is a very important and wide-ranging piece of work. the commission's proposal is also extended to community institutions and bodies which already have their own translation services, in order to absorb any additional workload.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge in respect of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (ctbt). this body meets the translation needs of the other agencies of the european union. the court of auditors' report considered that there were sufficient guarantees that european resources were being used correctly, in accordance with the principles of sound financial management. the commission notes that the budgetary control efforts undertaken during the financial year 2013 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 83,47% and that the payment appropriations execution rate was 77,68%.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (tcb) assesses the issues related to the performance, financial management and control of the eu agency. i voted in favour, in line with my group, because i regarded the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (ctb) as positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ considering that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the centre's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, and that there were no other problems, i have decided to support the report by mr czarnecki granting discharge for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ taking note from the court's report that the two corrective actions taken following the observations made for the previous year are marked as 'in progress'; notes that the budget control efforts undertaken during the financial year 2013 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 83,47% and that the payment appropriations execution rate was 77,68%; i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ for the financial year 2013, the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the centre's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the transactions carried out. it is good that the translation centre has prepared an action plan to reduce the high administrative costs that have been incurred in human resources, information technology and infrastructure. that is why i am voting in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ following a positive assessment by the committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (cdt) for the financial year 2013. since 1994, the cdt has been providing the translation services necessary for the functioning of the specialised and decentralised agencies of the european union, often extending this activity to the institutions themselves which already have their own translation service, in order to absorb any overload of work. the court of auditors in its report for the financial year 2013 stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the centre's annual accounts and that the centre had also drawn up an action plan to reduce its administrative costs.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ while finding the czarnecki report on the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training balanced and shareable, the only concrete action it highlights is a pan-european qualification survey; i therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because cedefop implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors and showed a clear reduction of carryovers. furthermore the i am pleased by the budget rationalization achieved by the centre for the fiscal year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) for the financial year 2013, which stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting discharge to cedefop.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge because the work of the european centre for the development of vocational training is of great relevance to the union's policy agenda on vocational education and training and qualifications. i therefore congratulate the centre on the outcome of the commission's 2013 evaluation, which identified it as a world-leading centre of excellence for qualifications and competences frameworks and recognised its important contribution to strengthening cooperation between education stakeholders in europe.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the activities of the centre are of major importance to the union's policy agenda in the field of vocational education and training. therefore, having noted the regularity of the transactions in cedefop's annual accounts, i intend to vote in favour of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the granting of discharge to the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) for problems of data transparency, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement and payment procedures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 discharge of the european centre for the development of vocational training as it has shown the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the budget.
in writing. i support the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, which has already been approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the report on the discharge for implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop). this centre makes a completely independent and authoritative european scientific contribution, but it is important that its activity and transparency should be certified, by voting on it, and by reiterating the useful supporting role it plays in the field of vocational education and training in relation to the commission.
in writing. following the measures taken by the management and the management of the european centre for the development of vocational training, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge to the body in question. this aims to promote the development of education and training within the eu. although it is noted that the repair work on the building housing the centre continues to be delayed and will not be completed until 2014, i voted in favour, with the request that this situation be resolved as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) assesses the issues related to the performance, financial management and control of the eu agency. i voted in favour, in line with my group, because i regarded as positive the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop). in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors has ruled that the european centre for the development of vocational training has duly fulfilled its expenditure commitments for the financial year 2013. on that basis, i have decided to support this document, which approves the discharge for the year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of authorising the 2013 discharge for the general budget of the european centre for vocational training (cedefop) because it has managed the funds in a high-quality manner and in line with the forecasts made earlier.
in writing. ‒ noting that in the court's report, regarding two observations made in the 2011 report that were 'ongoing', corrective actions have been taken and both recommendations are now 'completed' in the court's 2012 report; notes furthermore that as regards the three observations made in the court's 2012 report, two corrective actions were taken in response to the observations on the previous year's financial year and that they are now 'completed' and the third one is 'not applicable'; whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the centre for the financial year 2013, has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the centre's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european centre for the development of vocational training presents regular annual accounts for the financial year 2013 and the financial situation is correctly presented. the centre also initiated appropriate corrective actions, following the recommendations of the parliament. that is why i am voting in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ following a positive assessment by the committee on budgetary control, which underlined the importance of the centre's work for the union's policy agenda on vocational education and training and qualifications, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2013.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ the report highlights important criticisms of commitments and carry-overs, and the need to obtain more precise information from beneficiaries at the end of the year on expenditure incurred. the court of auditors also notes that the academy's recruitment procedures are not yet fully transparent and its activities appear to be so ineffective as to have generated a debate on its future, for all these reasons i voted against the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because cepol implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors and showed a very high implementation rate. nonetheless i strongly encourage the college to further improve the carryover levels.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ considering that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european police college (cepol) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting the discharge to cepol.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this discharge because i support the academy's efforts to ensure that the move to the new premises is carried out in accordance with the principles of sound financial management. i am particularly pleased that the academy officially resumed its activities at its new headquarters in budapest in october 2014; and this transfer has generated annual savings of eur 200 000 as the use of offices in the new premises is free of charge and the infrastructure is made available for a period of at least ten years.
in writing. ‒ welcoming the commitment of the european police college to improve budgetary controls, i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the college's budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the granting of discharge to the european police college (cepol) for problems of data transparency, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement and payment procedures. in addition, there is duplication and overlap of tasks with other agencies which should be avoided.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european police college (cepol). this academy plays a key role in crossborder cooperation and is taking decisive and extremely sensitive action in the strategy to combat crime.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge in respect of the european police college (cepol). it brings together senior european police officers with the aim of encouraging crossborder cooperation in the fight against crime, the maintenance of public security, law and order. the court of auditors has noted that the academy's recruitment procedures are not yet fully transparent and therefore encourages cepol to improve its procedures in this regard.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european police college (cepol) assesses the issues related to the performance, financial management and control of the eu agency. i voted in favour, in line with my political group, because i regarded the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the european police college (cepol) as positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors' report on the implementation of the 2013 budget by the european police college (cepol) did not highlight any particular anomalies in the management of community funding by the european police college. i have therefore decided to support this report, which approves the budgetary activity carried out by this community agency in 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report in question, which concerns, in particular, the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2013. in general, however, i believe that, in accordance with the principle of annuality of the budget, cepol should pay greater attention to the principle of sound financial management, i.e. in accordance with the principles of economy, effectiveness and efficiency, in the use of the appropriations at its disposal to carry out the tasks entrusted to it.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control (a7-0214/2014), whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european police college for the financial year 2013, stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the college's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the move of the academy to its new location in budapest has resulted in significant savings, but the court of auditors has suggested improvements in budget planning and greater transparency in the recruitment process. in accordance with the positive assessment of the committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of discharge, although cepol will have to pay greater attention to the principle of sound financial management, that is to say, to the principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness, in the use of the appropriations at its disposal to carry out the tasks entrusted to it.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ although balanced, i do not share the positions taken in the czarnecki report and have therefore voted against the granting of discharge to the european chemicals agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because easa implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors. nevertheless the high level of carryovers is at odds with the budgetary principle of annuality and, therefore, it should be dealt with.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ considering that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european aviation safety agency (easa) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting discharge to easa.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge because the agency has played a key role in ensuring the highest level of aviation safety across europe. i also welcome the fact that, following the request made by parliament during the 2012 discharge procedure, the agency has completed the publication of the annual declarations of interests and curricula of the executive officers, members of the management board on its website, thus demonstrating its progress towards eliminating its conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ as is well known, easa plays a leading role in ensuring the safety of civil aviation in europe. therefore, also in the light of the current review of the single european sky legislation, which could strengthen its powers, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge for the european aviation safety agency (easa) for problems of data transparency, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement and payment procedures
in writing. ‒ the germanwings incident shocked the world and raised questions for millions of citizens about aviation safety. we cannot allow events like this to happen again: the european union has a duty to ensure that the safety of its citizens is not compromised by the lack of a single european air safety standard.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency (easa). a high level of civil aviation safety in europe is essential to the achievement of a single european sky, and by certifying the effectiveness of the work of this important agency, citizens know that they can count on a good example of european governance.
in writing. the european aviation safety agency is the eu's aviation industry watchdog. with the creation of easa and the common rules on civil aviation, the eu member states have set themselves the task of promoting a uniform european regulatory model throughout the world. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour of mr czarnecki's report.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency (easa) assesses the issues related to the performance, financial management and control of the eu agency. i voted in favour, in line with my group, because i regarded the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the european aviation safety agency (easa) as positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors reported that the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2013 was implemented in accordance with the criteria of appropriateness and eligibility of expenditure. for this reason, i have considered it appropriate to express my agreement to this document, which takes note of the court of auditors' report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 discharge for the general budget of the european aviation safety agency as the court of auditors found the accounts reliable and the underlying transactions to be legitimate and regular. i also agree that the agency should put in place more precise mechanisms for setting objectives and evaluating results and i urge it to conclude as soon as possible an agreement with the host member state on the location of the agency.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur for his work and hope that i have made a contribution.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased with the regularity of the accounts of the european aviation safety agency (easa), as certified by the court of auditors. i believe that easa has a key role to play in ensuring the highest level of aviation safety in european skies and, with the review of the single european sky legislation, it should have additional responsibilities which will require adequate financial resources to perform its functions to the best of its ability.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to give my vote in favour of the discharge to the european aviation safety agency for the 2013 budget both for its key role in ensuring the highest level of aviation safety across europe and for the regularity of the accounts and the ability to deliver on time the commitments made, as established by the court of auditors for the 2013 budget.
oral explanations of vote
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ the czarnecki report on the discharge for the european asylum support office is balanced and acceptable, but the fact remains that the budget for this office was overestimated by 13% and it appears that 18% of payments were made after the deadlines set by the specific regulation, for these reasons i voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because easa implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors and showed a very high implementation rate. nevertheless i noted that the budgetary needs of the office were largely overestimated. we should make sure that the next estimates are more accurate.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the european asylum support office (easo) for the financial year 2013, which stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting discharge to easo.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge because the court of auditors has stated that the annual accounts of the european asylum support office (easo) present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position, and that the results of its operations and the cash flows for the financial year are legal and regular. the court of auditors has also noted that the 2013 financial year was the first full year in which easo was financially autonomous.
in writing. ‒ considering that easo has, for the first time, carried out the entire financial year 2013 in full financial autonomy and that the court of auditors has ascertained the legitimacy of its financial position, i have decided to express my vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the discharge for the european asylum support office (easo) on data transparency issues, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement and payment procedures. in addition, there is duplication and overlap of tasks with other agencies which should be avoided.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office (easo). the current immigration emergency, which has italy at the forefront, must lead, as the italian government has rightly pointed out, to a new european solidarity also in the matter of asylum. the work of easo can be a very useful tool, in the hope that the political will of the other member states will also recognize this fundamental need.
in writing. at the last european council on 23 april, the heads of state or government gave the european asylum support office an important task. they agreed to send agency teams to the member states on the front line of asylum management to assist the relevant institutions. the most immediate observation is that if there were a fair system for distributing asylum applications and more solidarity between member states, the european union would probably not need easo. but since this is a utopia, the asylum office should really go to the aid of those national institutions and regional offices that are now collapsing. the 10 million and 500 thousand euro in its annual budget must be used to ease asylum procedures, which often take years, and to ensure that refugees are given the protection to which they are entitled.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr czarnecki's report in favour of the european asylum support office, as the court of auditors stated that it had not found any particular inconsistencies with regard to its general budget. however, it is noted that the recruitment procedures show a lack of transparency and we therefore call on easo to remedy this.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office (easo) assesses the issues related to the performance, financial management and control of the eu agency. i voted in favour, in line with my group, because i regarded the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the european asylum support office (easo) as positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ as confirmed by the court of auditors, the european asylum support office has duly fulfilled its expenditure commitments for the year 2013. i therefore thought it appropriate to support this report, which approves the budget of this community agency for the year 2013, by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the court's report on the annual accounts of the european asylum support office (easo) for the financial year 2013, and having regard to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions of the office, i have decided to support the request of the rapporteur, mr czarnecki, to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. however, i would urge easo to take note of the court's observations indicating the improvements to be made in the area of the reliability of accounts, internal controls and budgetary management, as well as in the area of recruitment procedures and their transparency. i believe that in general, in accordance with the principle of annuality of the budget, easo should pay greater attention to the principle of sound financial management, i.e. in accordance with the principles of economy, effectiveness and efficiency, in the use of the appropriations at its disposal to carry out the tasks entrusted to it.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control (a7-0214/2014), whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2013 ('the court's report'), has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular; that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors has found that the annual accounts of the european asylum support office (easo) present fairly its financial position for the year 2013. the court of auditors itself points to the right improvements that can be made in the area of the reliability of the accounts, internal controls and budgetary management. the commission has also received comments from the european parliament and the council on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data.
in writing. ‒ following the positive assessment of the committee on budgetary control and the important role played by easo, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge to be given to that agency for the 2013 budget. the court of auditors' examination has shown that some improvements could be made both in budget planning and in the areas of reliability of accounts, internal controls and budget management.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ the critical insights offered by this report on the european banking authority led me to vote against the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i endorse this resolution because the european banking agency plays a key role in ensuring the stability of the financial market and so it should be properly funded. nonetheless i noted that the level of carryovers was relatively high.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2013. having noted that the final annual accounts of the european banking authority are as annexed to the court of auditors' report, i have approved the granting of discharge to the director of the european banking authority on the basis of the following considerations: - on financial and budgetary management, i note that the court's report that the overall level of the authority's committed appropriations was 90% (89% in 2012); - on procurement and recruitment procedures, the court's report makes no comments on the authority's procurement procedures; - on internal audit, i note with concern that the sai identified certain processes with high inherent risk in the risk analysis that could not be considered auditable under the audit plan, as controls were considered to be absent or insufficient.
in writing. ‒ considering that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european banking authority (eba) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting the discharge to the eba.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge because the role of the authority in promoting a common supervisory regime across the internal market is essential to ensure better and more efficient integration and security in the union banking sector, thereby contributing to economic recovery, job creation and growth in europe, as well as to preventing future crises in the financial sector. i would, however, like the authority to coordinate with the european central bank in its banking supervision function in order to avoid overlapping and excess capacity creation.
in writing. ‒ the authority plays a key role in ensuring safety in the banking sector by contributing to the development of high-quality common regulatory and supervisory standards and practices. on the basis of those considerations, i intend to vote in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the eba's budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge for the european banking authority (eba) on data transparency issues, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement and payment procedures.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority (eba). since its recent establishment the authority has had the crucial task of protecting the public interest by contributing to the stability of the financial system, and i welcome the statement by my colleague that it also certifies the transparency and fairness of its activities.
in writing. ‒ the european banking authority (eba) was instrumental in the creation of the european system of financial supervision and remains one of its pillars. i voted in favour of today's report, hoping that the eba's work will be the backbone of the european union's defence against future economic and financial crises, by safeguarding the smooth functioning of banks and protecting the savings of citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr czarnecki on the discharge to the european banking authority (eba). the court's report shows that the authority has succeeded in substantially reducing the overall level of commitment appropriations carried over.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority (eba) assesses the performance, financial management and control issues of the eu agency. i voted in favour, in line with my political group, because i considered the european banking authority's (eba) cost monitoring and evaluation studies to be positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors has found that the european banking authority has duly fulfilled its expenditure commitments for the financial year 2013. i have therefore decided to support the report by mr czarnecki, which takes note of the court of auditors' report.
in writing. ‒ the european banking authority (eba) is responsible for contributing to the development of high-quality common regulatory and supervisory standards and practices, for monitoring and assessing market developments in its field of competence and for promoting the protection of depositors and investors. the role of eba in promoting a common supervisory regime across the single market is essential to ensure better integration, efficiency and security in the union banking sector, thereby contributing to economic recovery, job creation and growth, as well as to preventing future crises in the financial sector. the authority should, however, fully exercise its consumer protection powers under its current mandate. in the light of the foregoing, and having regard to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts of the eba and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2013, i have decided to endorse the report and therefore to grant a discharge to the eba for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, whereas, according to its financial statements, the final budget of the european banking authority ('the authority') for the financial year 2013 was eur 25 967 360, representing an increase of 25,16% compared to 2012 due to the authority's recent establishment; whereas, according to its financial statements, the initial contribution from the union to the agency's budget for 2013 was eur 10 386 944, representing an increase of 25,16% compared to 2012; whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european banking authority for the financial year 2013 ('the court's report'), has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the authority's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular; whereas the authority's task is to contribute to the development of high-quality common regulatory and supervisory rules and practices and to the uniform application of legally binding union acts, to encourage and facilitate the delegation of tasks and responsibilities between competent authorities, to monitor and assess market developments in its field of competence and to promote the protection of depositors and investors; that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to give my vote in favour of the discharge to the eba, the european banking authority, for the 2013 budget. its role in promoting a common supervisory regime across the single market is essential to ensure better integration, efficiency and security in the union banking sector, thereby contributing to economic recovery, job creation and growth in europe, as well as to preventing future financial crises.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ although balanced, i do not share the positions taken in the report and have therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution about the postponement of the granting of discharge for the financial year 2013 to the ecdc because weaknesses were found in respect of the budgetary planning and execution for operational meetings. moreover the ep received conflicting information regarding certain aspects of the implementation process. therefore i agree with the conclusions of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting discharge to the ecdc.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge because, according to the court of auditors, the transactions underlying the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 are legal and regular in all relevant respects. i also welcome the centre's efforts to complete the corrective actions taken on the basis of previous observations made by the court of auditors, with particular reference to the ex post audit strategy, and its commitment to monitor more closely the operational expenditure of meetings in order to avoid unnecessary carry-overs.
in writing. ‒ welcoming the commitment of the european centre for disease prevention and control to provide necessary budgetary and financial management corrective actions, i express my vote in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the ecdc's budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i abstain on the vote on the discharge for the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc).
in writing. ‒ i share the report's content and hope that the administration of such an important centre will be able to take account not only of the positive opinions but also of the concerns expressed: in particular, there is a need for more transparent tendering procedures and more virtuous financial management in the future.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc). the ecdc aims to achieve a noble goal, to help strengthen europe's defenses against infectious diseases, such as influenza, sars and hiv. the european parliament, by this vote, reaffirms the importance of this mission and attests its transparency in acting independently and effectively to prevent outbreaks of contagious diseases of unknown origin from threatening the community.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of mr czarnecki's report. in today's vote we have given a discharge for the general budget of the eu in respect of the european centre for disease prevention and control. the commission also found that the union industry had suffered material injury during the period considered.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) assesses the issues related to the performance, financial management and control of the eu agency. i have expressed my favourable opinion, in line with my political group, as i considered the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) to be positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of authorising the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control as the report shows that the centre had a positive budgetary result in 2013, which, when added to the negative result of previous years, resulted in an overall positive budgetary result. the commission has therefore decided to grant eur 2 012 975 to the commission in 2014 in respect of the 2013 budget. i also welcomed the centre's efforts to complete the corrective actions taken on the basis of the court's previous observations, with particular reference to the ex post verification strategy, and its commitment to monitor more closely the operational expenditure of meetings in order to avoid unnecessary carry-overs or reversals. finally, i am pleased that the court of auditors has found that the transactions underlying the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 are, in all respects, legal and regular.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on budgetary control (a7-0214/2014), whereas the overall contribution from the union to the centre's budget for 2013 was eur 56 727 000, which is the same as in 2012; stresses that this amount represents 0,039% of the overall union budget; whereas the court of auditors ('the court') in its report on the annual accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2013 ('the court's report') has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the centre's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the work of this agency, which was set up in 2005, is extremely relevant. the european centre for disease prevention and control was established to strengthen europe's defenses against infectious diseases such as influenza, sars and hiv/aids. in accordance with the positive assessment of the committee on budgetary control, which decided to grant discharge, i voted in favour.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ although balanced, i do not share the positions taken in the czarnecki report and have therefore voted against the granting of discharge to the european chemicals agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because echa implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors and showed a very remarkable increase in the implementation rate. nonetheless i find surprisingly high the percentage of committed appropriations that were carried over to the next year.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2013. i have approved the granting of discharge to the director of the european chemicals agency on the basis of the following considerations: - on financial and budgetary management, i note that as regards the bpr regulation, the agency's expenditure on biocides is financed partly by fees paid by industry and partly by contributions from the union budget; - also notes that in 2013, the agency's expenditure budget was mostly financed by union contributions; - on procurement and recruitment procedures, i note that, as regards the financial year 2013, neither the transactions included in the sample nor other audit findings gave rise, in the court's report, to comments on the agency's procurement procedures; - on internal audit, i note from the agency's general report that in 2013 the commission's internal audit service (ias) conducted an audit on 'management of committees in the european chemicals agency', which resulted in seven recommendations, including one marked as 'very important'.
in writing. ‒ whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european chemicals agency (echa) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting discharge to echa.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge because the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also appreciated the fact that the agency carried out an audit to increase the efficiency of the procurement procedures, which led to the definition of measures to be implemented in 2014.
in writing. ‒ whereas the echa regulatory authority plays a key role in the implementation of european chemicals legislation in order to protect human health and the environment. furthermore, noting that the revenue from which it benefits, guaranteed by the companies for the registration of chemicals, has enabled it to finance its operations in full, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge for the implementation of echa's budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge for the european chemicals agency (echa) on data transparency issues, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement and payment procedures.
in writing. ‒ chemistry is a key sector for europe, with a decisive impact on a wide range of industrial sectors and beyond. in order to ensure better protection and safety in this sector, alongside a number of other measures, there must also be an authority able to provide the eu with cutting-edge scientific data on these substances. the work of the european chemicals agency should therefore be supported: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. for these reasons, and in line with the observations contained in the report, i voted in favour.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency (echa). this vote is a testament to the remarkable work of echa, which is the driving force behind the implementation of european chemical standards to protect human health and the environment. echa provides information on chemicals and promotes their safe use, and is constantly working to help companies comply with legislation.
in writing. the court of auditors stated that it had not found any particular inconsistencies with regard to the general budget of the european chemicals agency (echa). i therefore voted in favour of granting discharge to him. however, it is noted that between 2012 and 2013 the staff costs increased by 11%.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency (echa) assesses the performance, financial management and control issues of the eu agency. i voted in favour, in line with my group, because i regarded the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the european chemicals agency (echa) as positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to the european chemicals agency (echa) for the 2013 budget. the role of the agency is particularly important, as echa assists companies to comply with legislation, promotes the safe use of chemicals, provides information on chemicals and deals with substances of concern.
in writing. ‒ in view of the court's report on the annual accounts of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2013, and the legality and regularity of the operations carried out by the european chemicals agency, i have decided to support the request of the rapporteur, mr czarnecki, to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. i welcomed the agency's commitment to follow up on the observations made in the previous financial year and i am absolutely positive that the agency has carried out an audit to increase the efficiency of contract management procedures.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on budgetary control (a7-0210/2014), whereas the agency has received union grants of eur 7 632 000 from the commission and pre-financing under the instrument for pre-accession assistance of eur 103 524, as well as other contributions and financing from the commission of eur 920 900; whereas the court of auditors ('the court') in its report on the annual accounts of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2013 ('the court's report') stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, that is why i voted in favour.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ i do not share the positions taken in the czarnecki report, for which i voted against the granting of discharge to the european environment agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because eea implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors and i particularly appreciated the agency's compliance with the principle of annuality and the timely execution of its budget.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013. having noted that the final annual accounts of the european environment agency are set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report, i have approved the discharge to be given to the director of the european environment agency on the following grounds: - on financial and budgetary management, i note that the budgetary control efforts undertaken during the financial year 2013 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 98,66%; - also notes that in 2013, the agency's expenditure budget was mostly financed by union contributions; - on procurement and recruitment procedures, i learn from the agency that it has drawn up a multiannual staff policy plan for the period 2013-2015, in line with the commission's guidelines, which has been approved by its management board; - on internal audit, i note that its internal audit structure finalised the audit report on the management of specific appropriations with a view to assessing the overall impact on the agency of projects financed by external assigned revenue.
in writing. ‒ whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european environment agency (eea) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting discharge to the eea.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that the agency is committed to constantly reviewing its staff and organisational structure to ensure that the agency carries out its activities and addresses its challenges as effectively as possible. in addition, the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. for these reasons i voted in favour of the discharge for the european environment agency.
in writing. ‒ the climate challenge is high on the agenda of the european institutions and in this context the environment agency's mission is of particular importance, as it aims to provide scientific information for the definition of european environmental policies. therefore, in the light of the progress made in the financial and budgetary management by the eea in order to ensure efficient activity, i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge for the european environment agency (eea) on data transparency issues, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement and payment procedures. in addition, there is duplication and overlap of tasks with other agencies which should be avoided.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 discharge of the european environment agency as it showed the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the budget.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency (eea). i agree with my colleague, who appreciates the monitoring work throughout the union and the useful promotion of environmental protection. we are therefore voting in favour of the proper and efficient management of the agency and i welcome the careful work of the auditors.
in writing. the european environment agency (eea) has become a key source of information for those involved in the development, adoption, implementation and evaluation of environmental policies. i have decided to vote in favour of the report by my colleague, since the court of auditors has stated that it has not found any particular inconsistencies in the agency's general budget.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency (eea) assesses the issues related to the performance, financial management and control of the eu agency. i voted in favour, in line with my group, because i regarded the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the european environment agency (eea) as positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ in its report on the annual budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013, the court of auditors stated that it had sufficient information to be able to give a positive assessment of the financial activity carried out by the agency. i have therefore decided to give my consent to this document, which takes note of the court of auditors' report.
in writing. ‒ considering that the court, in its report on the annual accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i have decided to support the request of the rapporteur, mr czarnecki, to grant discharge. i am pleased that the agency is committed to continuously reviewing its staff and organisational structure to ensure that it carries out its activities and meets its challenges as effectively as possible. in this respect, i welcome the fact that two ad-level posts were added to the establishment plan in 2013 to cover new tasks related to two important themes: the mitigation of climate change and the communication of air quality information. i also welcome the fact that, according to the court of auditors, the transactions underlying the annual accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013 are, in all material respects, legal and regular.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen,whereas, according to its financial statements, the final budget of the european environment agency (hereinafter referred to as 'the agency') for the financial year 2013 was eur 49.270.722, representing an increase of 18.16% compared to 2012; whereas this increase is largely linked to operational expenditure on strategic actions; whereas, according to its financial statements, the union contribution to the agency's budget for 2013 amounted to eur 34,886,367, representing a decrease of 1,35% compared to 2012; whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013 ('the court's report'), has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to the eea for the 2013 budget, not only because the agency plays a key role in environmental matters, providing independent information for those involved in the development, adoption, implementation and evaluation of environmental policies and for the general public, but also because of its efficiency in the allocation of resources in budgetary matters, as reported by the committee on budgetary control and the european court of auditors.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ the report provides some excellent critical points which have led me to vote against the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because efca implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors and achieved a very remarkable result in the implementation rate.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ considering that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european fisheries control agency (efca) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting discharge to the efca.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge because i recognise the quality and importance of the tasks carried out by the agency in implementing the common fisheries policy. i am also pleased to learn that corrective action has been taken with regard to a comment made in the court's 2011 report that was listed as 'ongoing' in the court's 2012 report and that, in the court's 2013 report, the action is now listed as 'completed'; in addition, corrective actions have been taken with regard to the two comments made in the court's 2012 report, one of which is now 'completed' and the other 'not applicable'.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency, because of the importance of the common fisheries policy and the need to promote effective control and surveillance of fishing activities, which the agency has so far ensured.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge for the european fisheries control agency (efca) because of problems of data transparency, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement and payment procedures.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency (efca). the agency's valuable work is not only to promote the highest standards of control, but also to facilitate operational cooperation between eu countries by providing assistance and training inspectors to ensure compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy. we are therefore voting in favour of the proper and efficient management of the agency and i welcome the careful work of the auditors.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge to the european fisheries control agency, in recognition of its active role in promoting and safeguarding a sector which is crucial to many geographical areas of our european union. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors has given a positive assessment of the financial activity carried out by the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2013. on this basis, i thought it appropriate to support the report by mr czarnecki, which takes note of the court of auditors' observations and comments.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report for the implementation of the european fisheries control agency (efca) budget assesses the issues related to the performance, financial management and control of the eu agency. i voted in favour, in line with my group, because i regarded the european fisheries control agency (efca) cost control and evaluation studies as positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2013, as the report shows the quality and importance of the missions carried out by the agency during the year. the court of auditors' annual report on the agency's financial year 2013 and the agency's annual activity report show no problems. since its creation, the agency has achieved excellent results through its effectiveness and consistency. it plays a very important role in the implementation of the common fisheries policy (cfp) and in achieving its objectives, particularly as regards the landing obligation and the monitoring, control and surveillance requirements for fishing activities. it will therefore be necessary to strengthen its financial and human resources for the years to come.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control (a7-0214/2014), whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2013 ('the court's report'), has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular; i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to the efca for the 2013 budget, not only because this agency plays a key role in the common fisheries policy, promoting the highest standards of control, inspection and surveillance, but also because of its efficiency in the allocation of budgetary resources, as reported by the committee on budgetary control and the european court of auditors.
oral explanations of vote
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ i did not support the granting of the efsa discharge, as i did not share the positions taken in the report under vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because efsa implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors and showed a very remarkable result in the implementation rate.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2013. having noted that the final annual accounts of the european food safety authority are set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report, i have approved the discharge to be given to the director of the european food safety authority in the following light: - on financial and budgetary management, i note that the budget monitoring efforts undertaken during the financial year 2013 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 98,80%, which is a slight decrease compared to the previous financial year (99,30%); - on procurement and recruitment procedures, i learn from the authority's annual accounts that 93,45% of the planned posts were filled at the end of 2013; acknowledges that the employment rate has decreased compared to 2012; - on internal audit, i regret that, in the course of the risk assessment, the sai identified certain processes with high inherent risks, with controls considered to be absent or insufficient.
in writing. ‒ whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european food safety authority (efsa) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting discharge to efsa.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the exemplary measures taken by the european food safety authority in terms of cost-effective and environmentally sound solutions for its headquarters. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge also because the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the authority's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the cost-cutting measures taken by the european food safety authority and the high quality standard of its activities, which it continues to ensure through its scientific advice on food safety, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the discharge for the european food safety authority (efsa) for problems of data transparency, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement and payment procedures. in addition, there is duplication and overlap of tasks with other agencies which should be avoided.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority (efsa). the role of efsa is indeed crucial, given the importance of food for european culture and economy. its work, in collaboration with national authorities, provides independent and highly useful scientific advice on food policies. we are therefore voting in favour of the proper and efficient management of the agency and i welcome the careful work of the auditors.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the discharge to the european food safety authority. the court's report shows that most of the internal control standards were met based on the authority's self-assessment carried out in 2012 and 2013. efsa provides expert advice to ensure the protection of the health of european consumers and the safety of food and the food chain. finally, improvements in the management of potential conflicts of interest should be emphasised.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report for the implementation of the european food safety authority (efsa) budget assesses the issues related to the performance, financial management and control of the eu agency. i have expressed my favourable opinion, in line with my political group, as i regarded the european food safety authority's (efsa) cost control and evaluation studies as positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ according to the court of auditors' report, the european food safety authority fulfilled its expenditure commitments for the financial year 2013, in line with the eligibility and transparency criteria. the report signed by mr czarnecki takes note of the court of auditors' report. that is why i thought it appropriate to support you favourably.
in writing. ‒ in view of the court's report on the annual accounts of the european food safety authority (efsa) for the financial year 2013, and the legality and regularity of the operations carried out by that authority, i have decided to support the request of the rapporteur, mr czarnecki, to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the final budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2013, as presented in its financial statements, which amounted to eur 78 051 000, representing a decrease of 0,31% compared with 2012, whereas the authority's entire budget derives from the union budget; having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2013, which stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the authority's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to efsa, the agency responsible for assessing risks to food and feed safety, providing independent scientific advice and communicating clearly on existing and emerging risks. as stated by the court of auditors, efsa has demonstrated a budgetary management free from irregularities. improvements will be needed in the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and transparency.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ i do not share the positions taken in the czarnecki report for eige for which i voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because eige implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors. in particular i was very pleased with the overall level of committed appropriations.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european institute for gender equality (eige) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting discharge to eige.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2013 as the court of auditors stated in its report on the annual accounts that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the institute's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i believe that the institute has a key role to play in promoting gender equality, combating discrimination based on sex, raising awareness of the issue among citizens of the union and fighting to ensure that effective equality between women and men is promoted and guaranteed in all spheres of public and private life. and from what the budget shows, i am convinced that these objectives have been pursued correctly.
in writing. ‒ the role of the institute in promoting gender equality is of fundamental importance to foster gender equality in both the public and private spheres. therefore, after careful consideration of the background documents, i have decided to express my vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge for the european institute for gender equality (eige) for data transparency issues, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement and payment procedures.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality (eige). in view of the institute's noble purpose, which is to combat discrimination on grounds of sex, i am voting in favour of the honourable member's statement, since the eige is an aid to the european institutions and the member states in integrating the principle of equality into their national policies. we are therefore voting in favour of the proper and efficient management of the institute, and i welcome the careful work of the auditors.
in writing. the court of auditors stated that it had not found any particular inconsistencies with regard to the general budget of the european institute for gender equality. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge in question.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality (eige) assesses the issues related to the performance, financial management and control of the eu agency. i voted in favour, in line with my political group, because i regarded the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the european institute for gender equality (eige) as positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater collaboration between this and the other agencies with the signing of memoranda of understanding allowing for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report signed by mr czarnecki, approving the budgetary activity of the european institute for gender equality for the year 2013 as, according to the court of auditors, the agency has correctly fulfilled its expenditure commitments for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ considering that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the institute's accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i have decided to support the request of the rapporteur, mr czarnecki, to grant discharge.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen,whereas, according to its financial statements, the final budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2013 was eur 10 024 535, representing an increase of 29.49% compared to 2012; notes that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the institute's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular; that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget to eige, an agency which is responsible for promoting gender equality and which is therefore at the forefront of the fight against sex discrimination. the institute plays a key role in this, since effective and genuine equality between women and men must be promoted and guaranteed in all spheres of public and private life, as the european parliament has stated.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ while balanced, i do not share some of the positions taken in the czarnecki report and therefore have opted not to support the discharge in favour of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because eiopa implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors. nevertheless i believe that something should be done about the level of carryovers, that at a staggering 85% of operational expenditure were very high.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting discharge to eiopa.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to the budget of this european authority, as the court of auditors' report has confirmed the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the operations concerned. despite the budgetary increases due to the it strategy and the multiannual implementation plan which have raised some concerns, i recognise the importance of eiopa in promoting a common supervisory regime, which is essential to ensure better integration and security in the insurance and pension sector in the eu, and its key role in contributing to economic recovery, job creation and growth in europe.
in writing. ‒ having carefully read the observations contained in the european parliament's motion for a resolution, i have decided to give my vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ vote against the discharge for the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) for data transparency issues, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement and payment procedures. in addition, there is duplication and overlap of tasks with other agencies which should be avoided.
in writing. i support the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa). the european parliament voted to confirm the supporting role of eiopa in the stability of the financial system. it has been working for years to ensure transparency in financial markets and products to better protect consumers and rebuild trust in the system. we are therefore voting in favour of the proper and efficient management of the agency and i welcome the careful work of the auditors.
in writing. following the measures taken by the management and the management of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge to the authority. the authority also adopted rules on the management of conflicts of interest, revising them in the light of the commission's guidelines on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest in decentralised eu agencies.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) assesses the performance, financial management and control issues of the eu agency. i voted in favour, in line with my group, because i considered the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) to be positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ the role of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) in promoting a common supervisory regime across the single market is essential to ensure better integration, efficiency and security in the insurance and pension sector in the eu, thereby contributing to economic recovery, job creation and growth, as well as to preventing future crises in the financial sector. whereas the european court of auditors has found that the operations of eiopa, on which the annual accounts for the year ended 31 december 2013 are based, are legal and regular in all material respects, for these reasons i am voting in favour of the rapporteur, mr czarnecki, in his report to grant discharge.
in writing. ‒ dear colleagues,whereas the european insurance and occupational pensions authority has strengthened its capacity to support procurement procedures at organisational level by clearly defining the roles and responsibilities of officials involved in procurement procedures and operational staff, and by providing specific procurement training for all categories of staff concerned; adopting rules on the management of conflicts of interest, revising them in the light of the commission's guidelines on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest in decentralised eu agencies; has updated its website to improve the transparency and accessibility of the information provided; that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget to eiopa, the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, which is responsible for overseeing the european insurance market. as noted by the european parliament, the role of the authority in promoting a common supervisory regime across the single market is essential to ensure better integration, efficiency and security in the insurance and pension sector in the eu, thereby contributing to economic recovery, job creation and growth in europe, as well as to preventing future financial crises.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ the report raises serious criticisms both of the transparency of the management of this agency and of the legitimacy of the eit's account management, which is why i did not grant the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed this resolution postponing the decision about granting discharge to the european institute of innovation and technology because i found worrying the fact that there are so many unclarified points regarding the budget implementation of the institute.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the discharge not to be granted, and i therefore voted in favour. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable. in the case of the eit, the court of auditors did not find a reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the grant operations of the institute.
in writing. ‒ considering that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts but failed to obtain sufficient evidence as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of postponing the discharge for the eit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, as i have read the statement of the court of auditors attesting to the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts and the related operations and the council's recommendation which expressed itself in the same direction. my favourable opinion is also based on the awareness of the important role played by this institution in the field of education, research and innovation with the aim of contributing to economic growth and competitiveness in europe by strengthening the innovation capacity of the european union and its member states.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, on the basis of the court of auditors' findings on the regularity of financial management.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of confirming the non-discharge for the european institute of innovation and technology (eit).
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit). i therefore agree with the favourable view expressed by my colleague, as the eit was set up to create the right conditions to foster the development of an entrepreneurial culture, promoting new study opportunities for our young people, and fostering a knowledge-based economy. the fact that its work is also accompanied by good management is certainly an encouragement to continue this mission, which is so important for european innovation.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) assesses the performance, financial management and control issues of the eu agency. i expressed my opinion in favour of postponing the discharge for the financial year 2013 of this agency, in line with my political group, as i considered that the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) were not yet exhaustive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr czarnecki, which proposes to postpone the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) for the financial year 2013. the report expresses deep concern that, for the second year in a row, the european court of auditors has found no assurance as to the legality and regularity of the eit's grant operations. 87 per cent of the grant expenditure declared by the institute was certified by independent audit firms commissioned by the beneficiaries themselves and their partners. the report therefore invites the eit to address the issue and report on it before 1 september 2015.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the final budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, as presented in its financial statements, which amounted to eur 142 197 740 for commitment appropriations, representing an increase of 47,05% compared with 2012, and eur 98 760 073 for payment appropriations, whereas, according to its financial statements, the overall contribution of the union to the agency's budget for 2013 amounted to eur 93 462 181, representing a decrease of 36,05% compared to 2012; notes that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts but that it had not been able to obtain sufficient evidence as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions; that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of deferring the discharge to the eit, the european institute of innovation and technology, a body dedicated to education (higher education), research and innovation. i voted against the discharge because, for the second year in a row, the court of auditors has not found a reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the grant operations of the institute; further noted that around 87% of the expenditure on grants declared by the beneficiaries was certified by independent audit firms commissioned by the beneficiaries and their partners; although the institute continued to work towards the effective implementation of ex ante audits and to better guide the independence of audit firms, the court found insufficient quality and found that there was room for further improvement in their overall work.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ i do not share the positions taken in the report under vote for which i did not support against the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because ema implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2013. having noted that the final annual accounts of the european medicines agency are as annexed to the court of auditors' report, i have approved the discharge to be given to the director of the european medicines agency on the basis of the following considerations: - on financial and budgetary management, i note that the budgetary control efforts undertaken during the financial year 2013 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 96,76% and that the payment appropriations execution rate was 83,49%; - on procurement and recruitment procedures, i have been informed by the agency that, following a call for tenders, 30 new contracts were awarded in 2013, each contract exceeding eur 25 000, compared to 43 in 2012 and 28 in 2011; - on internal audit i learn that in 2013 the commission's internal audit service (ias) carried out a consultancy and a follow-up activity in accordance with its strategic audit plan for the agency for 2012-2014 concerning the management and communication of the parties.
in writing. ‒ whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european medicines agency (ema) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting discharge to the ema.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to the budget of the european medicines agency, taking into account the court of auditors' report attesting to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the operations concerned, the council's recommendation to that effect and the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. i believe that the agency has done its job properly in coordinating the scientific resources made available by the national authorities to carry out the evaluation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use. i am also dealing with the regulation amending the instrument establishing this agency as a shadow rapporteur and i am noting how many delicate tasks it is carrying out properly.
in writing. ‒ welcoming the commitment of the european medicines agency to ensure greater transparency in its financial and budgetary management, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the ema's budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ vote against the granting of the discharge to the european medicines agency (ema) for data transparency issues, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement and payment procedures. in addition, there is duplication and overlap of tasks with other agencies which should be avoided.
in writing. ‒ i approved the discharge and all the comments contained therein, but i would like to stress that there is a need for greater coordination at european level on this issue, especially as regards the fragmentation between individual member states of different cost-benefit assessments of medicines, in particular those linked to the fight against cancer.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency (ema). its main task is to protect public and animal health: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. we are therefore voting in favour of the proper and efficient management of the agency and i welcome the careful work of the auditors.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the discharge for the european medicines agency, which you acknowledge is of crucial importance for the protection of human health and medical prevention and for scientific research. it is acknowledged that the court of auditors' annual audit did not reveal any particular findings as regards the level of carry-overs in 2013 and in general for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency (ema) assesses the issues related to the performance, financial management and control of the eu agency. i voted in favour, in line with my political group, because i regarded the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the european medicines agency (ema) as positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ considering that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual budget of the european medicines agency (ema) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i have decided to support the request of the rapporteur, mr czarnecki, to grant discharge.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, notes that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular; i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ following a positive assessment by the committee on budgetary control, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget of the ema, the european medicines agency. the agency plays an important role in protecting and promoting public and animal health through the evaluation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use. for this reason and because the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of the discharge.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ i do not share the positions taken in the czarnecki report on the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, and therefore i did not intend to grant discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because emcdda implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors and achieved very remarkable results in the implementation rate.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting discharge to the emcdda.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, because the court of auditors' report has confirmed its reliability, as has the council's recommendation, the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. i also believe that the observatory has done its job well in providing the eu and the member states with a realistic view of the drug problems in europe.
in writing. ‒ having examined the court of auditors' observations on the regularity of the financial position of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, i have voted in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the emcdda's budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the granting of discharge to the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) for data transparency issues, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement and payment procedures.
in writing. ‒ no particular problems have been identified for the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. the weaknesses are particularly evident in financial planning. there is a possibility of conflicts of interest and shortcomings in the management of tenders and contracts. in addition, there is the usual lack of transparency and rigour in recruitment and carry-overs that are not backed by commitments or are too high. however, the proliferation of certain items of expenditure does not always seem to be supported by concrete needs and there are duplications and overlaps of tasks which should be avoided. although the report provides a good analysis with a sound critical apparatus, and although it supports the reports annexed to it, i do not think it is appropriate to grant discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, sharing the approval of the observatory's budget, as well as the concerns expressed about the management of contracts and the problems related to empty offices. the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction is a key tool for obtaining data that will enable us to implement ever more effective drug control policies.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda). i agree with my colleague in voting in favour, because for more than 20 years the emcdda has been the reference point in europe for drug addiction problems, providing member states with a solid evidence base to support the debate and legislative action on drugs.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are today exercising the democratic control that we have as the european parliament by approving the discharge procedure. i thought it appropriate to vote in favour of the discharge for the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. it is also noted that the centre has revised its policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest in line with the commission's guidelines.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) assesses the performance, financial management and control issues of the eu agency. i voted in favour, in line with my group, because i regarded the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) as positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ the report signed by mr czarnecki, which takes account of the court of auditors' assessments, underlines how the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction has fulfilled its financial commitments for 2013, in accordance with the criteria of legitimacy and relevance. i therefore thought it appropriate to support the document by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ in view of the court of auditors' report on the annual budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) for the financial year 2013, and the legality and regularity of the operations carried out by the emcdda, i have decided to support the request of the rapporteur, mr czarnecki, to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen,whereas, according to its financial statements, the final budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2013 was 16 308 171.83, representing a reduction of 0.05% compared with 2012; whereas the overall union contribution to the budget of the centre for 2013 amounted to eur 15 550 000, representing a decrease of 0,01% compared to 2012; notes that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the centre's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular; that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction provides the eu and its member states with a realistic view of the drug problems in europe and a solid evidence base to support the drug debate. the emcdda provides policy makers with the data they need to develop drug laws and strategies, and drug professionals and operators with a tool to identify best practice and new areas for research. in view of the importance of its mission, i considered it appropriate to give my vote in favour of the discharge to the emcdda for the 2013 budget.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ the critical points in the czarnecki report led me to vote against the granting of discharge to emsa.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because emsa implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors and achieved very important results in the implementation rate.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european maritime safety agency (emsa) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting discharge to emsa.
in writing. ‒ i voted to grant discharge to the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2013, taking into account the court of auditors' report on the accounts, the council's recommendation and the report of the commission for transport and tourism. i voted in favour because i think it is important to support the role of the agency in ensuring a high, uniform and effective level of maritime safety, prevention of pollution from ships and response to such pollution in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the european maritime safety agency for the implementation of the 2013 budget, on the grounds of the reliability of the annual accounts examined by the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ no particular problems have been identified for the european maritime safety agency (emsa). the weaknesses are particularly evident in financial planning. there is a possibility of conflicts of interest and shortcomings in the management of tenders and contracts. in addition, there is the usual lack of transparency and rigour in recruitment and carry-overs that are not backed by commitments or are too high. however, the proliferation of certain items of expenditure does not always seem to be supported by concrete needs and there are duplications and overlaps of tasks which should be avoided. although the report provides a good analysis with a sound critical apparatus, and although it supports the reports annexed to it, i do not think it is appropriate to grant discharge.
in writing. i vote in favour of the report by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency (emsa). it ensures a high level of maritime safety and prevention of pollution caused by ships in the european union. the vote thus confirms the important role played by emsa in working with the member states to organise training on maritime safety and to monitor shipping and maritime traffic. we are therefore voting in favour of the proper and efficient management of the agency and i welcome the careful work of the auditors.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since the court of auditors has stated that it has found no particular inconsistencies in the general budget of the european maritime safety agency, i have voted in favour of granting the discharge in question. it should also be acknowledged that the agency has taken steps to avoid potential conflicts of interest by introducing training on ethics and integrity which is provided internally and is mandatory for all staff.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency (emsa) assesses the issues related to the performance, financial management and control of the eu agency. i voted in favour, in line with my group, because i regarded the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the european maritime safety agency (emsa) as positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ i have supported this report, which is based on the court of auditors' evaluation of the implementation of the budget for the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2013, because i find the opinion of the court of auditors, which has judged the financial conduct of this agency in entirely positive terms, to be absolutely reliable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives discharge to the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2013. the report also highlights the essential role of the agency as the guarantor of maritime safety in europe, whose competences have been strengthened following the adoption of the new basic regulation in february 2013; stresses in this regard the need to provide the agency with the financial, material and human resources it needs to carry out its tasks successfully.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen,whereas, according to the financial statements, the final budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2013 is eur 57 819 864, representing an increase of 4.88% compared to 2012; whereas the union's contribution to the budget of the agency for the financial year 2013 was eur 53 789 658, representing an increase of 2,65% compared to 2012, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2013, which it has found to be reliable and to state that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ as the committee on transport and tourism has pointed out, the european maritime safety agency, whose powers have been strengthened following the adoption of the new basic regulation in february 2013, plays a key role as a guarantor of maritime safety in europe. in view of its important role and taking into account the fact that the court of auditors did not comment on the agency's financial management in 2013, i have chosen to vote in favour of the discharge for the agency's 2013 budget.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ the european union agency for network and information security continues to maintain two sites, resulting in an unjustified increase in expenditure, which, together with the lack of regularity in the budget, led me to decide not to vote in favour of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because enisa implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european network and information security agency (enisa) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting discharge to enisa.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to the budget of the european network and information security agency, taking into account the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the union agency, the council's recommendation and the commission's report on budgetary control. in addition to the audit, i decided to express my approval because i believe that the agency has fulfilled its mission, which is to improve the security of the european union's computer and telecommunications networks.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the role of the european network and information security agency in preventing and tackling network and information security problems is of particular importance. therefore, in the light of the agency's budgetary control efforts for the financial year 2013, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of emsa's budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge for the european union agency for network and information security (enisa) for problems of data transparency, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement and payment procedures.
in writing. ‒ the european network and information security agency (enisa) is not facing any particular problems. the weaknesses are particularly evident in financial planning. there is a possibility of conflicts of interest and shortcomings in the management of tenders and contracts. in addition, there is the usual lack of transparency and rigour in recruitment and carry-overs that are not backed by commitments or are too high. however, the proliferation of certain items of expenditure does not always seem to be supported by concrete needs and there are duplications and overlaps of tasks which should be avoided. although the report provides a good analysis with a sound critical apparatus, and although it supports the reports annexed to it, i do not think it is appropriate to grant discharge.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the report by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and information security (enisa). the vote confirms the valuable role of enisa in ensuring a high level of network and information security in the union by constantly providing technical advice to national authorities and facilitating contacts between the union institutions and businesses. we are therefore voting in favour of the proper and efficient management of the agency and i welcome the careful work of the auditors.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, following the measures taken by the management and the management of the european network and information security agency, i have decided to grant discharge to the agency in recognition of its key role in safeguarding information security. the analyses show that the budgetary control efforts undertaken during the financial year 2013 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 94,41%.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european network and information security agency (enisa) assesses the issues related to the performance, financial management and control of the eu agency. i voted in favour, in line with my group, because i regarded the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the european network and information security agency (enisa) as positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ considering that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual budget of the european network and information security agency (enisa) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i have decided to support the request of the rapporteur, mr czarnecki, to grant discharge.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the final budget of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2013, which according to its financial statements was eur 9 670 185, representing an increase of 18,53% compared to 2012, whereas the union contribution to the agency's budget for 2013 amounted to eur 9 030 000, representing an increase of 10,69% compared to 2012; whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2013, has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular; whereas the agency's main task is to enhance the union's capacity to prevent and respond to network and information security problems on the basis of efforts made at national and union level; that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ as the european parliament has pointed out, the agency's task has become increasingly important. the agency is responsible for ensuring a high level of network and information security, and in a world where computers, smartphones and the internet are fundamental to modern life and the economy, we understand the importance of network security and the interaction between the various devices. in view of the importance of this agency, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge for enisa's 2013 budget, also taking into account the positive assessment of the committee on budgetary control.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ although the report analysing the european railway agency is partly agreeable, i believe that the agency has not yet adopted a sufficiently clear overall policy on the prevention and management of potential conflicts of interest, and for these reasons i have decided not to support the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because era implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors and achieved a good result in the implementation rate.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ considering that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european railway agency (era) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting discharge to the era.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the budget of the european railway agency, taking account of the court of auditors' report, the council's recommendation and the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism, but also because i believe it is important to enable this body to carry out its very important functions. the agency's task is to progressively approximate technical rules on railways and to establish common safety methods and objectives for the whole european railway system.
in writing. ‒ on the basis of the observations made in the european parliament's motion for a resolution, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge for the european railway agency (era) because of problems of data transparency, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement and payment procedures. in addition, there is duplication and overlap of tasks with other agencies which should be avoided.
in writing. ‒ no particular problems are reported for the european railway agency (era). the weaknesses are particularly evident in financial planning. there is a possibility of conflicts of interest and shortcomings in the management of tenders and contracts. in addition, there is the usual lack of transparency and rigour in recruitment and carry-overs that are not backed by commitments or are too high. however, the proliferation of certain items of expenditure does not always seem to be supported by concrete needs and there are duplications and overlaps of tasks which should be avoided. although the report provides a good analysis with a sound critical apparatus, and although it supports the reports annexed to it, i do not think it is appropriate to grant discharge.
in writing. i vote in favour of the report by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency (era). the european railway agency is a driving force in the policy of modernising the european railway sector. there are incompatible national safety rules within the 28 member states, and i therefore vote in favour, in agreement with my colleague, because the agency has the task of progressively approximating these technical rules and of establishing common safety methods and objectives for the whole european railway system. we are therefore voting in favour of the proper and efficient management of the agency and i welcome the careful work of the auditors.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr czarnecki's report, in favour of granting discharge to the european railway agency, recognising its crucial role in helping to ensure the free movement of persons, which is a founding pillar of the european union itself. we call on the agency to adopt a clear and objective overall policy for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest, in line with the recommendations of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency (era) assesses the performance, financial management and control issues of the eu agency. i voted in favour, in line with my group, because i regarded the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the european railway agency (era) as positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report in question, which concerns, in particular, the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency (era). in general, however, i believe that, in accordance with the principle of budgetary annuality, the era should pay greater attention to the principle of sound financial management, i.e. in accordance with the principles of economy, effectiveness and efficiency, in the use of the appropriations at its disposal to carry out the tasks entrusted to it. i regret that the agency uses two locations (lille and valenciennes) for the performance of its functions, which exposes it to additional costs. i therefore ask that a single seat be established in order to save resources.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the final budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2013, as presented in its financial statements, which amounted to eur 25 858 799, representing an increase of 0,23% compared to 2012, notes that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 were prepared by the court of auditors on the basis of the annual accounts of the european railway agency for the financial year 2013, which were drawn up in accordance with the financial regulation; that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am a strong supporter of the important role that the european railway agency plays in ensuring the safety and interoperability of the european rail system, and under the fourth railway package the era may have an extension of its tasks which i hope will not increase its expenditure excessively. i am in favour of landfilling but i am pushing for the era to have a single site in order to save resources and increase efficiency.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge to the european railway agency (era) for the 2013 budget. my vote takes account of the role played by the agency in ensuring the safety and interoperability of the european rail system, as emphasised by the committee on transport and tourism, and the positive assessment made by the committee on budgetary control, which found no irregularities in the financial management of the agency.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ i do not share the positions taken in the czarnecki report on the european securities and markets authority, for which i voted against the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because esma implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable. the current funding arrangements of the authority are not flexible, generate unnecessary administrative burdens and are liable to undermine its independence.
in writing. ‒ whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european securities and markets authority (esma) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting discharge to esma.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the budget of the european securities and markets authority, taking into account the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council's recommendation, the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i also believe that this body has diligently carried out its task of monitoring the european financial market and guaranteeing its stability.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge for the european maritime safety agency (emsa) because of problems of data transparency, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement and payment procedures. in addition, there is duplication and overlap of tasks with other agencies which should be avoided.
in writing. i vote in favour of the report by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority (esma). the vote in favour of this report confirms the role of esma, which is to help safeguard the stability of the financial system in the european union by ensuring the efficient and orderly functioning of securities markets and by contributing to the development of a single set of rules in europe: it is a very important function in order to restore conditions of efficiency and fairness to the european economy.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of approving the discharge for the european securities and markets authority, but stressed the need for the authority to cooperate with the commission in order to review its current funding structure.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority (esma) assesses the issues related to the performance, financial management and control of the eu agency. i expressed my favourable opinion, in line with my political group, as i considered the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the european securities and markets authority (esma) to be positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ in view of the court of auditors' report on the annual budget of the european securities and markets authority (esma) for the financial year 2013, and the legality and regularity of the operations carried out by that office, i have decided to support the request of the rapporteur, mr czarnecki, to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the final budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2013, as presented in its financial statements, which amounted to eur 28 188 749, representing an increase of 39,01% compared to 2012, due to the additional tasks assigned to the authority, notes that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the authority's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular; that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge to esma, the european securities and markets authority, for the financial year 2013, following a positive assessment by the court of auditors, which stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the authority's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. moreover, the role of the agency is particularly important, as it is concerned with promoting a common supervisory regime throughout the single market - essential to ensure better integration, efficiency and security of the union's financial markets - thereby contributing to economic recovery, job creation and growth in europe, as well as to the prevention of future crises in the financial sector. that is why i voted for the discharge.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ i do not share the positions taken in the czarnecki report, for which i voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because cdt implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors. moreover i am very pleased that the foundation was able to find an agreement with the authorities of my region of origin, piedmont, italy.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ considering that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european training foundation (etf) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting discharge to the eft.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the budget of the european training foundation, taking into account the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council's recommendation, the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. i also believe that the foundation has done its job well, which is to work within the framework of the european union's external relations policy to assist third countries in developing their human capital by ensuring lifelong learning and the development of skills and competences.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the financial statements presented by the european training foundation, i have decided to express my vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the eft's budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge for the european training foundation (etf). not only are there duplications and overlaps of tasks with other agencies, which should be avoided, but there are critical issues relating to data transparency, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement procedures and payment procedures.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the report on the discharge for implementation of the budget of the european training foundation (etf). this is a very broad activity, which also extends to the countries of the western balkans, central asia and the mediterranean partner countries. i agree with my colleague mr czarnecki that the european training foundation (etf) aims to contribute to the development of vocational training systems by strengthening cooperation in the field of vocational training: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since the court of auditors has stated that it has found no inconsistency with the budget of the european training foundation, i have voted in favour of granting discharge to the european training foundation (etf). the court's report does not comment on commitments and carry-overs for the financial year 2013 and acknowledges its good budget planning of the foundation itself.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation (etf) assesses the issues related to the performance, financial management and control of the eu agency. i voted in favour, in line with my group, because i regarded the monitoring and evaluation studies on the costs of the european training foundation (etf) as positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of authorising the 2013 discharge for the general budget of the european training foundation (etf) because it has managed the funds in a high and in line with the forecasts made earlier. the foundation has made a major contribution to improving human capital development in partner countries. i congratulate the foundation on its 99% completion rate of the objectives contained in its four work programmes. finally, i express my sincere appreciation for the progress made in developing a reform of vocational education and training based on empirical evidence through the turin process and other types of specific policy analysis, which have been taken up by partner countries, leading to national policy developments that help to ensure future sustainability.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the final budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2013, as presented in its financial statements, which amounted to eur 20 143 500, representing a decrease of 0.01% compared to 2012, that the entire budgetary envelope of the foundation is derived from the union budget; notes that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european training foundation for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the foundation's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular; i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european training foundation (etf) is a constant contributor to the improvement of human capital development in the eu's partner countries. a careful study by the committee in charge has revealed not only a regular allocation of the financial resources allocated to the foundation, but also important results achieved in 2013 in the context of the medium-term outlook 2010-2013 of the foundation, which reflect the successful implementation of the four-year plan. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the discharge to the fifg for the 2013 budget.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ although balanced, there are points which i do not share and some of the court of auditors' points which, although marginal, cannot be ignored; i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because eu-lisa implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors. also, i agree with the resolution when it demands for more centralization of the agency's activities.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (eu-lisa) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting discharge to eu-lisa.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge to the budget of the european agency, taking into account the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council's recommendation, the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. i believe that the agency has performed its functions correctly in the operational management of large-scale it systems in its area of competence.
in writing. ‒ having noted the legality and regularity of the financial and budgetary management of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2013, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the granting of discharge to the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (eu-lisa). not only are there duplications and overlaps of tasks with other agencies, which should be avoided, but there are critical issues relating to data transparency, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement procedures and payment procedures.
in writing. ‒ no particular problems are reported for the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (eu-lisa). the weaknesses are particularly evident in financial planning. there is a possibility of conflicts of interest and shortcomings in the management of tenders and contracts. in addition, there is the usual lack of transparency and rigour in recruitment and carry-overs that are not backed by commitments or are too high. however, the proliferation of certain items of expenditure does not always seem to be supported by concrete needs and there are duplications and overlaps of tasks which should be avoided. although the report provides a good analysis with a sound critical apparatus, and although it supports the reports annexed to it, i do not think it is appropriate to grant discharge.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (eu-lisa). the agency's core task is to keep the it systems under its responsibility running without interruption, thus ensuring the continuous exchange of data between national authorities. the vote also highlights its important responsibility for the adoption of security measures, such as the training of experts for the it systems it manages. we are therefore voting in favour of the proper and efficient management of the agency and i welcome the careful work of the auditors.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, following the measures taken by the management and the management of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (eu-lisa), i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge. it is noted that, since the agency's budget was implemented by the commission, the court was not able to carry out a more detailed analysis by budget heading.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (eu-lisa) assesses the issues related to the performance, financial management and control of the eu agency. i expressed my favourable opinion, in line with my political group, as i considered the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (eu-lisa) to be positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors has found that the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice has made a correct use of its 2013 budget, in accordance with the criteria of transparency and appropriateness of expenditure. for this reason i have decided to vote in favour of the czarnecki report, which approves the budget of this community agency for the year 2013.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (eu-lisa) for the financial year 2013, and the legality and regularity of the operations carried out by that office, i have decided to support the request of the rapporteur, mr czarnecki, to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. however, in general, i believe that, in accordance with the principle of budgetary annuality, eu-lisa should pay greater attention to the principle of sound financial management, i.e. economy, efficiency and effectiveness, in the use of the appropriations at its disposal to carry out the tasks entrusted to it.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on budgetary control (a7-0210/2014), that the entire budget of the agency is derived from the union budget; notes that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular; whereas the agency's core function is to ensure the tasks relating to the operational management of the second generation schengen information system (sis ii), the visa information system (vis) and eurodac; i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors has also delivered a favourable opinion on the annual accounts for the financial year 2013 of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems (eu-lisa). that is why i am giving a positive opinion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (eu-lisa). the court of auditors' examination of the annual accounts of the agency, which was established in 2012, has revealed no irregularities.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ the report provides critical insights which led me to vote against the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because eu-osha implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors and achieved very good results both in the implementation rate and the payment appropriation execution rate.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european agency for safety and health at work (eu-osha) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting discharge to eu-osha.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work, taking into account the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council's recommendation, the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. i believe that the agency has created the conditions necessary to carry out its task, which is to develop a culture of risk prevention aimed at improving working conditions in europe.
in writing. ‒ following a thorough analysis of the observations made in the european parliament's motion for a resolution, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the granting of discharge to the european agency for safety and health at work (eu-osha). not only are there duplications and overlaps of tasks with other agencies, which should be avoided, but there are critical issues relating to data transparency, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement procedures and payment procedures.
in writing. ‒ no particular problems are reported for the european agency for safety and health at work (eu-osha). the weaknesses are particularly evident in financial planning. there is a possibility of conflicts of interest and shortcomings in the management of tenders and contracts. in addition, there is the usual lack of transparency and rigour in recruitment and carry-overs that are not backed by commitments or are too high. however, the proliferation of certain items of expenditure does not always seem to be supported by concrete needs and there are duplications and overlaps of tasks which should be avoided. although the report provides a good analysis with a sound critical apparatus, and although it supports the reports annexed to it, i do not think it is appropriate to grant discharge.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work (eu-osha). i note, as my colleague has pointed out, that the agency carries out awareness-raising and information activities on the importance of the health and safety of workers, as well as identifying and assessing new and emerging risks at work, and i therefore vote in favour of the declaration in question.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have decided to vote in favour of mr czarnecki's report, also in the light of the significant improvements in the implementation of the annual work programme, in the compilation of the budget by activity in 2013 and in matters relating to recruitment and remuneration.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work (eu-osha) assesses the issues related to the performance, financial management and control of the eu agency. i expressed my favourable opinion, in line with my political group, as i considered the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the european agency for safety and health at work (eu-osha) to be positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ the european agency for safety and health at work has been assessed by the court of auditors as having fulfilled its expenditure commitments for the financial year 2013 in a satisfactory manner. on the basis of this assumption, i have decided to vote in favour of this document, which approves the financial activity carried out by this community agency during the year 2013.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual budget of the european agency for safety and health at work (eu-osha) for the financial year 2013, and the legality and regularity of the operations carried out by that office, i have decided to support the request of the rapporteur, mr czarnecki, to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. in general, 2013 was the final year of the eu-osha strategy 2009-2013; the agency has achieved considerable achievements, in particular in promoting online interactive tools for small and medium-sized enterprises in the field of occupational health and safety management. i welcomed the corrective actions completed in relation to the court's observations made in the past years, in particular the significant improvements in the implementation of the annual work programme, the activity-based budget enumeration in 2013 and the recruitment and remuneration issues. finally, i welcome the agency's permanent move to the new premises on 1 january 2014, following the agreement with the spanish authorities, which resulted in a significant reduction in rental costs.
in writing. ‒ dear colleagues,whereas, according to its financial statements, the final budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2013 amounted to eur 17 682 338, representing an increase of 4,50% compared to 2012, whereas the union's contribution to the agency's budget for 2013 amounted to eur 15 614 775, representing a decrease of 3,77% compared to 2012; notes that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular; that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ eu-osha's objective is to make europe a safer, healthier and more productive workplace. given its important role and ongoing commitment to improving working conditions in europe, and taking into account the observations of the european parliament, which emphasised the achievements of the agency in the period 2009-2013, such as the promotion of online interactive tools for small and medium-sized enterprises in the field of occupational health and safety management, i have decided to give my vote in favour of the discharge to eu-osha for the 2013 budget.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ the czarnecki report offers a critical and partly agreeable view of the situation of the euratom supply agency, but it still contains passages which i consider unclear, such as the lack of details on the costs of administrative services, which is why i did not support the discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution because i find that the euratom supply agency implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors and accomplished a very good result in the commitment appropriation rate.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal for a decision on the closure of the accounts of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the european atomic energy agency (euratom) for the financial year 2013, which stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting discharge to euratom.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge to the budget of the euratom supply agency, taking account of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council's recommendation and the report of the committee on budgetary control. i also believe that the agency has created the conditions necessary to fulfil its role of ensuring regular and fair access to minerals, raw materials and special fissile materials within the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2013, in view of the reliability and transparency of the financial and budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the granting of discharge to the euratom supply agency (euratom). not only are there duplications and overlaps of tasks with other agencies, which should be avoided, but there are critical issues relating to data transparency, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement procedures and payment procedures.
in writing. ‒ no particular problems have been reported for the euratom supply agency (euratom). the weaknesses are particularly evident in financial planning. there is a possibility of conflicts of interest and shortcomings in the management of tenders and contracts. in addition, there is the usual lack of transparency and rigour in recruitment and carry-overs that are not backed by commitments or are too high. however, the proliferation of certain items of expenditure does not always seem to be supported by concrete needs and there are duplications and overlaps of tasks which should be avoided. although the report provides a good analysis with a sound critical apparatus, and although it supports the reports annexed to it, i do not think it is appropriate to grant discharge.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the report by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency (euratom). euratom operates in areas related to atomic energy such as research, the development of safety standards and, in particular, the peaceful use of nuclear energy, ensuring in a transparent manner the regular and fair supply of minerals within the european union. we are therefore voting in favour of the proper and efficient management of the agency and i welcome the careful work of the auditors.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge for the euratom supply agency. the agency's intention to submit a more detailed report to the discharge authority on its needs directly covered by the commission is noted.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency (euratom) assesses the issues related to the performance, financial management and control of the eu agency. i voted in favour, in line with my group, because i regarded the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the euratom supply agency (euratom) as positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ in view of the court of auditors' report on the annual budget of the euratom supply agency (euratom) for the financial year 2013, and the legality and regularity of the operations carried out by that office, i have decided to support the request of the rapporteur, mr czarnecki, to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the final budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2013, as presented in its financial statements, which was eur 104 000, the same as for the financial year 2012, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2013, which states that the court of auditors has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ following a positive assessment by the committee on budgetary control and the importance of the euratom supply agency, which aims to ensure the regular and fair supply of minerals, raw materials and special fissile materials within the european union, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of that agency for the financial year 2013.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ the report provides excellent critical insights which led me to vote against the granting of discharge to eurojust.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because eurofound implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors and accomplished a most remarkable result in the implementation rate.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ i did not vote for the discharge to signal that i do not believe that the foundation's work, although very important, is actually in line with real needs. the risk is that there is a waste of funds.
in writing. ‒ whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting discharge to eurofound.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to the budget of the european foundation, taking into account the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council's recommendation, the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. i think it is right that the foundation should contribute to the granting and achievement of better living and working conditions through action aimed at developing and disseminating the knowledge which can facilitate such improvement.
in writing. ‒ recognising the important contribution that eurofound makes through the exchange of information in support of community policies aimed at improving living and working conditions, i have decided to express my vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the 2013 financial year.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the granting of discharge to the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound) for problems of data transparency, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement and payment procedures. in addition, there is duplication and overlap of tasks with other agencies which should be avoided.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 discharge of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions as it has shown the reliability of the accounts and the legitimacy and regularity of the budget.
in writing. i vote in favour of the report by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound). i note that the purpose of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions is to contribute to the planning and implementation of better living and working conditions in europe by assessing and analysing living and working conditions. we are therefore voting in favour of the proper and efficient management of the foundation and i welcome the careful work of the auditors.
in writing. the court of auditors stated that it had not found any particular inconsistencies with regard to the general budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions. in the light of the foundation's increased contributions to policy development, the increased use of its expertise in key strategic documents of the union and the growing recognition of the scientific value of the foundation's research, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound) assesses the issues related to the performance, financial management and control of the eu agency. i voted in favour, in line with my group, because i regarded as positive the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound). in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater collaboration between this and the other agencies with the signing of memoranda of understanding allowing for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ as reported by the court of auditors, the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions fulfilled its expenditure commitments for the year 2013, in accordance with the eligibility and transparency criteria. i therefore offered my support to the report signed by mr czarnecki, which attests to the reliability of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound) for the financial year 2013, and the legality and regularity of the operations carried out by that office, i have decided to support the request of the rapporteur, mr czarnecki, to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the final budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2013, as presented in its financial statements, which amounted to eur 20 624 300, representing an increase of 3,76% compared to 2012, whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2013, has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the foundation's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular; i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ following a positive assessment by the committee on budgetary control and the observations of the european parliament, which highlighted the importance of the work carried out by eurofound, especially in providing high-quality, timely and relevant knowledge in support of policy-making, which has been used for example by the international labour organisation, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge for the financial year 2013.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ the report provides excellent critical insights which led me to vote against the granting of discharge to eurojust.
in writing. ‒ i chose to endorse this resolution because all the data show that eurojust implemented its budget in accordance to the principles that inform this matter. in particular, i was pleased by the high level of committed appropriations obtained by the unit.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ i did not vote for the report because i think more savings could have been made. we will try to ensure that in future the waste is reduced in an incremental way.
in writing. ‒ whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the eu judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting discharge to eurojust.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to eurojust's budget, as i consider the work of this body to be of fundamental importance, as it was set up with the aim of strengthening the fight against serious forms of organised crime and improving the coordination of crossborder criminal investigations and prosecutions between member states, as well as between member states and third countries. my decision also takes account of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council's recommendation, the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
in writing. ‒ as is well known, the european union judicial cooperation unit plays a key role in promoting and improving coordination between national authorities in order to combat serious forms of organised and crossborder crime. therefore, welcoming the conclusions of the court of auditors, i have decided to vote in favour of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of eurojust for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge for the european union's judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) because of overlap and duplication with other agencies.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the report by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union judicial cooperation unit (eurojust). this report clearly sets out the profile of eurojust, which works by promoting the coordination of investigations and judicial proceedings between eu member states in their action against serious forms of organised and crossborder crime, facilitating the provision of international judicial assistance and the execution of european arrest warrants.
in writing. the court of auditors has stated that it has not found any particular inconsistency with the general budget and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the discharge to the european union judicial cooperation unit. it stimulates coordination between the competent national authorities of the member states and facilitates the provision of international judicial assistance. it is generally agreed that eurojust should pay greater attention to the principle of sound financial management, with particular reference to the principle of annuality of the budget.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european union judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) assesses the issues related to the performance, financial management and control of the eu agency. i voted in favour, in line with my group, because i regarded the monitoring and evaluation studies on the costs of the european union judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) as positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ as reported by the court of auditors, the european police office (europol) has fulfilled its expenditure commitments for the year 2013 correctly. i therefore offered my support to the report signed by mr czarnecki, which approves the budget of this agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ considering that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual budget of the european union judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i have decided to support the request of the rapporteur, mr czarnecki, to grant discharge.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the final budget of eurojust for the financial year 2013, as presented in its financial statements, which amounted to eur 33 828 256, whereas the union's contribution to eurojust's budget for 2013 amounted to eur 32 358 660, representing a decrease of 1,85% compared to 2012; notes that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that eurojust's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular; whereas eurojust was established with the aim of strengthening the fight against serious forms of organised crime and improving the coordination of cross-border criminal investigations and prosecutions between member states, as well as between member states and third countries; that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the financial position of the european union judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) is faithfully reflected in its annual accounts, following also the court of auditors' report which gives a positive opinion. although there is always room for improvement in budget planning and implementation, i believe that eurojust is on the right track as the reduction in the number of budget lines for the financial year 2014
in writing. ‒ since 2002, eurojust has promoted the coordination of investigations and prosecutions between the member states of the european union in their action against serious forms of organised and crossborder crime. in view of the importance of the work it carries out, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge to be given to this agency for the 2013 budget, although in future eurojust will have to pay greater attention to the principle of sound financial management in the use of the appropriations at its disposal to carry out the tasks entrusted to it, as noted by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ although the european police office report is overall balanced, there is constructive criticism of the way recruitment is managed and the internal management of contracts and data, which is why i did not support the granting of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because europol implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors. nevertheless i hope that the office will take the appropriate measures to reduce the future carry-overs.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ the european police office is not exploiting its potential and as a result the funds allocated to its operation are currently being wasted and there is a lack of full transparency on the use of resources.
in writing. ‒ considering that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european police office (europol) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting discharge to europol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to the budget of the european police office, taking into account the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council's recommendation, the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. my decision is also based on consideration of the role played by europol in supporting and strengthening the action of the competent authorities of the member states and their mutual cooperation in preventing and combating organised crime, terrorism and other serious forms of crime.
in writing. ‒ europol has demonstrated sound financial management and commitment to improving the use of appropriations, while ensuring the quality of its mission. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge for the european police office (europol) because of problems of overlap and duplication of tasks and actions with other agencies.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the report by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police office (europol). europol shall be responsible for the fight against serious crime and terrorism; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. the vote on this report by parliament confirms that europol is participating in the joint investigation teams, formed by the services of the various member states, and is providing the information they need on the spot.
in writing. following the measures taken by the management and the management of the european police office, i have decided to vote in favour of granting discharge to europol, aware of the leading role played by europol vis-à-vis the national police offices of the member states. it is recalled that in its 2011 annual report, the court noted that the office's financial regulation refers to detailed rules and procedures laid down in the detailed rules for its implementation, which have not yet been adopted. we therefore call on europol to do so.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european police office (europol) assesses the issues related to the performance, financial management and control of the eu agency. i voted in favour, in line with my group, because i regarded the monitoring and evaluation of the costs of the european police office (europol) as positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the final annual accounts of the european police office (europol) for the financial year 2013, and having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of that office, in which it stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the accounts, i have decided to give my support to mr czarnecki's report, which grants discharge. i welcomed the adoption by europol of a new code of conduct which highlights the prevention of conflicts of interest, a key element underlined by the european parliament in previous discharge procedures. in general, however, i believe that, in accordance with the principle of annuality of the budget, europol should pay greater attention to the principle of sound financial management, i.e. in accordance with the principles of economy, effectiveness and efficiency, in the use of the appropriations at its disposal to carry out the tasks entrusted to it.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the final budget of the european police office for the financial year 2013, which, according to its financial statements, amounted to eur 82 520 500, a reduction of 1,94% compared to 2012, notes that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european police office for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular; that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors' findings state that the european police office (europol) faithfully presents its position in the annual accounts and that all transactions underlying the annual accounts for the financial year 2013 are legitimate and regular. of course there are improvements to be made, such as the design, implementation and documentation of public procurement procedures which require clearer selection criteria. in any case, europol is making the necessary reforms, such as the new code of conduct which prevents conflicts of interest and which i consider to be a fundamental element. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ europol, the european police office, is responsible for supporting and strengthening the action of the competent authorities of the member states and their mutual cooperation in preventing and combating organised crime, terrorism and other serious forms of crime. given the importance of its task, i decided to vote in favour of the discharge to europol for the 2013 budget, even if in future this agency will have to pay more attention to the principle of sound financial management in the use of the appropriations at its disposal to carry out the tasks entrusted to it, as noted by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ since i do not share the positions taken in the text under vote, i did not intend to support the discharge granted to the eu agency for fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because fra implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors and showed a very remarkable implementation rate of 100%.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, the landfill procedures once again highlight the inefficiencies of the system, which result in a significant waste of resources. i did not want to vote against the discharge but there are still many areas for improvement.
in writing. ‒ whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the eu agency for fundamental rights (fra) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting discharge to the fra.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge for the agency's budget, taking into account the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council's recommendation, the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. i also believe that the agency has fulfilled its purpose, which is to provide the european institutions and the competent national authorities with assistance and advice on fundamental rights in the implementation of community law and to help them take appropriate measures or define appropriate initiatives.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the sound management of the financial appropriations, in line with the objectives set out in the agency's mandate in the field of fundamental rights in the areas of community competence, i voted in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the discharge for the european union fundamental rights agency (fra) as i do not see any particular or general problems for the other agencies.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra). as my colleague has pointed out, the fra has a delicate and collaborative role to play in relation to the european institutions. it aims to provide assistance and advice on fundamental rights to the offices of the european union and the member states. i believe that its mission should be strengthened and supported.
in writing. i have approved the discharge for the european union agency for fundamental rights. it is noted that the budgetary control efforts undertaken during the financial year 2013 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 100%. for these reasons i voted in favour of mr czarnecki's report.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) assesses the issues related to the performance, financial management and control of the eu agency. i voted in favour, in line with my political group, because i regarded the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) as positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report signed by mr czarnecki, approving the budgetary activity of the european agency for fundamental rights for the year 2013 as, according to the court of auditors, the agency has correctly fulfilled its expenditure commitments for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 discharge for the general budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) as, as reported in the report, the management of resources was overall positive. i also agree that, in accordance with the principle of annuality of the budget, fra should pay greater attention to the principle of sound financial management, i.e. in accordance with the principles of economy, effectiveness and efficiency, in the use of the appropriations at its disposal to carry out the tasks entrusted to it.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen,whereas, according to its financial statements, the final budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2013 was eur 21 348 510, representing an increase of 4,77% compared to 2012; having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the european union agency for fundamental rights, which it has examined and to the replies given by the european parliament and the council, i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors' findings are also favourable in the case of the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra), as the financial position is faithfully reported in all its relevant aspects and its operations are regular. there are committed appropriations carried over to 2014 with high amounts, but this is due to the multiannual nature of fra's operational projects. the agency has demonstrated good budgetary management and the level of appropriations carried over to 2014 is in line with the implementation of the fra's annual work programme.
in writing. ‒ since 2007, the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) has been providing the european institutions and the competent national authorities with assistance and advice on fundamental rights in the implementation of community law. in view of the importance of the work carried out and given that the agency has demonstrated excellent budgetary management for the year 2013, as shown by the data provided by the court of auditors, i have decided to give my vote in favour of the discharge to the fra for the 2013 budget.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ given that the court of auditors' report for two consecutive years has found no reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the agency's operations and that the agency has not yet adopted a clear and objective overall policy for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest, i did not intend to support the discharge of frontex by my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that frontex plays a central role in the framework of the eu system and therefore should be properly funded.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ the daily tragedy of migrants is in plain sight and i therefore believe that frontex has failed to fulfil its mission. i therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting the discharge to frontex.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge to the budget of the european agency, taking into account the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council's recommendation, the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. my vote also recognises the important role played by the agency in improving the integrated management of the external borders of the member states of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union is one of the most delicate aspects of the coordination of member states' initiatives. in this context, the role of frontex is of fundamental importance in addressing the new challenges in border control. therefore, in view of the correctness of frontex's financial position, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the granting of discharge to the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) as i believe that frontex has failed in its objectives, namely saving human lives and fighting illegal immigration, human trafficking, terrorist infiltration; and organised crime.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the report by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex). frontex was created to improve the integrated management of the external borders of the member states by revising the principle of operational cooperation between member states and developing a common and integrated risk assessment model: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the hope is that the work of the agency can be strengthened and indeed made common to all member countries.
in writing. we are now calling loudly for an increase in frontex resources. we call on member states that were previously excluded to commit and participate. we ask everyone to make an extra effort. frontex was created for the management of external borders and now this management is more complicated than ever and unfortunately, too often, has dramatic implications. frontex has proved inadequate, so now it must be able to adapt, to adapt to the new challenges that this management entails. the agency, through operations like triton, has to work harder, be more efficient. many of us would like him to be able to change his mandate, to make management not just about control but also about rescue. but at the same time, the use of these resources must be closely monitored. the agency cannot be overshadowed by conflicts of interest, false reporting or a lack of internal audit. we can't afford to waste or lose any resources. in this case, it's really a matter of life and death.
in writing. i have decided to support, by a favourable vote, the discharge for the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex). i am convinced that in this period of great emergency, frontex is playing a strategic and fundamental role in managing landings along the italian coast. in addition, as acknowledged by the court of auditors, it welcomes the introduction of a consolidated and more comprehensive system of ex ante controls, which has been introduced for grant agreements signed after june 2013.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) assesses the issues related to the performance, financial management and control of the eu agency. i voted in favour, in line with my group, because i considered the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) to be positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater collaboration between this and the other agencies with the signing of memoranda of understanding allowing for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors has assessed that the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union has correctly implemented its expenditure commitments for the financial year 2013. on the basis of this assumption, i have decided to vote in favour of this document, which approves the financial activity carried out by this community agency during the year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 discharge for the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) because, as stated in the report, the analysis of the accounts and transactions is overall positive, regular and legitimate. however, i agree with the report that because of some inconsistencies, opaque procedures and outstanding amounts in the budget, the agency should improve its financial management.
in writing. ‒ having regard to its financial statements, the final budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2013 was eur 93 950 000, representing an increase of 4,88% compared to 2012, whereas, according to its financial statements, the overall contribution of the union to the agency's budget for 2013 amounted to eur 85 500 000, representing an increase of 1,79% compared to 2012; notes that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts were reliable, but that it had not been able to obtain sufficient evidence of the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions; i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors' report on the financial position of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states (frontex) is positive and with legitimate and regular operations. for all that, i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to frontex, the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union, for the 2013 budget. the agency, established in 2004, has the important task of coordinating operational cooperation between member states in the field of external border management. although in this area compliance with multiannual budget planning is more difficult, due to the increased risk of unforeseen events, the agency will need to improve budgetary control, as reported by the committee on budgetary control.
in writing. i voted against the decision proposing to grant discharge to the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2013, as i consider that, in the light of the estimated deaths of more than 20 000 migrants in the mediterranean between 2000 and 2013, frontex has failed in its objectives of saving lives and combating illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, terrorist infiltration and organised crime. in addition, for two consecutive years the court has found no reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the agency's operations. for grant agreements signed before june 2013, the agency generally did not require documentation proving the rights of the cooperating countries and in the absence of sufficient and appropriate evidence on the effectiveness of the ex ante and ex post checks on grant transactions for 2013, the court found insufficient assurances as to the legality and regularity of the transactions in 2013 for joint land/sea/air border grant operations.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ given that the court of auditors' report for two consecutive years has found no reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the agency's operations and that the agency has not yet adopted a clear and objective overall policy for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest, i did not intend to support the discharge of frontex by my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because gnss implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors and showed a very remarkable implementation rate of 100%.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal for a decision on the closure of the accounts of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2013
in writing. ‒ considering that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european gnss agency (gnss) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting discharge for gnss.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the authority, taking into account the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council's recommendation and the report of the committee on budgetary control. whereas the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work;
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency, in the light of the legality of the financial operations and the soundness of the financial management for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the granting of discharge to the european gnss agency (gnss) not only are there duplications and overlaps of tasks with other agencies, which must be avoided, but there are critical issues relating to data transparency, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement procedures and payment procedures.
in writing. i vote in favour of the report by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency. the accreditation of the safety of the systems and the operation of the galileo safety centre are central priorities for european research, and the agency's contribution to the preparation of the systems for commercialisation should be noted and emphasised.
in writing. the court of auditors stated that it had not found any particular inconsistency with the general budget of the european global navigation satellite system agency. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency (gnss) assesses the issues related to the performance, financial management and control of the eu agency. i have expressed my favourable opinion, in line with my political group, as i regarded the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the european gnss agency (gnss) as positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu agencies must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budgets. in addition, given their interconnectedness, we expect ever greater cooperation between this and the other agencies through the signing of memoranda of understanding which will allow for better management of budgets and transparency criteria for expenditure.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the final annual accounts of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2013, and having regard to the court of auditors' report on the agency's annual accounts, in which it stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the accounts, i have decided to give my favourable support to mr czarnecki's report, which grants discharge.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the final budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2013, as presented in its financial statements, which amounted to eur 80 449 967, representing a decrease of 23,76% compared to 2012, whereas, according to its financial statements, the union contribution to the agency's budget for 2013 amounted to eur 13 973 518, representing an increase of 9,69% compared to 2012; notes that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular; i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ following a positive assessment by the committee on budgetary control and the relevance of the work carried out by the gnss, the agency set up to ensure the security accreditation of systems, to contribute to the preparation of the marketing of systems for their proper functioning, the uninterrupted provision of services and a high degree of market penetration, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of that agency for the financial year 2013.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ the report provides excellent critical points which convinced me to vote against the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i chose to vote in favour of this resolution because i believe that the fact that artemis didn't set up an internal audit capability as required by the ep, among other things, is justification enough not to grant discharge to the joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the discharge not to be granted, and i therefore voted in favour of not granting it. the cost of european bureaucracy is too high and hard to justify.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision not to grant discharge because the audit system is not effective and the management of the company is problematic in terms of conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts but failed to obtain sufficient evidence as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of postponing the discharge for the joint undertaking
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to the artemis joint undertaking, taking into account the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council's recommendation and the report of the committee on budgetary control. my vote also takes into account the company's work in developing key technologies for embedded information systems in various fields of application, in order to strengthen the union's competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the emergence of new markets and new social applications.
in writing. ‒ recognising the role of artemis in fostering public-private partnership on embedded it systems through cooperation between the various actors in the sector, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the granting of the discharge for the artemis joint undertaking, because of problems of data transparency, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement procedures and payment procedures.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the report by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking. in this declaration, parliament attests to the important objectives of the artemis joint undertaking, which relate to the implementation of a 'research programme' for the development of key technologies for embedded information systems, such as the car and mobile phones, which are an integral part of the lives of the citizens of the union.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking assesses the performance, financial management and control issues of the eu joint undertaking. i expressed my opinion in favour of postponing the discharge for the financial year 2013 of this agency, in line with my political group, as i considered that the monitoring and evaluation studies on the costs of the artemis joint undertaking were not yet exhaustive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu joint undertakings must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budget for better management of expenditure and transparency criteria.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr czarnecki, which proposes to postpone the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the measures taken by the goc to address the identified shortcomings. the report therefore invites artemis to address the issue and to report back in the coming months.
in writing. ‒ whereas the joint undertaking started to work autonomously in october 2009; whereas the maximum contribution from the union to the joint undertaking for the period of 10 years is eur 420 000 000, to be charged to the budget of the seventh framework programme for research; whereas the financial contributions from the artemis member states should be at least 1,8 times the union's financial contribution and the in-kind contributions from the research organisations participating in the projects for the duration of the joint undertaking should be equal to or higher than the contribution from public bodies; whereas the artemis and eniac joint undertakings were merged to create the joint technology initiative 'electronic components and systems for european leadership' which started its activities in june 2014 and will remain operational for 10 years; notes that the court of auditors' report on the financial year 2013 was drawn up in accordance with the principle of business continuity; i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of deferring the discharge for the 2013 budget to artemis, a company dealing with embedded it systems. i have decided to vote against the discharge because an examination by the court of auditors has shown that the ex post audit strategy is not sufficient.
written declarations of vote
in writing. the report on the clean sky joint undertaking is well thought out, although i do not entirely agree with some of its passages, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the clean sky joint undertaking implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. - i did not vote for the discharge because the management could have been more careful.
in writing. ‒ considering that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting the discharge to the joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge to the joint undertaking's budget, taking into account the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council's recommendation and the report of the committee on budgetary control. in voting in favour i took into account the work of clean sky in accelerating the development, validation and demonstration of green aviation technologies in the union to be spread as quickly as possible.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, in view of the legality of the financial and budgetary management as certified by the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge for the clean sky joint undertaking on the grounds of data transparency, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement and payment procedures.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking. i think it is important to recall the purpose of clean sky, which aims to create a public-private research partnership at european level in the field of aeronautics, and i would like to support its function in order to develop the technologies necessary for a clean, innovative and competitive air system.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge to the clean sky joint undertaking, a public private partnership between the european commission and the aviation industry, which aims to reduce the environmental impact of aviation. the implementation of the budget for the year 2013 did not raise any particular problems or concerns on the part of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the clean sky joint undertaking's budget assesses the performance, financial management and control issues of the eu joint undertaking. i expressed my opinion in favour of granting the discharge for the financial year 2013 of this joint undertaking, in line with my political group, as i considered the audit and evaluation investigations on the costs of the clean sky joint undertaking to be positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu joint undertakings must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budget for better management of expenditure and transparency criteria.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, and the legality and regularity of the operations carried out by the joint undertaking, i have decided to support the request of the rapporteur, mr czarnecki, to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ whereas the clean sky joint undertaking was set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of accelerating the development, validation and demonstration of green aviation technologies in the union to be deployed as quickly as possible; whereas the joint undertaking started to operate autonomously on 16 november 2009; whereas the maximum contribution from the union to the joint undertaking for the period of 10 years is eur 800 000 000; whereas since the start of its activities, the joint undertaking has involved over 600 participants in its programme and then benefited from new partnerships and the participation of new organisations; whereas small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) have participated extensively in the programme and have been allocated around 40% of the budget for calls for proposals; i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ despite some criticism, i voted in favour of the discharge for the management of the clean sky joint undertaking, an initiative which aims to create a european-wide public-private research partnership in the field of aeronautics in order to develop the technologies needed for a clean, innovative and competitive air system.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ it is precisely because the czarnecki report highlights the lack of legitimacy and regularity in the budget of the eniac joint undertaking that i have decided to support the non-discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the decision on granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 since the qualified opinion of the court of auditors seriously put into question the willingness of the of the joint undertaking to be effective and efficient.
in writing. ‒ the measure calls for the discharge not to be granted, and i therefore voted in favour. the eniac is not an efficient body.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the decision not to grant discharge because of unclear aspects in the financial management of the company and a very critical assessment of the audit system.
in writing. ‒ considering that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts but failed to obtain sufficient evidence as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of postponing the discharge for the joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge to the joint undertaking's budget, taking into account the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council's recommendation and the report of the committee on budgetary control. in my favourable opinion, i considered the work of the eniac joint undertaking in defining and implementing a 'research agenda' for the development of key competences for nanoelectricity.
in writing. ‒ under the seventh framework programme, the work of the eniac, which aims to promote and strengthen public-private partnerships in nanotechnology, has proved particularly relevant in encouraging investment in the sector and supporting competitiveness and innovation. therefore, having read the comments submitted, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge for the eniac joint undertaking on the grounds of data transparency, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement and payment procedures.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the report by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking. the eniac joint undertaking develops important information and communication technologies, and i would particularly like to emphasize the valuable contribution to innovation of its studies on nanoelectronics.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking assesses the performance, financial management and control issues of the eu joint undertaking. i expressed my opinion in favour of postponing the discharge for the financial year 2013 of this agency, in line with my political group, as i considered that the monitoring and evaluation studies on the costs of the eniac joint undertaking were not yet complete. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu joint undertakings must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budget for better management of expenditure and transparency criteria.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr czarnecki, which proposes to postpone the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. for the third year in a row, eniac has been subject to a qualified assessment by the court of the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the annual accounts due to its inability to assess whether the ex post audit strategy, which relies heavily on the national funding authorities (nfas) to audit project declarations of expenditure, provides sufficient assurance as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. eniac is therefore urged to explain to the discharge authority its strategy to rapidly correct the current practices.
in writing. ‒ whereas the eniac joint undertaking was set up on 20 december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of defining and implementing a 'research agenda' for the development of core competences for nanoelectronics in various application areas; whereas the joint undertaking was granted financial autonomy in july 2012; whereas the founding members of the joint undertaking are the european union, represented by the commission, belgium, germany, estonia, ireland, greece, spain, france, italy, the netherlands, poland, portugal, sweden, the united kingdom and the aeneas association for european nanoelectronics activities; whereas the maximum contribution from the union to the joint undertaking for the period of 10 years is eur 450 million from the budget of the seventh framework programme for research; whereas the maximum contribution of aeneas to the joint undertaking is eur 30 million for running costs and the member states contribute in kind to the operational costs and a financial contribution of at least 1,8 times the union contribution; i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone the discharge to eniac for the 2013 budget. for the third year in a row, the joint undertaking was the subject of a qualified opinion by the court on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the annual accounts due to the inability to assess whether the ex post audit strategy was adequate.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ although balanced, i do not share the positions taken in the report analysing the landfill for the fuel and hydrogen cells joint undertaking, and therefore voted against the granting of the landfill.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the fch joint undertaking implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so i voted against. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the decision to grant discharge because the management of the company and the procurement does not appear as transparent as it should be.
in writing. ‒ considering that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking (fch) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting the discharge to the undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge to the joint undertaking's budget, taking into account the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council's recommendation and the report of the committee on budgetary control. consideration should also be given to the company's track record in developing commercial applications and thereby facilitating further efforts by companies to rapidly introduce fuel cell and hydrogen technologies.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013. the joint undertaking, through the proper management of its funding, has ensured the improvement of the system for monitoring the research results of its projects and has contributed to the implementation of the seventh framework programme on energy.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge for the fuel and hydrogen cells joint undertaking for data transparency issues, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement and payment procedures.
in writing. i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the fuel and hydrogen cells joint undertaking (fch). with this vote, parliament endorses fch's ambitious project to put europe at the world's forefront of fuel cell and hydrogen technologies and help commercial market forces deliver the substantial public benefits that are potentially available.
in writing. the court of auditors has stated that it has not found any particular inconsistency with regard to the general budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking, and i have therefore voted in favour of the proposal to grant discharge to it. i would also stress the invitation to the joint undertaking to report to the discharge authority on the socioeconomic benefits of the projects already completed.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking assesses the performance, financial management and control issues of the eu joint undertaking. i expressed my opinion in favour of granting the discharge for the financial year 2013 of this joint undertaking, in line with my political group, as i considered the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking to be positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu joint undertakings must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budget for better management of expenditure and transparency criteria.
in writing. ‒ in view of the court of auditors' report on the annual budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, and the legality and regularity of the operations carried out by the joint undertaking, i have decided to support the request of the rapporteur, mr czarnecki, to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for the work he has done and hope that i have made a contribution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget of the fuel and hydrogen cells enterprise, a european-wide public-private partnership on key technologies, to enable europe to meet its 2020 energy and climate targets.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ it is precisely because the report highlights the irregularity in the budget of the innovative medicines initiative joint undertaking that i have voted in favour of the proposal to postpone the discharge decision.
in writing. ‒ i chose to endorse this resolution because i believe that the qualified opinion issued by the court of auditors concerning the regularity and the legality of the transactions underlying the accounts of the imi joint undertaking is reason enough not to grant discharge.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge because the company has problems with the legality of financial transactions.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the innovative medicines joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, which stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting discharge to the joint undertaking for the financial year 2013,
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge to the joint undertaking's budget, taking into account the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council's recommendation and the report of the committee on budgetary control. in expressing my vote, i took into account the company's work to significantly increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the drug development process, with the long-term aim of ensuring that the pharmaceutical industry produces more effective and safer innovative medicines.
in writing. ‒ following an analysis of the observations made by the court of auditors and the effectiveness and efficiency of the joint undertaking's mandate in ensuring that the pharmaceutical sector produces safe innovative medicines, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the granting of the discharge to the innovative medicines initiative joint undertaking for data transparency issues, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement procedures and payment procedures.
in writing. i vote in favour of the report by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines. this company is implementing the joint technology initiative (jti) on innovative medicines with the aim of developing a competitive pharmaceutical industry based on innovation. i too support the view, as the honourable member has already pointed out, that the process of developing medicines should be encouraged so that more effective and safer innovative medicines can be produced.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the innovative medicines joint undertaking assesses the performance, financial management and control issues of the eu joint undertaking. i expressed my opinion in favour of granting the discharge for the financial year 2013 to this joint undertaking, in line with my political group, as i considered the monitoring and evaluation studies on the costs of the innovative medicines joint undertaking to be positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu joint undertakings must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budget for better management of expenditure and transparency criteria.
in writing. ‒ in view of the court of auditors' report on the annual budget of the innovative medicines company for the financial year 2013 and the legality and regularity of the operations carried out by that company, i have decided to vote against the request of the rapporteur, mr czarnecki, not to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines was established in december 2007 for a period of 10 years in order to significantly increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the drug development process, with the long-term objective of ensuring that the pharmaceutical industry produces more effective and safer innovative medicines. the european union, represented by the commission, and the european federation of pharmaceutical industries and associations (efpia) are founding members of the joint undertaking and the joint undertaking started to operate autonomously on 16 november 2009. the maximum union contribution to the joint undertaking for the decade concerned shall be eur 1 billion from the budget of the seventh framework programme for research, and the founding members shall contribute equally to the running costs, each amounting to no more than 4% of the total eu contribution, and to research activities through contributions in kind at least equivalent to the union financial contribution. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ despite some criticism, i voted in favour of the discharge to the imi joint undertaking for innovative medicines for the 2013 budget.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ i supported the vistisen report which does not grant discharge to the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy, as the court of auditors' inquiry shows a significant risk of increased appropriations and expenditure to support projects currently scheduled and which will not be able to meet the expected timetable.
in writing. ‒ i voted yes to this resolution because the huge increase of the costs of the project are in contradiction with the "value for money" principle and, therefore, i agree with not granting discharge for the 2013 budget to the joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ the measure seeks the non-discharge, i voted in favour. the costs of european bureaucracy are excessively high and hard to justify.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision, which calls for the granting of discharge to be postponed so that further action can be taken.
in writing. ‒ considering that the court has stated that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013 and the related transactions reflect the financial position, but that there are nonetheless negative elements in its statement of assurance, i have voted in favour of postponing the discharge for the undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge, taking into account the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council's recommendation and the report of the committee on budgetary control. i believe that the joint undertaking has fulfilled its objectives, which are to promote scientific research and technological development in the field of fusion.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013, on the grounds of the correct use of the financial resources.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the granting of discharge to the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for problems of data transparency, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement procedures and payment procedures.
in writing. i vote in favour of the report by mr anders primdahl vistisen, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy. fusion energy is, along with renewable energy and fission energy, one of the three alternatives to fossil fuels. parliament stated that the joint undertaking in question was to promote scientific research and technological development in the field of fusion by coordinating the important activities relating thereto.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the iter joint undertaking assesses the performance, financial management and control issues of the eu joint undertaking. i expressed my opinion in favour of granting the discharge for the financial year 2013 of this joint undertaking, in line with my political group, as i considered the monitoring and evaluation surveys on the costs of the iter joint undertaking to be positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu joint undertakings must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budget for better management of expenditure and transparency criteria.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors' report on the implementation of the 2013 budget by the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy did not highlight any particular inconsistencies in the management of community funding by the joint undertaking. on the basis of that reply, i thought it appropriate to express my support for this document, which approves the budgetary activity carried out by this community agency during the year 2013.
in writing. ‒ in view of the court of auditors' report on the annual budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013, and the legality and regularity of the operations carried out by that joint undertaking, i have decided to vote against the request of the rapporteur, mr czarnecki, not to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ whereas the members of the joint undertaking are euratom, represented by the commission, the member states of euratom and the other countries which have concluded cooperation agreements with euratom in the field of controlled nuclear fusion, whereas the joint undertaking started to work autonomously in march 2008 and whereas on 9 october 2008 the court of auditors (hereinafter 'the court') delivered opinion no 4/2008 on the joint undertaking's financial regulation, i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for iter's 2013 budget, even though iter presented irregularities such as delays, cost overruns and other issues concerning procurement.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ i do not share the views expressed in the vistisen report on the sesar joint undertaking, and therefore voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because sesar joint undertaking implemented its budget for the financial year 2013 without major errors and showed a very remarkable implementation rate of 99.6%.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the granting of discharge, so my vote was in favour of the motion. the costs of european bureaucracy are too high and unjustifiable.
in writing. ‒ i did not vote in favour of the discharge because there are elements of lack of transparency in the financial management.
in writing. ‒ considering that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting the joint undertaking discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the sesar joint undertaking, taking into account the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts, the council's recommendation and the commission's report. i believe that the company has fulfilled its objectives, which are based on air traffic management in the single european sky and the attempt to modernise air traffic management in europe.
in writing. ‒ on the basis of the observations contained in the european parliament's motion for a resolution, i have decided to give my vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ voting against the granting of discharge to the sesar joint undertaking for data transparency issues, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement and payment procedures
in writing. i vote in favour of the report by mr anders primdahl vistisen, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking. this vote certifies that this regulation constitutes a joint venture to modernise the european air traffic management system. the aim is to bring together community research and development efforts under the sesar project.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge for the sesar joint undertaking, which brings together some 3,000 experts in europe, developing technologies and procedures for a new generation of atm systems that can improve performance. the court's report shows, among other things, that the joint undertaking disseminated the results of the research by making detailed information on the products supplied and the related processes available to interested parties on its extranet.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking assesses the performance, financial management and control issues of the eu joint undertaking. i expressed my opinion in favour of granting the discharge for the financial year 2013 of this joint undertaking, in line with my political group, as i considered the audit and evaluation studies on the costs of the sesar joint undertaking to be positive. in particular, it should be stressed that all eu joint undertakings must respect the principle of annuality as the deadline for the presentation of their budget for better management of expenditure and transparency criteria.
in writing. ‒ on the basis of the court of auditors' report, the use of the funding made available to the sesar joint undertaking for the year 2013 has met the criteria of transparency and appropriateness of expenditure. for this reason, i have considered it appropriate to express my support for this document, which approves the budgetary activity carried out by the commission in 2013.
in writing. ‒ in view of the court of auditors' report on the annual budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, and the legality and regularity of the operations carried out by the joint undertaking, i have decided to support the request of the rapporteur, mr czarnecki, to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. the company has played a key role in coordinating and implementing the research of the sesar project, which is a pillar of the single european sky.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur for his work and hope that i have made a contribution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget of sesar, the joint undertaking responsible for modernising the european air traffic management system.
oral explanations of vote
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ i do not share the views expressed in the gill report on the single monetary funds, and i believe that the text as it is structured does not provide sufficient guarantees and protection for the market and investors in these financial instruments, so i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i chose to endorse this resolution because the new rules on money market funds are expressly designed to avoid contagion of the short term funding market, thus ensuring greater stability in the eu´s financial market.
in writing. - i voted against the measure. fcms with constant net asset value represent a potential risk as they are unconnected to the market and its fluctuations. this would be essentially a shadow banking activity which, especially for italian local authorities in need of liquidity, could represent an excessive risk.
in writing. ‒ common monetary funds (cfm) are an important source of short-term funding for financial institutions, corporations and public administrations, with some eur 1 trillion in assets under management. the aim of this regulation is to ensure greater investor protection, liquidity of the fund to meet investor redemption requests and to make the structure of the fund sufficiently secure to cope with possible adverse market conditions. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation which has the shared objective of creating a legal framework for the common monetary fund, in order to ensure greater protection for investors, while at the same time strengthening financial stability by preventing contagion risks. i also think that the further objective of the proposal is very important, namely to ensure that the liquidity of the funds is adequate to meet the demands of investors for redemption and to make the structure of the funds sufficiently secure to cope with possible adverse market conditions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulation on the single monetary funds (smfs) to provide short-term financing to financial institutions, companies or public administrations with the ultimate aim of supporting the european economy as a whole. they are both a means of risk-sharing for the beneficiaries and short-term cash management tools on the demand side. fcms are used by a wide range of entities, including charities, building societies, local authorities and large professional investors such as corporations and pension funds wishing to invest excess liquidity for a short period: they therefore represent a key link between the demand for and supply of money in the short term. in a situation of economic and financial crisis, i share the need to regulate fcms and establish common rules of operation in order to safeguard the integrity and stability of the internal market and to honour investor redemption requests, especially in situations of stressed markets.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i do not support the management of the single monetary funds (smfs), which can contribute to generating and amplifying systemic risk and instability in the financial and macroeconomic system.
in writing. - i will vote against the motion. the common monetary fund regulation touches on technical and sensitive aspects of finance. many experts believe that there is a risk that emfs with constant net asset value represent a potential risk, since they are detached from the market and its fluctuations. this would be essentially shadow banking, which we do not need, and the limits on how these funds can access derivative financial instruments are not sufficient.
in writing. ‒ the emfs are an indispensable financing instrument, worth around eur 1 trillion and accounting for around 15% of eu funds. the economic crisis has brought to light extreme fragility and several systemic flaws that required more detailed regulation. i voted in favour of measures to ensure that these instruments are more stable and reliable.
in writing. mrs gill has submitted a report which i wholeheartedly support, since i consider it a priority to continue the work begun by the committee on economic and monetary affairs to update and improve the community rules on financial law. the single monetary funds (smfs) provide short-term financing to financial institutions, companies or public administrations, and thus contribute to the financing of the european economy as a whole. more regulation, as proposed in this report, is an additional precaution for households and consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's position on the european common fund (ecf) because i believe that it is of fundamental importance to regulate a sector of industry representing a trillion euros, to stem the risks inherent in the shadow banking system, and to ensure financial stability. on the other hand, to enable the mmfs to play a leading role in the market for short-term securitisations relevant to the real economy and to commercial credit intermediation, and thus to address the interconnection of the mmfs with the banks promoting them. the ep's position aims to ensure that they are better able to withstand the volatility of securities and stock indices and the urge to bail out in stressed market situations. similar to bank deposits, fcms commit to their participants to provide immediate liquidity on demand, thus potentially making the distinction with banks less clear. finally, i believe that it is very important to require fcms to hold daily and weekly capital reserves among their portfolio assets in order to increase the transparency of the shadow banking system so that risks can be monitored effectively and immediate action can be taken where necessary. i hope that the negotiations with the council will be concluded swiftly and successfully.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the proposal by mrs neena gill. it aims to create a legal framework for the single monetary funds in order to ensure greater protection for investors, while at the same time strengthening financial stability by preventing contagion risks. the report also aims to make the structure of the funds sufficiently secure to cope with possible adversity.
in writing. ‒ money market funds are a short-term liquidity management tool that offers a high degree of liquidity, diversification and currency stability with a market return. i voted in favour of the proposal because it aims to create a regulatory framework for money market funds in order to ensure greater investor protection for mmfs and to improve financial stability. it shall also ensure that the liquidity of the fund is adequate to meet the demands of investors for repayment and to make the structure of the funds as secure as possible to withstand adverse market conditions. the proposal is in line with the commission's green paper (march 2012) on shadow banking.
in writing. ‒ for the single monetary funds to be able to fulfil their purpose effectively, it is necessary that the integrity and stability of the internal market be safeguarded by the implementation of uniform rules throughout the union. i have therefore decided to support the gill report, which aims to promote the establishment of a legal framework to ensure the proper management of the common monetary funds.
in writing. ‒ we believe it is important to regulate the monetary funds in europe, which are used by a significant proportion of industries, local authorities, charities and foundations as a tool to manage their excess liquidity. they provide an important source of short-term finance: in europe, about 22% of short-term debt securities issued by governments or the business sector are held by monetary funds. due to their systemic interconnection with the banking sector, they have often been identified as sensitive and highly risky instruments. this is a very controversial matter, but we believe that the time has come to give a uniform regulation to the sector.
in writing. ‒ mutual funds (mfis) are short-term cash management instruments characterised by high liquidity, diversification, value stability and market-based return. fcms are mainly used by companies wishing to invest excess liquidity for a short period, for example the time until a major expense such as payroll. these cash management instruments provide short-term financing to financial institutions, companies or public administrations on the one hand, and, by financing these entities, contribute to the financing of the european economy on the other. i voted in favour of the report by mrs neena gill on the referral of the draft legislation back to committee. i believe that it is important and necessary to establish a system of rules to protect investors and to strengthen financial stability by preventing the risk of contagion. i therefore believe that the sensitive points of the project need to be improved.
in writing. ‒ the emfs are of fundamental importance for the financing of the european economy because they provide short-term finance to financial institutions and companies. it is of paramount importance that they are regulated in a clear and comprehensible way because it has happened in the past, as in the case of the recent financial crisis, that they have shown some vulnerabilities, which can create further imbalances in the financial system. i therefore think it is right that there should be precise rules on fcms, to safeguard the stability of the eu's internal market and to ensure that all commitments are honoured even in difficult market situations.
in writing. ‒ after several months of negotiations, the european parliament finally voted in favour of a proposal, negotiated with the other political groups, which provides for the creation of a legal framework for the single monetary funds to ensure greater protection for investors, including from the risks of contagion, and to improve financial stability.
in writing. i decided to vote against because the common monetary funds with constant net asset value represent a potential risk, since they are unconnected with the market and its fluctuations. this would be essentially a shadow banking activity which, especially for italian local authorities in need of liquidity, could represent (as has already happened) an excessive risk.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the common monetary funds (cfm). i believe it is of great importance, in order to safeguard the position of investors, to clearly regulate the financial instruments in which the mmfs are allowed to invest, to provide for liquidity requirements to meet any redemption requests, to provide investors with transparent information on portfolio management and to provide for the implementation of stress tests to cope with different market scenarios. i hope that these measures will serve to increase the confidence of the citizens in the financial system.
in writing. on 29 april, the european parliament voted by a large majority to approve a measure which, instead of strictly regulating the 'shadow banking system', ends up introducing only marginal requirements which are too lenient in relation to the risk that 'shadow banks' pose to financial markets. again, another victory for the financial lobby. the rule specifically concerns cnavs, i.e. investment funds with constant net worth that contribute to generating and amplifying systemic risk and instability in the financial system. in order to mitigate systemic risk, we at m5s have called for the conversion of all cnavs into vnav funds and the elimination of instruments such as securitisations and unregulated derivatives. none of our amendments were incorporated in the text, which has actually deteriorated during the negotiations. even before the vote in plenary we tried to improve the text by asking for it. but it was useless. the text, which was blocked, was passed with the approval of all parties. the european union is a major player in the world economy, with a large number of its citizens living in poverty. the 'shadow banks' will therefore be able to continue to operate unhindered, with the same risks to market stability as before the crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this measure which is supposed to regulate the so-called shadow banking system and in particular the common monetary funds (cmfs) because i believe that its text contains many non-shared elements. first of all, i would have liked to see securitisations and otc derivatives removed from the list of assets in which a mmf can invest. in addition, debt instruments guaranteed by the state authorities should not have been included among the eligible assets. i also believe that internal rating procedures are superfluous, as they are not transparent and therefore unreliable. this report ensures that cnavs remain free to operate in the eu while continuing to speculate on sovereign debt and small investors; i do not think it is appropriate to open up markets which are prone to speculation and the inherent instability of these short-term funds.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ the report is balanced and acceptable, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report since a recast of regulation (ec) 517/94 on the import of textiles products from certain third countries not covered by specific import rules will correct some technical inaccuracies and will facilitate the access of these products on the european market, thus improving trade.
in writing. ‒ the textile sector is important for the european economic system. i therefore welcome the ongoing process of codification and recasting which, following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, aims to make clear and simple rules available to the operators concerned.
in writing. - i voted yes. the purpose of the measure is to adapt the text to certain legislative changes brought about by the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other provisions, or by any other specific union import rules. during the examination of the proposal by parliament and the council, it became apparent that some technical corrections to the commission proposal were needed. the rapporteur therefore puts forward a number of amendments to clarify the proposal and to ensure greater legal certainty and consistency. in view of all this, and on the basis of the favourable opinion of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, i shall vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal lays down quantitative limits and safeguards and surveillance instruments applicable to imports of textile products from third countries not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols and other tariff preference schemes provided for by the union (i.e. belarus and north korea). the regulation also provides for the possibility of imposing control and surveillance measures if textile imports originating in the two countries threaten to cause significant damage to european production.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal concerns the codification of a regulation of march 1994 on common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other provisions or by any other specific community import rules. those amendments are of a technical nature and are introduced following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, for the aspects related to comitology (delegated and implementing acts). i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i attach great importance to simplifying and clarifying the wording of eu legislation so that it is more understandable and accessible to citizens. this objective cannot be achieved as long as the innumerable provisions, which have been amended several times and often substantially, remain scattered, forcing those wishing to consult them to look for them both in the original act and in the amending acts. it is therefore essential to codify provisions which have been frequently amended if the legislation is to be clear and transparent. this regulation, concerning imports of textile products from certain third countries, was already subject to an alignment exercise following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon in order to ensure that all the amendments made to the text were brought together in a single act. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution because the new regulation replaces the various regulations it incorporates, preserves the substance of the acts being codified in full and therefore merely brings them together by making only the formal changes necessary for the purpose of the codification work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the codification and recasting of the regulation on the common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries, which is not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other provisions or by any other specific community import rules; currently only belarus and north korea fall within that description. in particular, the regulation sets annual quantitative limits on imports of a number of textile products from these two countries and allows the introduction of union surveillance and safeguard measures. in addition, the regulation allows for the imposition of surveillance measures on other third countries where imports of textile products originating in those countries cause or threaten to cause serious injury to union production of like or directly competing products. as textiles are a sensitive sector of the european union's economy, i believe it is important that the rules applicable to them are as clear and simple as possible in order to ensure legal certainty. this operation is also in line with other actions to ensure that decision-making procedures in the area of trade policy are in line with the new regime of delegated and implementing acts introduced by the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation on imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other provisions or by any other specific union import regime. this technical proposal aims to codify, together with the regulation on common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries which are covered by union rules, two existing regulations on common rules for safeguard and surveillance measures which have been substantially amended over the years by adding certain technical corrections. the only countries from which the european union imports textiles and with which it has not concluded bilateral agreements, protocols or other specific provisions are belarus and north korea. the regulation lays down annual quantitative limits for imports of certain textile products from these two countries and allows for the establishment and implementation of european safeguard and surveillance measures where imports of textile products from third countries cause or threaten to cause serious damage to european production.
in writing. ‒ we have always defended the textile sector, which has been brought to its knees by the eu. i shall vote in favour of this measure, however, because it is only a technical adaptation of the treaty of lisbon and applies only to belarus and north korea, two countries which clearly do not represent any problem for our textile sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft resolution on the common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries, which are not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other provisions, nor by any other specific union import rules, as they contain no problematic provisions but only technical corrections, which are part of a positive overhaul and rationalisation of the existing legislation.
in writing. i support and support, in the context of a review of a number of regulations in the trade sector including omnibus i and omnibus ii, the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries not previously covered by bilateral agreements or protocols, such as belarus and north korea, so that there are adequate safeguards and greater clarity in trade in the textile sector, which is particularly sensitive for europe.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have given my support to mr walesa's report. the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, an alignment exercise was needed to ensure an ad hoc decision-making process.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to repeal the regulation on common rules for imports of certain textile products originating in third countries. the regulation applies to imports of textile products originating in third countries with which the european community has concluded bilateral agreements, signed protocols or concluded other arrangements and provides, as an import regime, for a double-checking system for the management of quantitative limits, for products subject to surveillance, a control system for products subject to simple surveillance and an ex post surveillance.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this proposal for a regulation on the common rules applicable to imports of textile products from certain third countries, which are not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other provisions or by any other specific union import rules. this measure, together with the common rules for imports from certain third countries, is a technical proposal designed to codify two existing regulations on safeguard and surveillance measures, which have been substantially amended several times. the main change in this revision concerns the annex, which deletes from the list those countries which have now become members of the world trade organisation: armenia, russia, tajikistan and vietnam. the only countries from which the eu currently imports textiles with which there are no bilateral agreements, protocols or other provisions and which are not subject to any other specific eu import regime are belarus and north korea, and we therefore reiterate our request to the commission to re-submit the proposal to this parliament if it intends to substantially amend it or replace it with a new text.
in writing. the european union attaches great importance to simplifying and clarifying community legislation so that it is more understandable and accessible to citizens. this objective cannot be achieved as long as the innumerable provisions, which have been amended several times and often substantially, remain scattered, forcing those wishing to consult them to look for them both in the original act and in the amending acts. the purpose of this proposal is therefore to initiate the codification of a regulation on imports of textile products following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the new treaty involved an alignment exercise to ensure that the previous comitology and ad hoc decision-making procedures in the area of trade policy were transformed into delegated and implementing acts, through the omnibus i (for implementing acts) and omnibus ii (delegated acts) directives. in view of the foregoing considerations and as this is a technical report which does not introduce any new content but is merely a recasting operation, i have decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ textiles are a sector of great value to the eu and it is therefore important that the applicable rules are clear and simple for the operators concerned and that they ensure the full application of the law. in the light of the favourable opinion of the legal affairs committee on the commission proposal, only technical corrections were made to ensure even greater legal certainty and consistency and to protect the interests of eu citizens. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to codify the existing regulation on textile imports, as amended several times, following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, for the aspects related to comitology.
in writing. i decided to vote in favour because this regulation applies only to belarus and north korea, two realities which clearly do not represent any problem for the italian textile sector.
oral explanations of vote
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ i believe that more effective and targeted choices could have been made in terms of reducing the european parliament's operating costs for the 2016 financial year, which is why i did not support the deprez report with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree with its findings and with its conclusions. i think that the estimates of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2016 are in line with the way the ep implemented its resources until now.
in writing. - my vote was negative. much more can and must be done to curb parliament's expenditure.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the estimated state of the european parliament's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2016, which is the first full budgetary procedure to take place in the new legislature and the third procedure of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. i decided to vote in favour of this report because, while stressing the importance of parliamentary committees to scrutinise the executive, particularly with regard to delegated acts, it has highlighted that parliament should demonstrate a sense of responsibility through a budget which complies with the principles of budgetary discipline and sound financial management. i believe that these arguments are all the more valid in the present context, in which member states are faced with a heavy burden of public debt and budgetary consolidation. i cannot agree with the need to pursue structural and organisational reforms to improve the efficiency, environmental sustainability and effectiveness of parliament. in particular, the change from three seats (brussels, strasbourg, luxembourg) to one seat would ensure significant savings while avoiding the unnecessary pollution resulting from the movement of parliamentary activity from brussels to strasbourg once a month.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the estimated state of the european parliament's budget because despite the forecast of an increase, it is around 1.6% compared to the 2015 budget, and is mainly due to the rate of increase in current expenditure. in addition, an additional €15 million is planned for the implementation of cyber security and that of parliament's buildings. this is a considerable number, but it will be important in 2016 to give priority to strengthening the legislative activity of the parliament and this also passes through the safety of the people who work in it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the approval of the statement of estimates of revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2016. i believe that it will take due account of the 2016 guidelines proposed by the secretary-general, which aim to strengthen the ability of parliamentary committees to scrutinise the executive, to increase the security of parliament's buildings and cyber security, and to increase the resources available to members to support their parliamentary work. i regard the planned cuts in expenditure as a proof of parliament's responsibility in the face of the difficult socioeconomic situation. in view of the call for budgetary consolidation addressed to the member states, which are burdened by the burden of public debt, parliament's attention to a reduction in expenditure seems consistent and appropriate. at the same time, i appreciate the attention paid to ensuring that sufficient resources are allocated to enable parliament to exercise all its powers and to ensure the proper functioning of its parts. finally, i share the need to strengthen the security of the buildings where parliament's activities are carried out, of the members and of the computer systems used, in view of the threats that are daily sent to the institutional bodies.
in writing. ‒ i believe that there should be no increase in expenditure in the european parliament's budget. if some budget lines need to be increased, funds should be sought in other expenditure lines where it is possible to cut waste. it is not acceptable that there should be an increase in funding for political parties or political foundations. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because much more can and must be done to curb parliament's expenditure.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my vote on the estimated revenue and expenditure for 2016, which is the first step in establishing the european parliament's budget for the year in question, was in favour. the compromise was reached after two meetings between parliament's bureau and the committee on budgets. it provides for an increase of 1.6% over the 2015 budget and additional spending on security in brussels. these are small increases, mainly due to the need to improve the organisation of security measures in response to the threats received from isis, in order to ensure the safety of members, staff and all citizens visiting our institution.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report on the estimated state of the european parliament's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2016. the guidelines focus on strengthening the ability of parliamentary committees to scrutinise the executive, in particular with regard to delegated acts, investments in the security of parliament's buildings and cybersecurity, and support for members, in particular with regard to parliamentary assistance. it is clear that, in view of the present economic situation, special attention must be paid to the expenditure to be covered and the budgets allocated. in the context of the heavy public debt and the need for budgetary consolidation faced by the member states, a widespread sense of responsibility and rigour is needed.
in writing. ‒ the deprez report on the estimated state of the european parliament's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2016 sets out the priorities for the community's expenditure for the coming year. following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which gave the european parliament the role of co-legislator, it is absolutely essential to focus on the legislative and supervisory activities of members. the document lays a proper emphasis on this assumption, while at the same time proposing broadly agreeable priorities. for these reasons i have decided to support it by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ we do not think it is right to increase certain expenditure items such as funding for european political parties and foundations, the sums available to them are substantial and there is no need for an increase, especially when the funds could be used differently.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of this report will enable us to support all the administrative and financial needs for the smooth functioning of the european parliament in 2016. our group has decided not to table any further amendments in plenary in order not to jeopardize the final work, which was the result of long and difficult negotiations between the committee on budgets and the bureau of parliament, as expressly provided for in the conciliation procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr deprez on the state of play of the expenditure forecast for the financial year 2016. the 'forecast' is the first report on the european parliament's budget for the year. it sets the figures following an internal procedure in the european parliament by the bureau and the committee on budgets. those figures will be integrated into the commission's proposal for the 2016 draft budget. after a pre-conciliation meeting and two rounds of conciliation meetings, the bureau of the ep and the committee on budgets reached a compromise which provides for an increase of 1.6% over the 2015 budget and, in addition, eur 15 million for security in brussels.
in writing. ‒ whereas, in the context of the heavy public debt burden and budgetary consolidation faced by the member states, parliament should exercise a sense of responsibility and budgetary rigour, while ensuring that sufficient resources are allocated to enable it to exercise all its powers and to function properly; however, given the need to take into account certain investments to strengthen parliament's institutional role, despite the limited room for manoeuvre and the need to offset savings made in other areas, and given that the ceiling for heading 5 of the multiannual financial framework (mff) for 2016 is set at eur 9 483 million in current prices, i voted in favour for these reasons.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that, despite the fact that parliament has had to bear additional costs since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, such as the creation of the directorate-general for parliamentary research services, it has been able to offset these costs with the savings resulting from structural and organisational reforms. i believe that parliament must set a good example in implementing a policy of budgetary restraint and in respecting the principles of budgetary discipline and sound financial management. as regards the multiannual projects, i believe that parliament should look in depth at the implementation of these projects, discuss its priorities and make an assessment of these multiannual projects for the next reading of parliament in the autumn.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the statement of estimates of revenue and expenditure for the 2016 financial year of the ep. the forecast is the first step in the ep's budget approval process; these forecasts will then be integrated into the draft budget for 2016 proposed by the commission. the draft budget provides for an increase of 1,6% compared to the 2015 budget and an additional expenditure of eur 15 million for security in brussels; the compromise was reached after two conciliation meetings between the ep bureau and the committee on budgets and was approved by my group, the epp, as well as the s&d, alde and the greens. as my group, the epp, has argued, the number of supplementary parliamentary questions, which is a very costly and not always useful tool in the legislative process, should be reduced.
in writing. i voted against because i think that much more can be done to curb parliament's expenditure.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i am voting in favour of the working outlook for the 2016 budget, in the spirit of rationalising and cutting the institutions' expenditure. i reiterate our firm intention to send a signal to the union as well. we cannot afford to be irresponsible at a time like this, when economic recovery is slow and unleashing. the european union must be able to take action to help the people of europe, and to help the people of europe to take action to help the people of europe.
in writing. ‒ i did not support this text because i do not consider the outcome of the agreement reached satisfactory. it is unacceptable that in such a period of economic crisis some totally inappropriate items of expenditure should be increased further, such as funding for european political parties and foundations or increased expenditure on parliamentary assistance, but the list of criticisms is long. i find it unacceptable that parliament has three places of work, and it is ridiculous to increase the travel expenses for members travelling between brussels and strasbourg. i do not think that the well-paid european civil servants need a raise either. another item of expenditure which i find hardly justifiable is that devoted to the parlamentarium and the house of european history, two structures with the same purpose which could be revised. i do not think that this increase in the cost of policy is appropriate and for all these reasons i voted against it.
oral explanations of vote
written declarations of vote
in writing. - i voted against it. i am voting against the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office. this mechanism implies a further loss of sovereignty for national parliaments. the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office does not seem to me to be in line with the principle of subsidiarity which should inspire european legislation.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the establishment by 2016 of a strong and independent european public prosecutor's office, capable of investigating, prosecuting and bringing to justice those responsible for offences affecting the eu's financial interests. the european public prosecutor's office must overcome the obstacles to crossborder judicial cooperation and pursue a common european policy because it is in the interest of citizens to have a system that works and protects the european budget. fraud in european funds and the regularity of procurement will be some of the areas of operation of the european public prosecutor's office. i believe that an innovative approach to investigating, prosecuting and bringing to justice those who commit fraud against the financial interests of the union is needed in order to increase the effectiveness of the fight against fraud, the recovery rate and taxpayers' confidence in the eu institutions. the european public prosecutor's office should not be a duplicate of national public prosecutor's offices. i think that the european public prosecutor's office should therefore determine, before the national authorities start their own investigations, whether the case falls within its competence, in order to avoid the inefficiency of parallel investigations.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman, which fights fraud against the eu's financial interests and thus against fraud perpetuated against all eu citizens, is certainly a priority. it is hoped that its remit will be extended to the fight against serious transnational crime, especially organised crime.
in writing. ‒ the measure in question concerns the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office. the added value of the eppo should be to converge criminal investigations and prosecutions into a single, independent office operating at european level for cases of fraud against union funds, and to strengthen criminal prosecutions, the recovery of funds and taxpayers' trust in the european institutions. the european public prosecutor's office (eppo), the establishment of which is also provided for in article 86 tfeu, would be composed of: the european public prosecutor's office shall be responsible for the prosecution of all criminal offences in the member states. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office because i believe it is essential to bring together criminal investigations and prosecutions aimed at establishing fraud against the union in different countries in a single european office. this would allow the union to recover large sums of money, fraud is suspected to be worth some eur 500 million a year, although there are reasons to believe that the figure could be as high as eur 3 billion, but above all the trust of taxpayers in the european institutions. let us not forget that the union and the member states have an obligation under the treaties to combat fraud and other illegal activities which harm the financial interests of the union itself. in doing so, the eppo should be able to combine the effectiveness of prosecution of offences against the budget of the union with a high level of safeguards for the persons involved in the investigations. the differences between national laws must not create a breach in which crime can take root. this is why we must set up a single european prosecutor's office, which is strong and independent also from the member states themselves, where the current system, although functioning, has often proved ineffective.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office would lead to a further loss of sovereignty of the member states which have exclusive competence in criminal law, and would also give this body too wide powers, which is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this interim report because, in my opinion, the creation of a european public prosecutor will not only provide the eu with a more efficient system to fight fraud against eu funds, but also because it represents, another step towards a closer integration of the judicial systems of the member states. nonetheless i strongly believe that the european public prosecutor´s office should be independent from any kind of political influence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the interim report by my colleague, ms monica mancovei, on the creation of a european public prosecutor's office. in order to provide adequate protection for the financial interests of the union, the amendment of the current regulatory framework appears to be more than necessary, especially in the light of the fact that the bodies currently in existence do not have effective powers of investigation and prosecution and that the work carried out by the prosecutors of the member states appears to be insufficient. the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office, with the power to investigate and prosecute before national courts offences affecting the financial interests of the union, will make it possible to combat fraud and illegal activities more effectively and to ensure equivalent protection of european interests in all member states. the compromise proposal on the governance structure of the institution, with a collegially composed central office, with a european prosecutor appointed by each member state, and the strengthening of the role of the permanent chambers is considered a good "point of balance" between supranational control and participation of the member states in the functioning of the office.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this interim report. the creation of a european criminal justice system, of which the establishment of a european public prosecutor is a key step, is a means of restoring and strengthening citizens' trust in the institutions and, more generally, in the eu apparatus as a whole. this support will also be necessary for the possible expansion of the offences prosecuted by the european public prosecutor, which we hope will happen with regard to offences related to organised crime, as provided for in article 86 tfeu. the report i am voting for sets out the political priorities of the european parliament and outlines the principles and conditions under which parliament could approve the legislator's proposal. in its resolution of 12 march 2014, parliament called on the council to involve it closely in its work and put forward a number of policy proposals on some of the most crucial issues at stake: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european data protection supervisor.
in writing. i am in favour of the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office because, to date, there is an alleged fraud against the financial interests of the union worth some eur 500 million per year. given that the indictment rate is only 31% (from 2006 to 2013) of the number of judicial recommendations addressed to member states by olaf, only the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office (eppo) could fill this gap. however, provided that the independence of the eppo (from any undue influence by political parties, national political, administrative or judicial authorities, including the european institutions) and the transparency of the procedures for its selection and appointment are guaranteed. in addition, in order to prevent any conflict of interests, parliament has called, by this resolution, for the european prosecutor to be appointed on a full-time basis. the european public prosecutor's office will therefore be a collegiate body composed of a european prosecutor per member state headed by a chief prosecutor and a competence shared between the new prosecutor's office and the national prosecution services. in this resolution, parliament called for the eppo to submit an annual report to the eu institutions in order to ensure transparency and evaluation of its work.
in writing. ‒ the prosecutor of the republic nino di matteo, an italian magistrate who has always been at the forefront of the fight against the mafia, has repeatedly reminded that the mafia and corruption are now two sides of the same coin, stressing that: "there can be no real fight against the mafia if there is no repression of corruption". these words are of the utmost relevance in the debate on the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office to combat financial fraud in the interests of the european union. there is no doubt that the disease of organized crime, like the mafia, is increasingly lurking in the veins of fraud in the eu. the european parliament and the council have agreed to the need to strengthen the role of the european public prosecutor's office in the fight against corruption and organised crime. i therefore vote in favour of the report on the eppo, in the hope that the proposal to extend its scope to crimes other than those affecting the financial interests of the union, and specifically to organised crime, can be accepted by the council.
in writing. the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office could play a very important coordinating role, between the various prosecutor's offices in the member states, in combating fraud and illegal activities in europe. i therefore voted in favour of mrs macovei's report.
in writing. ‒ i am against the establishment of a european public prosecutor. our adversity has been long. fourteen chambers of the various sms expressed their opposition to this proposal, questioning its added value. as expressed in the reasoned opinions, the establishment of such a mechanism implies a further loss of sovereignty for national parliaments, by investing the eppo with overly broad powers, which go beyond the prerogatives of the member states and interfere in a matter of their competence, criminal law. despite the clarifications provided by the european commission in its review, the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office does not appear to be in line with the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ each year the eu loses between 500 million and 3 billion euro through fraud to its own detriment. it is not money stolen from the institutions, but first and foremost money stolen from european citizens as a result of criminal acts committed by exploiting loopholes in the rules which do not allow the perpetrators of these crimes to be effectively prosecuted. the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office, alongside the existing olaf, the european anti-fraud office, will finally enable us to combat this phenomenon more effectively and ensure the return of legality. as a european parliament, we have not only not abdicated our responsibilities but have, on the contrary, wanted to make a decisive contribution to the essential elements of this innovative instrument (including independence, investigative tools and expertise) by proposing solutions which we believe are balanced and effective.
in writing. the report by mrs macovei, which i supported, sets out very convincingly the features which parliament wants for the future european public prosecutor: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. parliament, pending the states' opinion, will have the final say. it is hoped that the final version of the agreement will also retain the same ambition and foresight.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the second report of the ep to the council on the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office because, first of all, i am in favour of a stronger involvement of the ep in the creation of a european public prosecutor's office, which is transparent and has strong democratic legitimacy. i supported the strong majority position of the ep to reaffirm the relevant aspects of the european public prosecutor: the commission has also been asked to provide information on the legal basis for the procedure, such as the structure, independence, powers, extent of the powers of inquiry, admissibility of evidence, and finally judicial review and legal protection. the new european public prosecutor's office must be unique, strong, independent and capable of tracing, prosecuting and bringing to justice those responsible for offences affecting europe's financial interests. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. the eppo should be able to conduct investigations in the member states in accordance with the principles of proportionality, proportionality and proportionality. the european public prosecutor's office should be able to extend its powers to other areas under specific conditions.
in writing. in the past, we have discussed and adopted a report which highlighted the serious problem of fraud to the detriment of the union. the numbers are staggering. every year, 500 million euros are taken from the community budget, money that would otherwise be used for development and growth, and which instead enriches criminals and fraudsters. and, even more serious, the union is unable to recover the funds embezzled. this shows a major flaw in the european system that must be fixed. it must be remedied through the european public prosecutor's office, which operates independently of the member states but in a spirit of cooperation. strengthening criminal prosecutions and bringing them together in a single european office through the european public prosecutor's office will provide the union with a key operational arm for the creation of a european area of justice.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report by mrs monica macovei. i consider the european public prosecutor's office to be a key instrument, capable of bringing together all investigations and prosecutions of citizens under investigation for fraud against the european union in a single office, namely the european public prosecutor's office. the desired results are: to strengthen criminal prosecutions, to increase citizens' confidence in the union institutions and to ensure greater recovery of funds. i thank mrs macovei for the delicate work she has done and i support the compromise text between the various political groups.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a council regulation establishing the european public prosecutor's office. the eppo represents an added value to the area of freedom, security and justice of the european union, a key element in the creation of a european area of criminal justice, and a necessary instrument for the protection of the financial interests of the union. it is essential that the office operates in full respect for and in compliance with fundamental rights, but also demonstrates its versatility, the ease of its procedures, its efficiency and its ability to achieve maximum results.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the idea that the protection of the financial interests of european citizens is one of the prerogatives of the community institutions. i find it unacceptable that funds intended for growth and for strengthening the economic development of the member states sometimes contribute to financing criminal and mafia-like activities. the data is alarming: more than 500 million dollars of funds lost annually to the speculative merchandise of delinquency. although a large number of member states have shown themselves able to recover part of the embezzled funds, many others seem unable to free themselves from the grip of illegality. if we really want to bring the people of the community back closer to the european project, we must work to recover the values which have always characterized them. only a full restoration of the rule of law within our borders will create the conditions for a new phase of confidence. for all these reasons i have decided to support the report signed by mrs macovei, who calls for the imminent establishment of a european public prosecutor's office to prosecute crimes of fraud against european finances.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office is a key step in the integration process and will help to prevent fraud against the budget of the institutions, thus allowing for greater control of expenditure and better use of the funds themselves.
in writing. ‒ parliament has repeatedly expressed its support for the creation of an independent and effective european public prosecutor's office to protect and defend the financial interests of the union. technically, this would mean bringing together criminal investigations and prosecutions into a single office, operating at european level, for cases of fraud and corruption involving eu funds, strengthening criminal prosecutions and at the same time increasing taxpayers' confidence in the european institutions. with this interim report, we intend to outline our political priorities, stressing the principles and conditions under which parliament could approve the legislator's proposal. since the adoption of the commission proposal in july 2013, we have shown a great interest and commitment to participate in the entire legislative process. we therefore call once again, as the democratically elected representatives of all european citizens, for the council to be involved in the negotiations, insisting on some of the most crucial and sensitive issues for us: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european data protection supervisor.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mrs macovei, which analyses the draft law establishing the european public prosecutor's office (eppo). each year the union loses at least eur 500 million in revenue and expenditure due to alleged cases of fraud. to close the loopholes that currently allow impunity for those who defraud the european taxpayer, the commission proposed the creation of an independent institution, the eppo, which would be tasked with bridging the gap between the criminal justice systems of european countries, whose powers are limited to national borders, and the eu bodies, which do not have the power to conduct criminal investigations. the added value of this office will be to converge criminal investigations and prosecutions into a single, independent, european-wide office for fraud cases involving union funds, and to strengthen criminal prosecutions, the recovery of funds and taxpayers' trust in the european institutions. the entire structure will draw on existing resources and should therefore not entail significant additional costs.
in writing. ‒ i am a strong supporter of the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office because this will bring together all criminal investigations and prosecutions into a single, independent office operating at european level for all cases of fraud and illegal activity affecting the eu's financial interests. the introduction of the single currency will ensure effective and uniform protection in all the eu member states and will lead to a much higher rate of recovery of citizens' money than is currently at an unacceptably low level. for all that, i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the future european public prosecutor because i firmly believe that the interests of the european union should be defended by a system coordinated at european level. eu funding is a fresh resource that must be used to the full to redistribute those regions in serious difficulty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. italy has already put in place a system for detecting, preventing and combating fraud against the eu which is producing excellent results and must continue along this path. however, coordination at european level of this strategy remains essential and the european prosecutor should have this role in the context of the already established realities of olaf, eurojust and europol. this report is only a first step towards the establishment of this body which will have to be independent and ensure effective coordination of the (requesting) judiciaries so that eu funding is protected and fraud is tackled in the same way across europe.
in writing. ‒ we need to strengthen the trust of european citizens and taxpayers in european institutions, which is why my group, the epp, has strongly called for a european public prosecutor's office: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. i decided to vote against the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office because it implies a further loss of sovereignty for national parliaments, by giving the european public prosecutor's office too broad powers, which go beyond the prerogatives of the member states and interfere in a matter of their competence, criminal law. despite the clarifications provided by the european commission in its review, the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office does not appear to be in line with the principle of subsidiarity. the chambers of parliament which have spoken on this subject have generally said that they are opposed to the hierarchical structure and the exclusive competence of the european parliament.
in writing. the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office (eppo) could play a key role in combating fraud and other illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the european union. the commission has identified cases of suspected fraud against the union budget amounting to eur 500 million per year. in addition, from 2006 to 2013, the actual charge rate was found to be 31% of the number of judicial recommendations addressed to member states by the european anti-fraud office (olaf). i therefore believe that it is necessary to create an eppo with an independent structure and with clearly defined powers, with national authorities able to investigate and prosecute the perpetrators of crimes against the european budget and to ensure more effective recovery of funds, thus strengthening the taxpayers' confidence in the european institutions. i hope that the council will take due account of the recommendations and conditions set out by parliament in the interim report to which i have decided to give my full support.
in writing. ‒ today's vote underlines that the added value of the european public prosecutor's office is to bring criminal investigations and prosecutions together in a single, independent office, operating at european level for cases of fraud against union funds, and to strengthen criminal prosecutions, the recovery of funds and taxpayers' trust in the european institutions. the current system, while functioning well in some member states, has proven to be rather ineffective in the union as regards criminal proceedings and the recovery of funds.
the climate of violence, terror and intimidation which is driving thousands of people to the borders of rwanda to flee a possible new ethnic conflict in burundi is a matter of great concern to us. and the choice, as has just been mentioned, of the outgoing president to run for a third term in violation of the arusha agreements risks plunging burundi into a past of ethnic violence, and making the democratization process in the country, which you mentioned, futile. a few weeks ago, accompanied by a delegation from my group, i went to the great lakes region and burundi. the motives and conditions of the 1994 genocide are all still there, only subtle. we cannot sit idly by and wait for these conditions to spawn a new monster. we must act now. we are aware that high representative mogherini is following developments closely and effectively and we call on her to renew pressure on the president not to stand for re-election. but i myself want to appeal directly to the president: mr president of burundi, do you want to be a power without a people, or do you want to become a decisive player in the democratic transition of your country? mr president, think again! we, however, as the european union, will do our part.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced today with a great responsibility from which we cannot escape. we are in a position to stop a massacre that is threatening to reach the scale of a genocide in central africa. yes, the genocide! too often, mr president, the failure to use that word has led us to stand by and watch innocent people being slaughtered. president nkurunziza's candidacy for a third term has had a negative effect on burundi. we strongly condemn the arbitrary arrests, the violations of human rights and the restrictions on freedom of the press and of expression which the burundian government is putting into effect at this time, and i hope that the radio stations which have been closed will also be opened, starting with rpa. we must take all the necessary steps to open a peace table in the country, if necessary also using the instrument of individual sanctions against the enemies of peace. in april 21 years ago, burundi's civil war spilled over into neighbouring rwanda, sparking one of the most shameful massacres in recent human history. so we called ourselves impotent. we can't say the same now. we'd be accomplices. to use the words of general dallaire, head of the un mission in rwanda during the genocide, we would be shaking the devil's hand.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have already spoken in this house about the situation in burundi, on the occasion of the arrest in january of bob rugurika, journalist and director of radio publique africaine. the situation is likely to explode in these hours, alerting world public opinion. the clashes between the army and protesters, which have been ongoing since april 25, are the bloodiest since the ethnic civil war that plagued the country from 1993 to 2005. the independent media have been particularly affected, as in the last 48 hours they have seen their broadcasts suspended in whole or in part, the maison de la presse press club closed and some of their journalists detained. the reason for the tension is the position of the head of state of burundi, who after serving two terms has decided to run again for the presidential elections in may in violation of article 96 of the constitution he himself drafted. it is also necessary for europe to intervene firmly and decisively with the burundian authorities to find civilian and democratic forms of government, in order to avoid the real risk of a new civil war in the country and to guarantee the population the fundamental freedoms of thought and expression.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately we are talking about burundi for the umpteenth time and we must note an authoritarian turn, in fact a democratic break with what were also the agreements reached in arusha in 2000. the unconstitutional candidacy of the present president nkurunziza, in my opinion, and in the opinion of many people, from what i have heard in this house, shows a total lack not only of political responsibility but also of attachment to the welfare of the people, rather one could speak of attachment to power and to the chair. the violence that is taking place in the country these days, as well as the flight of many citizens to neighbouring countries, make us realize how important it is for the european union to maintain a firm line and exert all possible pressure to make the president understand that this candidacy is not appropriate and could plunge the country back into the genocide and civil war of '94. we have the power, perhaps, to hope that we can prevent a catastrophe before it happens and we hope that all the necessary measures are taken to prevent it.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, kenya, almost 150 innocent students massacred to kill the future of the country. unfortunately, after this massacre, i did not see world leaders marching together in the streets of paris or any other capital. obviously there are charlies who are more or less charlie than others. the real problem facing the country is the social issue, the issue that also arises from the massive immigration from somalia, due to the more than decade-long collapse of the country. the dadaab refugee camp, in fact, has almost 900 000 somalis and is perhaps the largest in the world. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat poverty, and i am sure that the commission will take them seriously. poverty is the first ally of terrorism, as well as the paradigm of the clash of civilizations, and pope francis, with the religious leaders of the somali muslim faith communities, did well to remember this. poverty is terrorism's first ally, dignity its worst enemy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the massacre of christian students in kenya has shocked the conscience of the west. these boys slaughtered for the sole reason that they are christians are a small part of a slaughter that europe pretends not to see. there are 100 million persecuted christians in the world and a hundred thousand christians are killed, beheaded or crucified every year, one every five minutes, before our eyes and, as pope francis says, with the complicit silence of the european institutions. behind this mad genocide there are not economic interests but religious intolerance, radical islam that preaches hate. for these fanatics, for these monsters, the christians, we christians have no right to exist, to live, we must be erased. we have to die. that's the truth. a truth that europe continues to culpably underestimate. why would you do that? why does this europe, which has not given up defending its christian roots in the european constitution, not act, not react, not do anything to stop this extermination? i have a request, a prayer for you, my colleagues: let no more innocent blood be shed in the name of allah!
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, amos, feith, elizabeth, edward, almost 150 names, people, students, young people, hopes. these are not numbers lost in a macabre budget. today we honour those victims by strongly condemning the fundamentalist extremism that is spreading ever faster across the african continent. the terror in the horn of africa is called al-shabaab, which means young people, but a youth that is destroying the future, undermining the education of future generations. today we call for decisive action to repel the blind extremist violence, because behind the thousands of lives that are killed every day lies the future of a continent. we therefore call for action by the union to address the root causes of radicalisation, because fighting terrorism means fighting marginalisation, poverty, eliminating discrimination and reconciling ethnic and religious divisions within a country. but the fight against terrorism cannot be used as a pretext for kenya to reject civil liberties. every step backwards in the democratization of a country is a victory for terrorism, which today more than ever is a challenge to the common values of modern civilization based on the fundamental principles of human rights. i'm not sure i'm ready to go.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that when we talk about 150 dead children it is very sad to see the ideologisation of the matter, it is very sad to see us arguing about how often we use the word christians in the resolution or whether or not to emphasize more the fact that they are christians. these are kids, they are a christian minority, it's true, but if we fight, we send a message that is the same as the message of hate that they received in their country in kenya and it's not a positive message. the european union should and must be united in countering any form of terrorist attack, whether against a christian minority or any other, in a very decisive way without hesitation. that is the message that must come out of this house. i hope that from now on we will be much more united in bringing this kind of voice. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue-card question. i agree with mr jiménez and it is right that we should fight an attack on a christian minority, i absolutely agree and it is absolutely right that we should defend the origins of europe, we know that europe has a christian origin. what i was complaining about is that it's very bad to see how during negotiations between different groups we are fighting over words or words, because in the end the message that comes out is a negative message about something so important and in the face of a problem of global dimensions, because it's not just al-shabaab, we are talking about isis, we are talking about boko haram. this is a problem that we have to deal with very intelligently because it involves the persecution of so many minorities. that was the point of my speech.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here once again to mourn the dead, but we do not have the courage to say that they are dead, why is all this happening? are we fearless, are we afraid or are we affected by this horrible thing that is taking hold in this continent of ours which is christian-phobia? because i really feel like i'm hearing things here that aren't in heaven or on earth. europe must take action. we always say that we are the bearers of rights, but it must take responsibility for defending our fundamental rights. freedom of religion is the most sacred of rights, it is the source of all other rights, the sundial map on which we can measure a society and its level of freedom. we applauded the pope, but when the pope says that injustice must be denounced and eliminated, then do we not applaud him anymore? or we applaud him and then we do something else. i am also really surprised to hear, when talking about kenya, that christians are a minority. but christians in kenya are 83 percent of the population, so christians are martyrs when they're a minority, they're martyrs when they're a majority. the last century was the century of christian martyrs even more than the times of ancient rome and this century opened with horrors that are becoming more and more dramatic, more and more horrible, we hear people burned. then i make an appeal: i am a migrant, i am charlie hebdo, i have heard it all, we have the courage to say 'i am a christian' (the speaker agrees to answer a question on a blue card) (rule 162 (8)).
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i would like to ask mrs elisabetta gardini, in kenya non-muslims were killed, it was not a specific attack on christians. i ask you this: if we as the european parliament take a position solely in defence of the religion which is the majority religion within our union, we are sending a divisive signal. do we agree that we should defend any kind of religious attack? that is the question.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. i am so in agreement that i proposed the iraqi patriarch for the sakharov prize because he is a personality who defends all the christian minorities present in iraq. but when we are faced with such a mass slaughter, where people are selected on the basis of religion and killed because they do not know a verse of the koran or because they carry a cross, we must also have the courage to say that among the many martyrs there are, and unfortunately there are many, christian martyrs. i don't understand why this inability to recognize reality.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the massacre of christian students in kenya is appalling and shocking. once again terrorism unleashes its violence in the places of culture and knowledge, the only weapons that can really make men free. the murderous fury of religious extremism has an even more disturbing and intolerable symbolic meaning, if possible, when we consider that a university, a symbol of peaceful coexistence and mutual understanding, has been hit. the aim is to destroy the future, to subjugate the young, to enslave them to a logic of violence and terror, to destroy thought and even imagination. the terrorists are rightly afraid that young people, by studying, will become aware that they can emancipate themselves, that they can build a future of freedom, that they can think of a different order. europe must absolutely keep this hope alive and support students so that they never resign themselves to violence.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, religious freedom is at risk in many parts of the world. the persecution of christians continues, and they continue to be the target of targeted violence by armed groups affiliated with radical groups. christians of all denominations have been victims of bloody persecution from the middle east to india, from africa to pakistan. pope francis has repeatedly called on the international community not to stand by silently and inertly as the massacre unfolds. today, compared with the past, we are witnessing a more intense, more severe, more methodical and ruthlessly ideologized persecution. christians are targeted because they are seen by islamic extremists either as a danger to islam or as an obstacle on the path to the islamization of middle eastern countries. in this context, the massacre in kenya by an islamist commando that stormed a college near garissa, killing 147 mostly christian young people, was particularly vicious. the aim of the extremists has been not only to spread terror and bloodshed but also to deprive the country of its future and its dignity. the international community cannot stand by and watch, and europe must do its part.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– madam president, this debate has shown that despite societal differences, there are commonalities to radicalisation. the root causes pushing vulnerable individuals into extremism – marginalisation, poverty, unemployment, discrimination and exclusion – have to be addressed in a serious and coordinated manner. poor and weak governance and corruption is a common denominator. governments have to assume responsibility, and the european union is already supporting good governance activities and could do more. marginalised youth and individuals have to regain self-worth and optimism, not by extremists luring them into fantasies of heroism and reputation but by governments providing relevant academic and social education leading to a decent job and life. the killings and atrocities in garissa have proved once again, in the most tragic way, that education was the biggest threat to terrorism and violence. we shall work together and at all levels – internationally, regionally and at community level – to target radicalisation at grass-root level: from the top down and from the bottom up. information and lessons learned will be shared and developed. development and security strategies shall be coordinated and the fight against radicalisation and violent extremism shall be integrated into a cross-cutting issue. i recognise that we are facing an enormous challenge. this is why i am determined to use all our means in the most efficient and targeted way. yesterday’s commission communication on capacity-building in support of security and development reinforced the strong link between security and development. european responses will be coordinated in line with the security and development component; this will be the case for all ongoing or future crises, including our fight against violent extremism targeting christians in the world.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commission, council, i would like to say that this morning the european parliament made a strong statement that europe cannot be resigned, but must be solidary and effective in the face of the humanitarian crisis in the mediterranean, with a demand for a new assumption of responsibility and for specific commitments. we have condemned the persecution of christians throughout the world, and in particular the killing of students in kenya, but there is another form of destruction of the identities and future of entire populations which europe cannot afford to ignore, namely the destruction of cultural and religious heritage by isis, particularly in syria and iraq. i think of mosul, and nimrud, the ancient nineveh, i think of the assyrian archaeological site of hatra, the green church of tikrit, the mosque of jonah. in syria, nearly 300 syrian cultural heritage sites have been destroyed, including the aleppo citadel and the umayyad mosque. it is not just the effects of war, but a deliberate, planned, continuous action of cultural cleansing which aims to erase archaeological sites and cultural and religious symbols of the heritage of those peoples and of the whole world. an action that is truly terrifying, using the tools of physical removal of memory and the zeroing of the cultural identity of the peoples, as an integral part of the plans of expansion of isis. today we are also discussing the persecution of christians in the middle east and africa, but this also applies, of course, to this form of persecution, but we also know, as you can see, that muslim religious sites are also the target of the fundamentalists' attacks, because in my view, the real objectives are three: religious freedom, inter-religious coexistence and education was also said recently by vice president mimica. and then there's the exploitation of artistic and archaeological finds as improper weapons, as a source of funding for terrorism. according to authoritative sources, not just journalistic sources, i mean the guardian and other official sources, from the archaeological area just west of damascus alone, over 36 million dollars have been raised through illegal trade, and it is estimated that this is the second largest source of funding for isis after oil. for these reasons we are particularly pleased that, after the unanimous vote by parliament on the amendment to the human rights report to make intentional and continuous destruction of cultural heritage a crime against humanity, the house is today discussing with the commission and the council the oral question which i have tabled on behalf of the committee on culture. but it is particularly significant that a resolution on which six political groups in parliament have agreed will be voted on tomorrow. i should also like to say that there is strong support from the committee on foreign affairs, with which we want to relaunch parliament's action on cultural diplomacy and cultural cooperation. the main points of the resolution are these, which i want to say briefly. first of all, we must ask the european union to take the necessary steps, together with unesco and the international criminal court, to extend the definition of a crime against humanity to these acts, namely the deliberate and continuous destruction of cultural heritage. we call on the high representative, mrs mogherini, in particular, to take the necessary steps in the un security council, in agreement with unesco, which has already made this request, to put an end to the trade in artistic objects from these war zones and to prepare, together with the member states, security measures at the european borders to combat this smuggling. to this end, we are calling for maximum coordination with unesco, un agencies and other international organizations, i am thinking of icom, the international council of museums with its blue shield initiative, a so-called red cross of culture which works to protect cultural property in wartime, natural disasters and also for the investigations which require close cooperation with europol and interpol. we call for an exchange of information and best practice between member states to counter this, together with the strengthening of the informal e-culture net which brings together european cultural heritage authorities. we also call for the use of satellite technologies not only to document and verify what is really happening and what they are taking away, what they are destroying, but also to help those young syrian archaeologists who are risking their skin trying to photograph and hide the heritage. we need campaigns such as the one on cooperation with the unesco united4heritage campaign, which also aims to raise awareness among local people and to strengthen the networking of universities, research institutes and cultural institutions, also so that they circulate codes of ethics in this field and finally ask the member states that have not yet done so to ratify the unesco conventions on measures to be taken in the context of the illegal sale or trade in archaeological or artistic findings. i am sure that with this initiative of ours and tomorrow's resolution we will take a step forward with the european union in the real, effective awareness that we are talking about a good that is a good of humanity not only of those peoples and above all we are also showing that we want to go forward in a form of cooperation also in the reconstruction of these sites, but above all to say loudly that this type of terrorism is a terrorism that risks being really devastating in the conscience and in the future as well as in the memory of these peoples. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the author, réponse "carton bleu". the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that would make a difference.
the systematic destruction of cultural heritage by daesh in syria and iraq, as well as the previous ones by the taliban and al-qaeda in afghanistan and mali, are in their own right crimes against humanity, because ethnic cleansing has always included or started with the eradication of memory. these crimes are part of the same logic that leads fundamentalist fanaticism to kill innocents, rape, stone and humiliate women, impose absurd bans on any expression of civil liberties, even on any form of honest entertainment such as a football game or a song. i think there is no doubt about that, there has not been any doubt in this house, but we should also reflect as westerners on what we can do to correct our mistakes, on how wrong it was, for example, to base the debate on the war on terrorism on a supposed clash of civilizations, because fundamentalist fanaticism does not represent any civilization, only a bloody thirst for absolute power. fanaticism is the enemy of civilization in islamic countries as much as it is the enemy of civilization in western countries, as we were told this year by a wonderful film by an african author, "timbuktu" by abderrahmane sissako. if we want to combat terrorism and the horror of these scenes effectively, we cannot delude ourselves that we can achieve this result by motions alone, however important they may be, however important it may be to stop the illegal trade in artistic goods. we must combat the fanaticism that is rising on our part, the ignorance of the history and culture of the islamic countries that we have demonstrated by military interventions carried out with insane and counterproductive logic. the xenophobes are the best allies of these murderers and these murderers are the best allies of our racists, both of whom work to make our society more unjust, our culture poorer.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of the resolution deserves to be tackled objectively. we all condemn the destruction of cultural sites by isis, but we must ask ourselves questions and identify the root causes of the problem by dividing the issues. i believe that the real problem to be tackled and solved is the theft and sale of archaeological artefacts on the various european black markets run by organised crime. this is the crux of the matter, and it deserves to be tackled with a cool head. the permanent state of conflict in these territories, and therefore not only the action of isis, encourages the theft and subsequent sale of archaeological finds, multiplying acts of destruction. the european union, and above all the member states with competence in this area, must act to put an end to the existence of these black markets and to work to bring an end to the wars that are bleeding the territories involved. then there are the videos that are distributed ad hoc, which obviously strike our imagination by arousing indignation. but here again, it is good to ask ourselves questions: who are these ghostly isis fighters? who's arming them? why are these scary images coming out now? the manipulation of public opinion and propaganda are not new. perhaps these images are useful to make public opinion digest an armed intervention that should be avoided at all costs because it prevents further dramas.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the violations of fundamental freedoms by daesh in syria, iraq and other territories currently held hostage by the so-called caliphate are numerous and repeated. forced conversions, torture, killings are the order of the day. the systematic and deliberate destruction of artifacts, works of art and places of worship is complementary to the persecution against individuals and communities: the european union is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. the destruction of this cultural wealth is then widely publicized by da'esh itself, with the intention of demonstrating its alleged power, alleged and not real, because it attacks the cultural heritage of all humanity, having no arguments to support its ideology of hatred and intolerance. the destruction of cultural heritage in the middle east is a moral crime against humanity, because without a past or a memory, man and civilization risk the future. it is therefore particularly important that the european union, in cooperation with unesco and the international criminal court, take the necessary measures to extend the category of international law of crimes against humanity to the atrocities perpetrated by da'esh.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mrs silvia costa for bringing this very important and serious matter to the attention of parliament, the commission and the council, and for providing a platform for discussion and positive action which must certainly be taken, because to see these images of the destruction of what is a heritage of humanity - these are unspeakable assets which, unfortunately, can no longer be rebuilt - is violent, it cannot be compared with the killing of human beings, but the images we have seen in the media and on television are no less violent. so tomorrow we will vote in favour of the resolution and i really hope that there can be decisive action to prevent all this, in addition to the fact, as has been said, of the financing of organised crime and terrorism.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate president costa on the important initiative he has taken. for decades, even ancient works of art have been destroyed in the name of blind religious hatred. we all have before our eyes the terrible images of the devastation of the mosul museum. from the territories of iraq and syria in the hands of isis, there continues to be a succession of videos of vandalism against art duly disseminated to strike the west at the roots of its cultural identity, and all this without telling the ferocity against books and libraries that from raqqa to mosul, from cairo to tripoli continue to burn. unesco director-general irina bokova has described the destruction of artistic sites by isis as cultural cleansing and a war crime. unesco itself estimates the proceeds of the illicit trafficking of cultural property that escapes the destructive fury of isis at $2.2 billion. effective action is needed to stop the destruction of art by islamists. the international community must work to bring this heinous terrorist activity to a swift end and to combat the illegal trafficking of cultural heritage.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when the sun of culture is low, dwarfs look like giants. i think that the extremists of daesh have unknowingly understood the wisdom behind this maxim of karl kraus. this terrible iconoclastic violence, this cultural genocide perpetrated by daesh against archaeological and cultural sites, should make us think seriously and carefully. among the many reasons behind this horrific crime against humanity, besides the illicit trafficking of archaeological treasures which remains one of the main sources of funding, one can also see the attention paid to these sites in the past by authoritarian regimes once well supported or at least tolerated by the west based on the concentration of power and resources in the hands of a few elites. so destroying these sites almost ends up being a perverse ideological claim, not just a source of profit. revenge against the old regimes, but also against the west, which used to colonize. that is why we must push for a real solution which is a dialogue with the regimes.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the images we receive from syria and iraq are always of terror and destruction, but in this case the target is memory, history. the islamic state militants who have attacked cultural and archaeological sites are attacking the identity and culture of entire populations. their war is not a war for the conquest of territory, but for the annihilation of an entire civilization, not sparing even the symbols of history. they should be prosecuted by the international community as war criminals. but first they must be stopped. we cannot allow them to replace a thousand-year-old tradition with an ideology of oppression and terror. the whole world through unesco is committed to promoting the cultural heritage of humanity, now this endangered heritage must be defended and in any case we do not stop talking about it, and thank president costa for raising the debate.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in many parts of the world we are witnessing the disintegration of the fundamental values of living in a community, and as members of the european parliament we cannot be insensitive or inert towards any of them. the political and institutional crisis in the maldives has undermined the fundamental principles of the rule of law and that is why our attention is first and foremost on the reconstruction of a peaceful atmosphere and a calm political debate, with support for the police to commit themselves to protecting the freedom of opposition to demonstrate in complete safety and for the judicial authorities to be depoliticised. we therefore call on the eu delegation to sri lanka and the maldives to monitor the situation and to provide the high representative federica mogherini with all the information and tools to act proactively through bilateral and international relations to strengthen the democratic system in the maldives and ensure full respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a disturbing reality in the maldives which the glossy pictures in the tourist catalogues do not tell. this is the reality that is happening right now with former president mohamed nasheed, sentenced to 13 years in prison. the trial has been described by many international observers as a political trial and amnesty international has called it a farce. thousands of people have demonstrated their dissent by boat to the capital malé and unfortunately it must be noted that journalists and many activists have been arrested and intimidated so that they do not continue with these expulsions. the country is travelling on a completely different and distant track, it has reintroduced the death penalty we remind you that we as the european union are strongly against the unacceptable barbarity that leads even children of 13 years old to be executed at an older age. the maldives was then on the front line of climate change, and that too was forgotten. i think we have to work hard to make this new executive understand that the rule of law is not optional and that there must be no exploitation of migrants. we have a duty to ensure that the holiday paradise does not become the hell of democracy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly not easy to analyse the situation of an entire country with all these difficulties in just one minute, but i should like first of all to thank mr fleckenstein for the excellent work he has done in this report and, in order not to repeat what others have said before, i would also like to dwell on the serious problem of the public medical and hospital facilities in the country and the sanitary situation, which unfortunately still presents a rather critical situation because of the sewerage and water systems and the inadequate functioning of the waste disposal system. in addition to this, it is worth highlighting the following pillars that albania must address in the coming years: the independence of the judiciary must be strengthened, the fight against corruption and the neutrality of the public administration. from this point of view, it will also be crucial to work with european intelligence and police forces to prevent all forms of radicalisation and extremism, and it is also good that a recent collaboration between italy and albania has led to the arrest of three isis recruiters on albanian territory. the road to accession is still a long one and we hope that this commitment to achieve concrete results will continue.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr fleckenstein for the excellent work he has done on this report and, of course, all the shadow rapporteurs. albania has been a candidate country for accession to the european union for almost a year and has since made important steps forward on its path towards membership. however, there are still many challenges that tirana must try to respond to effectively. the last meeting of the delegation to the eu-albania stabilisation and association parliamentary committee, which i also attended, was a good opportunity to encourage our albanian colleagues to continue and intensify their efforts to implement reforms around the five key priorities, such as the need to reform the judiciary with the help of the venice commission; as a professional, independent and depoliticized public administration; the importance of genuine media that are independent and pluralistic not by chance the resolution identifies them as pillars of democracy and then strengthen efforts against corruption and organized crime at all levels and continue the fight to guarantee the rights of lgbt minorities and of course also of the roma minority. all this can be done if and to the extent that there is that constructive political dialogue between the parliamentary forces, between the political forces of the majority and the opposition, without which the progress of the reforms is likely to be undermined.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the integration of bosnia and the entire western balkans is certainly a historical necessity for the european union, but the rapporteur, mr preda, was right when he said earlier that i thank him for the work he has done, that bosnia must be put back on the path of the eu, but above all that bosnia must actually want to get back on the path of its own free will and with a sincere will. the political, administrative and judicial problems are still enormous, the administrative system is fragmented, the judicial system is still not capable of making a real fight against organized crime and corruption which affect the entire public sector and also access to public employment and services. i regret to say that the constitutional structure of the state itself is still an inescapable problem today and it is a problem which all bosnian citizens will certainly have to face in the first place. of course the signs, the protest last year, but today's brutal attacks are very strong signs not to be underestimated and we also condemn the recent new law on public order and peace which seems to strongly threaten the freedom of social networks.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. thank you for accepting the "blue card". the question i wanted to ask you is this: i see that you rightly emphasized the problem of jihadism; in your opinion, can a state with such an intricate architecture, with 13 federal units, 14 governments and parliaments and almost 200 ministers, such as the current bosnian state, with one of the most expensive and complex administrative systems in the world, effectively guarantee a serious response against the danger of radicalization of extremism today?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the comments made in recent speeches, it is also worth noting that bosnia is a country of origin, transit and also destination for trafficking in human beings. we can think - and i recall the questions put by mr castaldo - that a country in this situation is capable of dealing with what my country is not capable of dealing with, which is one of the founding countries with a legal tradition, with a first-rate police force, etc. we are all aware of this, but like alice in wonderland, the rapporteur does not speak of these problems, he makes some vague, very cautious, optimistic reference, as if there were an obligation to host what today, if we decided to admit bosnia and herzegovina today, would be a strongly islamized enclave, if it is true as it is that there is an unspecified but very high number, especially among young people, of jihad sympathizers or activists, and then a lot of caution, the precautionary principle. let us see for ourselves, let us not tell lies to the european parliament. the situation in bosnia is what these colleagues have described, nothing more.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union project was born at one of the darkest moments in the history of the continent, but it was precisely to overcome that moment that the conditions were created so that the peoples of the countries that are members of it could live a better history. bosnia was in the darkest period of its history less than 20 years ago, and the war still leaves many traces. the new approach of the european union to bosnia and herzegovina is positive insofar as it reflects this objective of securing and improving the social and economic situation of the country to ensure a better life for all citizens. but the process of reform and effective implementation of policies that consolidate the conditions for an inclusive and fully functioning state must not stop. that is why the bosnian political leadership must avoid nationalist and secessionist attitudes that create tension and division in society. we are ready to help improve the situation in the country so that this opportunity is not lost.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission proposal we are discussing is an amendment to a 2009 regulation establishing trade preferences for the european union in the balkans. this report is not particularly relevant from a practical point of view, but it is politically very important. some of the proposals contained in it have found general agreement. the extension of trade preferences for the balkan countries to 2020 and the introduction of the benchmark for judging whether or not to obtain these human rights preferences. more delicate was the discussion on the question of the suspension of these preferences for bosnia on 1 january 2016 if no agreement is found between bosnia and the european union in relation to a dispute. the dispute is mainly centred on the fact that bosnia does not intend to adapt the interim trade agreement to the new situation of croatia's accession to the european union and therefore to the fact that the european union no longer has 27 countries but 28 and this must of course be the new parameter that also determines the measures of trade relations. as regards the sanctions mechanism - let us call it that - my report supports it, it considers it fair, but at the same time my concern, our concern, was not to consider it as a punitive measure but to associate it with a very strong revival of the political prospect for bosnia of joining the european union, because the situation in bosnia, as was also discussed in the previous report, is a very dramatic situation indeed and bosnia cannot get out of its crisis on its own but needs the european union. this work we have done with our colleagues has also helped to make progress in the prospect of bosnia's accession to europe, thanks also to the initiative of the high representative mogherini, so much so that the political leaders of bosnia have signed a document defining the reform plan, the commitments for reforms, this document has been solemnly approved in the bosnian parliament and on 1 june the whole process of the association and stabilisation agreement between the european union and bosnia will be completed. in our report we point to the path of delegated acts, that is to say the path which also ensures to some extent greater control over these sensitive political issues and greater transparency, greater control and greater commitment by parliament. the amendments which have come to us and which are against, there are four, we are against these amendments because they call into question the sanction mechanism, but i would point out that although i have indicated that i would vote against these amendments, they come from the green group which has made a strong contribution to the general definition of our report. the other points were discussed in the inta committee with great consensus and i really hope that tomorrow we can go to a very strong vote.
member of the commission.– mr president, i am pleased to note the general support this house has shown to the commission’s proposal to extend trade preferences towards the western balkan region. this is important for all economic operators in the region in order to ensure the predictability of the legal framework and to foster trade flows with the european union. regarding one aspect of the proposal – the possible suspension of trade preferences towards bosnia and herzegovina – let me reiterate that this provision should be seen as an incentive to facilitate finding a solution to the adaptation of the stabilisation and association agreement. be assured that i will pass all your comments made tonight to my colleague cecilia malmström, who is the commissioner in charge of this file. the commission looks forward to the start of informal trilogues with parliament and the council, and hopes for a swift conclusion of this important legislative file.
the rapporteur. mr president, i thank all my colleagues for their generous opinions and i thank them, especially my croatian colleagues, because croatia has made a great deal of effort and has paid for its accession to the european union with sacrifices, in this case it has been harmed, but you have wanted to stress that these measures are not punitive but serve to promote the process of bosnia's progress towards the european union. i would like to thank in particular mr stier who has been so close to all the work as shadow rapporteur. as regards the question of human rights, i would like to say to mr preda that i was not in any way opposed to the positive wording, but it has been pointed out by several quarters that it makes it more difficult to apply the human rights yardstick in relation to the possible suspension of preferences and therefore the fact of emphasizing, say, 'serious and systematic' also makes it easier for the commission and parliament to intervene. as regards mr buchner's speech, i thank him for his courtesy and competence. i have heard, and it has been stated openly by the greens, that they did not agree with the suspension mechanism for bosnia. i just want to say that the european countries will only be able to export to bosnia to the extent that croatia used to export to bosnia, so it is basically a photograph of the past, it adds nothing to the past and to the traditional trade relations that existed between bosnia and croatia.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner mimica, we are in a situation where the 0.7% of gross national income for development aid is not being respected by the member states, but is being renegotiated downwards. i think this is also an insult to the sense we give to the term 'developing country'. if we don't think about development, we don't even need to call them "developing countries", we can call them "states to be kept below the poverty line", "poor countries that we want to keep poor". so i think that this quota is a minimum quota which should be held as mandatory and should be respected by everyone, and furthermore this issue of development is very closely related to the issue of migration, to the issue of the emergency we are experiencing these days and for this reason it would be very important to make development effective in those countries. we have this great responsibility that we must not lose.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are still the world's largest donor, but we were committed to increasing official development aid to 0.7% of gross national income and unfortunately we are still far from this target and still divided. while some member states are increasing, others are declining. to fail to achieve this and not to reaffirm it this year, the european year of development, the year of the third international conference on financing for development, the year in which we are redrawing the new sustainable development goals, and in the days when we are discussing, among other things, how to deal also in the long term with the root causes of the great migration flows, such as poverty and inequality, would be a severe blow to the union's credibility, it would be inexplicable. if we really want europe to take the lead in the next negotiations, the 'we only do it if others do it' approach is not acceptable and linking the achievement of the 0.7% target to the setting of deadlines cannot be assumed only on condition that other middle-income countries and other emerging countries are willing to take on equally ambitious targets. so development aid cannot be another victim of austerity and i think we should reaffirm this objective with conviction. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue-card question. i am not an expert in mathematics or economics, but i know what it means to set ambitious and important targets, such as the millennium development goals, which were certainly ambitious but which have led to concrete results, just as the countries which have reached the 0.7% target have shown that it is possible to achieve concrete results. so i would not focus so much on the number, but i would think about the political result that we can achieve in the most effective development policies that we can pursue.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we had been waiting for this oral question and asked for it in order to understand why, two years after the adoption of the marrakesh treaty, the objective of removing all obstacles to the culture of the blind has not yet been achieved and we hoped, on this occasion, to have reassuring words from the representative of the commission, but above all from the minister representing the council. unfortunately, apart from the obvious declarations of consent on this treaty, i am not going away satisfied and calm tonight because it seems to me that, apart from the declarations of manners, there is still no firm position from the commission, which reiterates its commitment but tonight has told us that it is ready to seek the opinion of the court of justice, just as the council has told us that it is important to approve the treaty but that it is finding it difficult to find agreement among the states. the suspicion then becomes legitimate - as the rapporteur svoboda has reminded us, and i thank him for his efforts - that this treaty is in danger of being forgotten, but above all of being subject to a possible exchange, in the more complex issue of copyright which we are about to tackle. i think that is not right and i would ask, as my predecessor has said, for a commitment from the council to give us a timetable tonight and, if it is really a priority, for a commitment to an immediate solution to the adoption of this treaty.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are over 300 million blind and partially sighted people in the world with very limited access to books and therefore to education and culture, who are eagerly awaiting the entry into force of the marrakesh treaty. this will only be possible after ratification by at least 20 signatory states. but to date only eight states have ratified the treaty and none of them is european. it is therefore extremely important that the council clarifies the reasons why the ratification process by the european union is being delayed, so that parliament and the public can know what the obstacles are. all this is to eliminate at the root the suspicion that the publishing lobbies are trying to block the entry into force of the treaty for fear of losing control over their publications to the blind. if so, it would be very serious. in this connection, i would like to point out that copyright is certainly aimed at ensuring that authors of works are properly remunerated, but it is also aimed at promoting the dissemination of culture and knowledge. and it is precisely for this last reason that there are exceptions and limitations to copyright, including those enshrined in the marrakesh treaty. the european union and its member states have a moral duty to do everything possible, starting with the ratification of the marrakesh treaty, to provide the blind and visually impaired with adequate means of accessing culture and knowledge through books. but now it is the council's turn and it is time to really move from words to deeds.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is unfortunately only one word that comes to mind: it's called hypocrisy. how is it possible that the european union is not making efforts to ratify the marrakesh treaty as soon as possible after having signed it more than a year ago? it's a matter of civility. the holy see, which is not a bunch of subversives, called this treaty of the utmost importance because for the first time it granted an exception to copyright in support of human rights. i wonder: but how can you deny basic rights such as freedom of expression and information and the right to education to those who already have a disability? i believe that, beyond the legal technicalities, the commission, in so far as it is competent, and the council must take action so that the european union can ratify this treaty as soon as possible. i cannot and do not want to believe that quick fixes are found when banks have to be rescued, but that a thousand obstacles arise when the weakest are protected. so do not complain if citizens perceive the european institutions as distant and shout their anger at us: they're right, and i'm on their side.
in writing. the ratification of the marrakesh treaty is a matter of civilization. the dignity and seriousness of the european institutions are at stake. in the words of the holy see, which is an active party to the negotiations, this treaty is of the utmost importance, since for the first time it has been possible to provide for an exception to copyright which gives space to human rights and substantiates them in practice. i believe that it is a clear duty of all the institutions to guarantee the basic rights, such as freedom of expression and information and the right to education, provided for in articles 11 and 14 of the eu charter of fundamental rights respectively, also to those who are already disabled because they are blind or visually impaired. i am therefore convinced that the commission and the council will be able to find an immediate solution, by going beyond the legal technicalities, so that the eu can ratify the treaty as soon as possible. the ratification and entry into force of the treaty have already been delayed long enough and further inaction by the council would be in no way justified in the face of the denial of rights. the promotion and guarantee of the rights of the most vulnerable must be a priority for the european institutions.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i've been listening carefully so from italy and greece we're pretty close. but you do not believe that the problem is often the member states because the money is there as, as italy in seven years we have lost 15 billion euros for investments that were not asked for and were lost. so it is true that more needs to be done, but perhaps it must start with the member states asking for it and investing it in the right way: what do you think?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur for always being open and ready to talk and for insisting on pointing out certain problems relating to the eib's work. i am referring to the spectacular failure of the castor project financed through the project bond initiative, for example, or to all the scandals connected with the construction of the mestre bypass. in this text we strongly urge that the eib does not finance this project any further, even if the words of vice-president scannapieco last week are not reassuring. he has confirmed that he would like to start the project bonds for the mestre bypass by the end of the summer, but i hope that the voice of this parliament will not go unheard. the eib should return to its priority of lending support to smes operating in europe and for this reason i am also very sceptical about activities linked to the external mandate. a final point concerns the eib's new transparency policy: i find it absurd that instead of making progress and making this institution more accessible and transparent with the new rules, it is unfortunately going in the opposite direction.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the economic and financial crisis with its induced and perpetual austerity has for years undermined european economic growth by undermining macro- and micro-economic fundamentals and worsening social conditions. in this geoeconomic context, the eib is called upon to play the essential role of catalyser for sound, long-term public and private investment with the desired positive effects on lending conditions. however, almost half of the member states will not achieve their national targets on education, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and reducing unemployment and poverty. this implies an even greater commitment to strengthening the eib's financial instruments, which are thus seen as an essential commitment rather than an optional alternative. the 2013 report is very good, but i would like to focus on smes, which are the backbone of the european economy and the main target for investment. i can only regret their present financial stress and urge the eib, as the real engine of european entrepreneurship, to propose an action plan to achieve the right economic balance for smes throughout europe to enjoy stable and lasting eib financing.
in writing. i strongly support the deployment of the european investment bank's annual report 2013 because i believe it is very important to highlight the key role that the eib plays in promoting growth, through the financing of major investment projects that have been or are being implemented in european regions. the commission is also looking ahead to the strategic role it will play in financing the strategic investment plan promoted by the juncker commission, of which the efsi regulation, which is being adopted, is the key financial instrument. the capital increase decision adopted in 2013 enabled the eib to play a key countercyclical role during the crisis. it would therefore be appropriate for member states to initiate a new capital increase to allow for a boost to growth, the creation of quality jobs and to encourage private investment to a greater extent than in the past. the eib plays a key role in supporting smes, particularly in disadvantaged regions where unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, has reached socially unsustainable levels. i hope, therefore, that it will give priority to investment in areas which can generate clear and positive externalities for society as a whole.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, tomorrow in milan the 2015 world expo will officially open, with the theme 'feeding the planet, energy for life'. the same title as our resolution which we are about to vote on today. the european parliament is the first to speak at the expo, outlining the policy framework needed at european and global level to effectively address the challenge of food security. the initiative for this resolution was taken by the committee on agriculture, following a series of hearings and reflections on this subject, but it was then extended to include the contribution of many colleagues from a number of committees who wished to complement our work in a fruitful and effective way. food security is a matter of concern to all of us, and we cannot escape this global challenge which is affecting our agricultural and environmental policy, research, international trade and development policies. the growing demand for food is due both to a steadily increasing world population and to a change in eating habits in developing countries. we also observe the paradoxical coexistence of hunger in the world - without forgetting that too many people in europe are still living below the poverty line - and unbalanced diets that cause obesity even in poverty; at the same time, vast amounts of food are wasted in europe and around the world. the european commission itself estimates that 89 million tonnes of food are wasted in europe alone. i would remind you that this parliament, in the last parliament, already made a strong statement with a resolution against food waste and in favour of mandatory targets to reduce it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, the commission and the states participating in the expo, with the aim of drawing from the milan event real contributions to the global challenge of food security. we call for an effort to encourage the search for innovative agronomic practices that improve yields while reducing environmental impact. we call for greater public awareness, accompanied by education on balanced diets and consumption that prevent obesity and eradicate malnutrition. we need to set ambitious and binding targets to tackle food waste at every level of the food chain, from the field to the table. we need to increase transparency and fairness in the agri-food chain so that it can become truly sustainable and food secure. at the international level, we must do more as the european union to promote sustainable agriculture in developing countries and to combat land grabbing, namely the unregulated taking of land, particularly in africa. the european union will be present with its own pavilion at the expo, and a special steering committee chaired by former commissioner franz fischler has produced an interesting paper on the role of research in global food security. but today we are asking for something more, a more ambitious commitment. we need a strong and sustainable agricultural sector within the union, a development policy that is attentive to world agriculture, we need to fight against food waste and do more research and innovation, but above all, we want the european union to be the protagonist and leader of a global food policy. the challenge of food security in the world is one that we all have to face, and we cannot turn back. the european union can and must do more. the expo 2015 is a unique opportunity for the european union to strengthen its commitment to a more sustainable future.
member of the commission.– madam president, the commission welcomes the opportunity created by expo 2015 for an open debate on the global challenges related to food waste, sustainable agriculture and the need to fight hunger and eradicate obesity. we wish to reiterate our commitment to implementing eu policies and legislation to support sustainable food systems in close cooperation with the stakeholders, member states and the european parliament. the common agricultural policy has a great potential to make a real contribution to feeding the forecast 9 billion people by 2050, while taking care of natural resources. the principles of sustainability and producing more from less are well embedded in the long-term objectives of the common agricultural policy. concerning the point of the scarcity of natural resources in the 7th environment action programme to 2020, the european union is committed to protect, conserve and enhance the union’s natural capital. eu environment policy, and in particular the eu biodiversity strategy to 2020, the eu soil thematic strategy and eu legislation for the protection of water, air and natural habitats and species, aim at protecting, conserving and enhancing those natural resources to secure the provision of sustainable and healthy food production in the european union. in addition, sustainable food security is one of the major cross-cutting focus areas identified for research under the horizon 2020 work programme to continue until 2017. the commission is currently preparing an ambitious work programme and call for proposals on sustainable food security that aim to build more resilient and resource-efficient production and value chains. by promoting international collaboration, notably with china and africa, horizon 2020 research funding is expected to contribute to global food security. the european innovation partnership for agricultural productivity and sustainability is supported by the common agricultural policy and aims at closing the gap between research and practice. since 2012, the european commission has worked actively to identify the best possible action to take at eu level to fight food waste without compromising on food safety. the commission is committed to supporting the member states and stakeholders in their efforts to reduce food waste by helping to lift any obstacles and by promoting the sharing of best practice and transfer of knowledge and experience. at expo 2015, the commission will organise a conference dedicated to food waste prevention, focusing in particular on the importance of an effective intersectoral cooperation. the commission is committed to supporting the member states and stakeholders in strengthening resource efficiency in the food chain to prevent and reduce food waste from farm to fork. the commission is currently reflecting on the scope of the new, more ambitious circular economy package to be published by the end of this year, and will consider possible opportunities for action in the food sector as for all other sectors. any initiative taken at pan-european level has to have genuine eu added value. we will only take action where this can facilitate and augment ongoing action in the member states. while the promotion of healthy diets and lifestyles is a matter of national competence, the commission’s strategy on nutrition, overweight and obesity-related health issues and related implementing tools provide a framework and support to coordinate actions in the european union. it also promotes organic production with clear labelling rules, enabling customers to make an informed choice when making their purchases. i look forward to a debate on this important topic and i thank you.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. when a few years ago a theme was chosen for expo 2015 in milan, which starts tomorrow, you could hardly have a happier hand. feeding the planet, energy for life is indeed a central challenge of our time. providing people with enough healthy food and at the same time sustainable agriculture is one of the most fundamental challenges we face today. it takes several tools: we need a successful agricultural policy. we in the european union also have a role model to be followed around the world. we have had an agricultural policy for decades which has been aimed at preserving family farms. we are very successful. we are now a union that can provide food for its people, 500 million people. we are also the world's largest exporter of food, and we are therefore making a major contribution to feeding the world. but it also requires research and development. i am convinced that research and development must be intensified, particularly in the field of agriculture, and that it can or must operate without political constraints. that is why my group will certainly not support the amendments we are voting on today, which seek to give science a mandate as to what it can and cannot do. then there are the food habits and the distribution of food. it is sad that we live in a time when over-nutrition is increasingly killing people and fortunately under-nutrition is decreasing and killing fewer people, which is a great achievement of our time. it needs functioning supply chains. i think it's a great challenge to present these things at the expo on behalf of the european union. (the speaker agrees to put a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i do not know what you are referring to, but it is obvious that we have a common agricultural policy in the european union, which is also partly financed by the taxpayers. we spend around eur 55 billion a year on sustainable food production under our common agricultural policy. i think that this expenditure is very justified. i believe that we have also proved with the common agricultural policy that we are able to feed this continent and to provide food for the people of this continent with the help of the common agricultural policy.
the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european food safety authority, which is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. so let expo 2015 be our vehicle to say that food must be considered a human right like life, like health, like water. europe must mobilize because in a world which can provide food for all, not everyone has food, and with these priorities it must fight against waste, defend agricultural land, spread healthy food education; with the principle of sustainability we will ultimately safeguard the very survival of the earth.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are on the eve of the opening of the expo, and the conditions are unfortunately not good. the cases of mismanagement and corruption are well known, public money squandered on what should be a showcase of excellence for italy and for europe as a whole. it has been said that the european union can and must do more. we must of course insist on information and communication, promote healthy lifestyles, support a coherent and respectful agri-food chain, a chain which must see producers, distributors and consumers working together because consumers who are aware of the quality of their food and the environmental impact of their production will make a difference. we must give a voice to small producers, to small and mediumsized enterprises, because they are the real bearers of virtuous progress. small and medium-sized producers at expo seem to have been forgotten. we've seen how the big groups rule. we hope that we have still time to change course and hope that we do not live to regret a missed opportunity.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the expo milano 2015 world exhibition is addressing a theme of fundamental importance for europe and the entire planet. as a lombard, i am glad that it is taking place in my city and in italy, because that is where the mediterranean diet, which has been declared an intangible cultural heritage of humanity, was born. feeding the planet is one of the most important challenges we face. it is necessary to take all the necessary measures now to ensure food safety, including from the point of view of production and supply. i believe that food safety cannot exist without good labelling rules, which the european parliament has clearly endorsed, and also the traceability of products, which not only allows consumers to know what they are eating and what they are buying, but in a competitive market has a leverage effect by raising the quality levels of the products. i ask the commission to make the best use of expo milano and all that this universal exhibition will be able to bring to light to contribute to the improvement of the lives not only of europeans but of all citizens. i would like to conclude with an appeal: milan is a city today, it is a city where there will be many anti-expo demonstrations and it is right to demonstrate and express one's idea, but i already condemn those who will express these ideas with violence because this is not democracy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, too often we hear of expo as just a big exhibition, an opportunity for promotion, especially for tourists. expo 2015 is also this but it is above all a political moment to discuss without hypocrisy the big issues related to food. we must dare to discuss seriously the issues of inequality in the distribution of resources, which leads to malnutrition on the one hand and obesity and food waste on the other, the relations between the north and the south of the world, we have spoken a lot about this in recent days, the fact that politics must take back the direction that is too often left in the hands of the multinationals, the creation of an ever stronger pact between producers, distributors and consumers, the defence of biodiversity as a priority to guarantee a future without hunger for all. as members of our group on the committee on fisheries, we also wanted to stress the sustainability of fish harvesting and farming and the need to combat overfishing and illegal fishing globally.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for years in italy there has been a criminal system which uses or invents events, great works, to fuel one of the greatest corruption machines in the world. expo in milan, like mose in venice or the turin-lyon, is part of this logic. the italian judiciary has already sanctioned through trials and condemned the existence around expo of a political-industrial dome with strong mafia ties that inflated costs and illegally oriented the contracts. to cite the expo as an example of transparency, as is done in the report, therefore, sounds rather sarcastic. this expo has betrayed the principles on which it was founded: it's proposing to fight the harms of poor nutrition like obesity and it's touting partnerships with coca-cola, mcdonald's and nestlé, which would be like calling a world peace conference funded by lockheed. it designs scenarios of sustainable economies and exploits the underpaid or free work of thousands of young people. my city, milan, didn't need this show of hypocrisy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, expo 2015 in milan has been the display of contradictions. while the promotion of organic farming is being made on the lips, gmos are increasingly being used, especially in developing countries. the short chain, the zero kilometre, should be favoured, but in our cities there are a proliferation of large shopping centres which devastate local economies and choke off small farmers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not affected by the pollution of the sea. the same land where expo stands today was once agricultural and was quickly converted into a building site. and finally, the most glaring contradiction: the lack of any reference in the charter of milan to the issue of international financial speculation on raw materials and the phenomenon of land grabbing, as if these issues were not strictly related to food. it is an expo that has international corporations like coca-cola and mcdonald's among its sponsors, an expo that instrumentalizes an important topic like that of nutrition to speculate and carry out mere greenwashing operations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, expo milano will not only be an extraordinary showcase for italy and europe, but also an opportunity to address vital issues such as the fight against food waste, such as food education focused on balanced and balanced diets and lifestyles, because we have heard that malnutrition does not only come from the lack of food which unfortunately still causes millions of deaths, but also from the abundance of food. i also hope that this is a time to step up the fight against food fraud, a priority to protect our food heritage which has unparalleled economic and cultural value for the whole of europe. but i would like to say to those who contest this expo: look at what will be an extraordinary opportunity, for six months, of people meeting, i think of the clusters of the less rich countries that will proudly present their products, the nepal pavilion that will probably be unfinished and beautiful and that i would like to erect in some way as a symbol of this collaboration between people to overcome challenges, but together. enough with the damaging criticism!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am a european citizen from milan and i look forward to this event with great enthusiasm. but we want the expo to leave a moral and political legacy to the international community, new commitments and new concrete objectives to be achieved in order to be up to this great scenario, to be objectively capable of assuming these commitments, as it is written in the milan charter which is still open and which we can fill with content. the european union, commissioner, must be at the forefront and the first objective, and i will list them briefly. we have the opportunity to define the post-millennium objectives, but the fight against malnutrition must become a priority, the fight against hunger in all its forms - i am thinking of the so-called hidden hunger phenomenon - and then we must work for the affirmation of a right to food as a legally guaranteed right. to make food, we need land, water and energy. on the ground we want the european union to be at the forefront of defining the rules to fight land grabbing, we always talk about it with some embarrassment. we want to work for water, which must be part of the objectives of cooperation, and for energy, which must be available and accessible.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that one of the most alarming issues in our society is the so-called food paradox. we live in a world where 800 million people are undernourished, while over 2 billion are overweight or obese. for every person who is hungry, there are two obese or overweight people. if we add to this the fact that over 1 billion tons of edible food is wasted every year, a third of the world's food production and four times the amount needed to feed 800 million undernourished people, we realize that this situation can no longer be tolerated. i hope that expo 2015 will be able to spark a permanent reflection on these issues and to encourage the national and european institutions to take concrete action in this regard. i believe that the commission should promote a culture of prevention around the role of food, to curb the increase in obesity, and at the same time, in order to reduce the unacceptable food waste, measures are needed to improve the food chain in terms of resource efficiency, with particular reference to production and distribution, and to encourage businesses and retailers to improve their coordination.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like first of all to thank mr de castro for this motion for a resolution, but also and above all to remind you that the subject we are discussing is an important one. we must produce more while preserving the environment, we must improve the quality of the environment by increasing the overall level of production. that is the challenge we face. the world population is growing, consumption is increasing, and the type of consumption is also increasing, with much higher consumption in terms of agricultural production, and this is bringing with it a great deal of environmental pressure. expo will be an exceptional opportunity for scientific comparison between different cultures to be able to come to a conclusion, to be able to come to a recipe for the future and this we hope that we can do in the next few months of work at expo.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would say that it is enough to mention mcdonald's, coca-cola or nestlé to make it clear that expo is a showcase for feeding the multinationals and certainly not the planet. it's a showcase for whoever controls the world's food supply and produces that globalized food that causes both hunger and obesity. expo is a showcase for a history of corruption, contracting and mafia infiltration. expo is a showcase for a model of exploitation, precariousness and free work and it is shameful, mr president, that the european parliament endorses all this with its institutional presence. i would like to tell mr comi, who was recently alarmed by the destructive demonstrations, that i will be taking part in the no expo demonstration on 1 may tomorrow, together with the unemployed who want to celebrate may day with the activists of the commons, with many citizens. the same thing is happening now as in the days of genoa. i'll be with whoever that ugly expo window symbolically wants to break.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the last speech was a real blow to the head. are these the people who should be helping the world develop? but that they would go to a deserted island and stay there forever, talking about their last colleague. as regards the expo, i would like to thank the current president of the lombardy region, roberto maroni, for what he has done for those who had the foresight to choose expo and milan years ago and who were able to obtain the nomination and it is a very important showcase for all of us. but i wanted to ask a question in essence: but since we always talk about sustainable agriculture, for example when we go and ask for an orange tree (i went to the bar earlier for an orange tree) but there is not even an orange inside an orange tree, that is, if we want sustainable agriculture we must also make sure that the fruits, instead of being destroyed as happens very often around the world and also in italy, are used instead to produce exactly what is needed. so the orange that has at least one orange, that would be a great opportunity.
member of the commission.– madam president, the commission welcomes the draft resolution. the european union policies respond to a number of points raised. the common agricultural policy, for example, provides a comprehensive and inclusive support framework for the sustainable production of food. the strength of european agriculture is based on its diversity, its capacity to add value and its ability to adapt. these are the values we need to promote in order to meet the demands of food security in the wake of scarce resources. in that context, the commission would encourage further reflection and discussion on some points of this resolution, particularly in relation to the proposed focus on specific agriculture models. as already explained in my opening remarks, the commission is committed to supporting member states and stakeholders in strengthening resource efficiency in the food chain and preventing and reducing food waste from farm to fork. it is also clear that member states need to play a key role in the issues of nutrition and physical activity. the commission agrees, and strongly supports additional cooperation between them so as to improve some of the trends mentioned in the resolution, particularly by promoting healthy diets and lifestyles. i also would like to wish all participants great success in tomorrow’s opening of expo milano.
in writing. the resolution is a detailed manifesto of the main 'key issues' in the agri-food sector. the main "political" issues concerning food and its agricultural production are mentioned, without however ever going too far into the substance. several unknowns remain about expo, starting with how well it will be able to respond to the "real" theme, namely to chart a path for a sustainable response to the theme of food supply, towards which innovation is urgently needed from the agricultural and agro-industrial supply chain. the imbalances between the various actors in the food chain and the access to food of the people of developing countries should be some of the issues to be tackled with great seriousness. this is the direction in which the european parliament should be moving.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a phytosanitary emergency affecting olive trees in a part of the apulia region and which is of concern to the whole of europe. the spread of the quarantine pathogen xylella fastidiosa, subspecies pauca, is endangering apulian olive growing and has dramatic economic, environmental and social consequences. the european parliament, through the committee on agriculture, therefore immediately took the initiative of wanting to discuss the matter in this house, to express its concerns and to ask the commission for clarifications. in the meantime, just this week, the european commission's committee on plant health voted a decision which clarifies in part some of the issues we have raised. firstly, it shows that the xylella problem is a european problem and must be tackled by european decisions and not by national decisions. the first decision, which we welcome, is the ban on the import of coffee ornamental plants from costa rica and honduras. this shows that it is now clear that the source of entry of xylella subsp. pauca into europe was precisely that type of plant from those countries, as confirmed by the finding of these infected plants also in france. the real problem we have to consider is the need for stricter controls on imports of plant material from third countries, including for other types of diseases. we therefore ask the commission for its views on this matter. the commission's decision also takes strict measures which, while avoiding total eradication in the already infected area, which would not only be unnecessary but above all dramatic for an entire territory, its landscape, its economy and its rural environment, on the other hand, in order to block new outbreaks, it also requires, in compliance with international standards on quarantine pathogens, the eradication of certain healthy plants outside the aforementioned infected area (i.e. outside the province of lecce, for example). the two problems which the commission's decision does not solve and on which we would like to hear more commitments today are those of research and compensation to farmers. first, we need to continue to study this bacterium, which we don't know much about yet, and the possibility that we have of eradicating it. we need more public funds for this, and above all, mr president and commissioner, we need them as quickly as possible, as quickly as the spread of this bacterium can be. farmers, for their part, bear no responsibility for the spread of this pathogen, but suffer both the direct damage and the costs of implementing the measures necessary to contain the disease. that is why we are here today to ask the commission what compensatory measures it intends to give to the farmers who are the real victims of this annoying xylella.
i think that the commissioner has no idea what the material, symbolic and cultural consequences of the decision that has been taken will be on the landscape, the ecosystem and the lives of thousands of women and men. this is not just about compensation, it is about a devastated landscape, a devastated economy. on 1 april i tabled a question asking whether there were any possible causes for what is happening and alternative solutions to the eradication of pesticides. efsa has made it clear that the possible causes must be investigated, that eradication is not the answer, that pesticides would be devastating to the ecosystem. now, i ask why all this is being ignored, it was ignored by the silletti plan, it was also ignored by yesterday's decision, that is to say, a solution is being produced which will certainly cause damage and very little will certainly be the solution. i wonder if we should not defend our olive groves not only from the scourge of xylella or other concauses, but also from the scourge of this decision of the european union.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after a careful reading of the new implementing decision, we take note of the belated decision to ban the import of coffee plants and to impose strict conditions on the import into the european union of as many as 188 plants susceptible to xylella fastidiosa. congratulations on your timing. but in the meantime, half of apulia will be desertified or poisoned. yes, because in addition to the theoretically reduced eradication measures, there is still a massive use of pesticides, which we denounced in an oral question circulated to members, which took into account the appeals of the who and unep. the second report by the efsa itself takes a very clear position against the widespread use of pesticides. i would ask the commission to reconsider its position and to consider directive 128/2009/ec, which provides for the priority development of organic farming and the use of all alternatives to regularly registered chemical pesticides, in accordance with the precautionary principle of the right to health. it is a decision that has not been shared but has been made from above and that does not take into account the consequences for the environment and the health of the population. we cannot accept that our territory is being violated and we expect the european commission to verify the real applicability of the measures and to support research and field trials programmes and to help farmers to implement good agricultural practice. we continue our fight, we do not stop. i have therefore invited some members of parliament from the countries most exposed to contagion, academic experts and organisations in the sector, to a round table to find together common solutions to be proposed to the commission. this is to deal with this emergency in full respect of european agriculture and the health of its citizens. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue-card question. the implementing decision provides for treatments, they call them plant protection products, they are actually pesticides both on plants to be eradicated before they are eradicated and on plants to be exported. the silletti plan, named after the commissioner, already provided for the use of as many as seven active substances, two of which are considered harmful to health by the italian minister of health himself. efsa itself, not the five star movement, advises against the use of pesticides on a large scale precisely because they have consequences on the food chain, on health, on the economy of our agriculture.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i believe as a technician that plant health measures are necessary, perhaps too drastic. there is an area that is an infected area, there is an expansion area in apulia that we need to focus our attention on. perhaps the scale of the intervention should be revised a little, but i agree that the area of expansion should be the focus of our activities, but there is one theme that should be emphasized, and that is research. we have a few things that are still unclear and it is certainly not with horizon 2020 that we will solve the problem. as you know, horizon 2020 has a procedure, it has selective calls, it has deadlines, we need instead quick, much shorter research answers and the commission can act in this to give answers and certainty in some directions that are needed. we need to know in a short time what the probability is that xylella, this strain, will infect certain ornamental plants or fruit plants in particular, we are talking about citrus, we are talking about vines, because only by having certain information can we of course set up measures. there is another aspect to this story and others that the commission is well aware of. it's the border controls. we cannot continue to have plant health borders which are a nuisance because we cannot continue to have them, our farmers do not deserve them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to express my appreciation. a new channel of dialogue is being opened, a sign of the regional government's attention to the mobilisation of the territory, which summarises the concerns of the business system, associationism and trade unions. the loss of a few million working days cannot but be at the top of our concerns. at a particular time of economic crisis, it seems to us that the attention of politics and institutions towards two sectors - agriculture and the tourist industry - which must continue to be the driving force in the direction of a vision of growth that europe wants to be sustainable from an environmental and social point of view, is not irrelevant. the measures announced find a new balance in a vision capable of protecting the entire olive heritage of apulia, thus guaranteeing enterprise and employment. we would appreciate it, commissioner, if you would renew your commitment to research aimed at preventing and treating the pathogen in question, without losing sight of the priority objective of protecting human health.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of such a serious problem as that of xylella fastidiosa in puglia, we are all called upon to have a great sense of responsibility. public health, local economic interests and the very identity of the territory are at stake. the technical committee proposes a solution that is less rigid than we thought, but it is still a drastic measure that would create incalculable damage, agricultural damage, food damage, historical, cultural, touristic, commercial damage, in short, it would put puglia, a beautiful region, "k.o". we are not technicians, i am not a technician at all, and so we ask science and research to find solutions that are alternative to total eradication. we need to act quickly, and then, once we've solved the problem, we'll analyze who created or facilitated this contagion: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. no eu country can block imports of healthy apulian products on its own merely for fear of xylella, and it is the european commission's responsibility to block the circulation of infected products. i therefore ask the commission to mobilise all the resources necessary to compensate olive-growers not only for the damage they have suffered and the loss of profits, but also for the community and for the environmental, cultural and tourist damage. we have to hurry, we don't have much time.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the standing committee on plant health, meeting in brussels this week, decided to adopt drastic measures for olive groves affected by xylella fastidiosa. in some areas of puglia, not only sick olive trees but also plants within a hundred meters of them will have to be eradicated. i think that this decision should be better assessed, taking into account the olive-growing, environmental and economic heritage of puglia. i welcome the fact that italy has adopted a decree-law on access to the solidarity fund, and i expect the european commission to verify on an ad hoc basis the real applicability of the measures, which, if confirmed, will absolutely have to be accompanied by compensation for the damage to farmers. the commission will therefore also rapidly assess italian requests for economic support to agricultural producers and review european legislation which at present does not allow compensation to farmers for the felling of affected trees. i regret the slow response of the european union and ask the commission to review the plant health regime for trade in plants. directive 2000/29/ec is in fact totally ineffective and inadequate. finally, a reply to mr bové, since a strain of the bacterium has also been detected in france, what are we to do? do we also block all imports from france? the solution must be european.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on 3 april france effectively imposed an embargo on 102 agricultural products from apulia which it considers to be infected with xylella, not the products from the infected area but those from the whole region. our farmers are in a difficult situation, but what is the commission doing? it is accepting impassionedly yet another restriction on free movement, and france has set a good example. since that day, morocco and algeria have followed suit. until proven otherwise, commissioner, france is part of the single market and morocco has signed a free trade agreement with us, literally filling us with cheap agricultural products. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. while the farmers of apulia are waiting for real answers, the risk that other countries will follow france's example is very high and the commission's inaction, mr commissioner, is simply unacceptable.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is an ecological and economic disaster. what everyone said was that we should not leave farmers alone and try to make up for this lack which is really becoming, as we said, a kind of ebola and this is what europe must do. but i also take inspiration from this speech to say that just a few minutes ago (before we talked about expo) there are the antagonists who have already arrived in milan and have already written on the windows, they are making a mess in the center of milan. those people are the scum of society and they must be arrested and earlier a representative of tsipras spoke saying that a deputy was walking near them. you should be ashamed of yourself, too, because you might be sneaking into mcdonald's or drinking coke. this is the rubbish of europe that we have elements in here who help criminals, criminals and then they do demagogy here, then they secretly drink coca-cola and eat mcdonald's hamburgers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's decision by the eu plant health committee to eradicate diseased trees in the infected areas of all host plants within a two-kilometre radius, as an apulian, did not make me happy, but it is an extreme remedy for an absolute evil. i ask the commission to speed up the measures to help apulian farmers and to take on the financial burden of safeguarding farmers at risk and the olive oil chain. in a region already in the throes of the economic crisis, it is unacceptable to eradicate olive trees and lose almost 7 000 jobs without a rescue plan. the damage to the integrity of our natural heritage and to the dignity of those farmers who watch the felling of their own trees, which they cultivate with the same love with which they raise their children. no, commissioner, apulia and the apulian people do not deserve to be abandoned! it is time for europe to prove that it is close to the problems of its citizens, and this parliament has shown that it is united because colleagues from all the countries of the european union have spoken.
in writing. we are facing a real phytosanitary emergency which is now affecting olive groves in southern italy, but which could potentially spread to other crops and regions in europe. the size is particularly worrying in terms of economic, environmental and social consequences. unfortunately, scientific research is lagging behind both in analyzing the triggers and in finding possible solutions or remedies to the emergency. the eradication plan put in place by the european commission has, as a precaution, ordered the destruction of millions of olive trees in the hope of stopping the spread of the bacteria to other regions or crops. in support of this painful decision, we have the opinion of efsa, which says that the destruction of trees is a valid choice once the disease has been detected as present in a certain area, precisely circumscribed. we cannot, however, fail to share the deep concern of the producers and the people concerned. we therefore call on the commission to provide for adequate and immediate compensation for economic losses to producers and for stricter plant health control measures to be adopted on imports into the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, just to give you the sad news that father gruner, who brought to our parliament the blessed statue of our lady of fatima, founder of the world apostolate of fatima, has passed away in canada this evening. a thought and a prayer in memory of this great man of prayer and peace.
in writing. ‒ the alcohol strategy adopted at this april session will serve as a guideline for the european commission's future policy on alcoholic beverages. our delegation has been very sensitive and attentive to the issues affecting european consumers since the beginning of the legislature. we believe that this strategy can help consumers to obtain more information about alcoholic beverages through the labelling of the calories contained in them. other important topics covered in the text are: the collection of data on alcohol consumption, the online sale of alcoholic products and the advertising of alcoholic beverages to minors, alcohol consumption during pregnancy and binge drinking, i.e. the consumption of more alcoholic beverages by very young people in a short period of time. we believe that this strategy can help our country even more in controlling the intake of quality alcoholic beverages. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i did not intend to support this resolution which specifically calls for nutritional labelling for all alcohol. i believe that such a structured proposal favours standardised producers at the expense of our quality products protected by geographical indications. i also believe that this text deliberately ignores the cultural value of moderate and responsible consumption of alcoholic beverages such as wine throughout europe, but especially in italy. as with all things, the problem is not in use, but in abuse.
in writing. ‒ i voted yes to this motion for a resolution because alcohol consumption in europe is an issue that should be dealt with and a european alcohol strategy is probably the best way to do that. nonetheless i strongly recommend that we also take into account the peculiarities of each member state, since the relevance of alcohol abuse and alcohol-related problems vary greatly from one country to another.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopts a clear and distinct position on the alcohol strategy in the member states to address concerns about the misuse, unmoderate and irresponsible use of alcoholic beverages. there is no denying that harmful use of alcohol is still a cause of preventable death and a risk factor for many chronic diseases. however, an alcohol strategy in europe cannot ignore the excellence of many alcoholic beverages which are the envy of the world and which make up a large part of european exports to third countries. i am thinking of the quantity of wines and spirits with pgi, pdo and docg which, in my own country alone, enrich the cultural and historical heritage of each region and whose high quality and importance cannot be called into question, but must be protected and promoted. an alcohol strategy in europe must therefore take into account the prevention of alcohol-related diseases, but it cannot underestimate the importance and value of the agri-food sector linked to the production of alcoholic beverages. we cannot risk demonizing alcohol consumption at the expense of the cultural and socioeconomic heritage linked to wine production in many member states.
in writing. - my vote was negative. the resolution specifically calls for nutritional labelling for all alcoholics. this highly managerial and ethical approach is to be rejected for several reasons, not least because it ignores the cultural value that the (moderate and responsible) consumption of alcoholic beverages such as wine has in some european countries (italy above all). furthermore, nutrition labelling presupposes that the alcoholic beverage is consumed for food purposes, whereas today it is commonly understood as pleasure and proof of connection with the territory. this measure will ultimately benefit the large producers at the expense of the small ones.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of a new eu alcohol strategy. in europe, more than 7% of premature deaths are due to alcohol-related problems. twenty-five percent of young men between the ages of 15 and 29 lose their lives because of drinking too much. the commission must therefore start work on the new eu alcohol strategy (2016-2022) as soon as possible in order to add value to national policies. more can be done against drunk driving, effective data collection on alcohol consumption in all member states is needed, action is needed on alcohol advertising to minors, on alcohol consumption in pregnancy and on binge drinking which is increasingly taking hold among adolescents. however, a good compromise must also be found between the positions of countries such as great britain, where alcohol abuse is a serious problem of public health and order, and countries such as italy and belgium, where there is a real culture of the consumption of quality wine and beer. the aim of the strategy is not to discourage moderate consumption but to support the adoption of healthy lifestyles.
in writing. ‒ alcohol consumption and related harm is a topic within the eu strategy to coordinate national governments' efforts to reduce alcohol consumption and alcohol-related diseases. the eu alcohol and health information system (eusah) monitors these trends and developments. however, what needs to be considered in implementing this strategy is the control by labelling of the ingredients and nutritional values of alcoholic beverages, ensuring a more transparent and fair service to the consumer.
in writing. ‒ as a co-sponsor, i have followed this resolution very closely. i think that the text is a good compromise, given the focus on small producers and the cultural distinction between northern and southern european practices. i am a little sceptical about some aspects, such as labelling, because i believe that education is much more important, but i am satisfied that i have managed to include in the text important reminders also for the promotion of alcoholic products (in particular wine) in the context of the promotion of the territory and its culture.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on a strategy on the consumption of alcoholic beverages, considering that a serious commitment by the european union to combat alcohol abuse, alongside the member states and in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity, is all the more appropriate. alcohol consumption is the third leading cause of death in europe, a risk factor for 60 chronic diseases, including cancer and obesity, or circulatory and liver problems. furthermore, alcoholism can also have negative consequences on the family and work spheres of those affected, and is also the cause of relational and social problems. i therefore support this resolution. i hope that the european commission will soon draw up a new strategy, including the setting of specific objectives and the annual evaluation of the results achieved, which will help the member states to reduce the health, safety and socio-economic problems caused by alcohol abuse.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that every effort should be made to help national governments reduce the harm caused by alcohol. in addition, we must make everyone aware of the need to reduce alcohol consumption, especially among young people, by preventing their drinking, especially in large quantities, for the sole purpose of losing control of themselves.
in writing. alcohol abuse kills more than 3 million people worldwide every year, is also the cause of one in four road traffic accidents and cost europe €155.8 billion in direct and indirect social costs in 2010 alone. i therefore vote in favour of this text, which makes it clear that alcohol is a serious problem which europe must tackle with a strategy which is not afraid to go against the private interests of the industries in this sector. for example, as proposed in the text, it is necessary first of all to invest in advertising campaigns to raise awareness of the most vulnerable groups, who are now the target of messages that encourage the consumption of alcohol. it is also appropriate to refer to a rethinking of the functioning of the european alcohol and health forum, so that it becomes a representative place for all stakeholders, from economic operators to ngos, to work together on effective and concrete actions to reduce the harm caused by alcohol abuse. finally, the text rightly calls on the commission to produce as soon as possible the report on the need to label the ingredients and nutritional values of alcoholic beverages, as provided for in regulation (eu) no 1169/2011.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the resolution which specifically calls for nutrition labelling for all alcohol. this highly managerial and ethical approach must be rejected at the root. it ignores the cultural significance of the consumption of alcoholic beverages, which is of course moderate and responsible, throughout europe.
in writing. ‒ the epp's work has helped us to prevent this strategy from being reduced to sterile prohibitionism, and to propose an effective action plan that makes a clear distinction between alcohol abuse, which must be tackled without hesitation, and moderate consumption, which in no way constitutes a risk factor for health. in this way we have both protected the health of our citizens and safeguarded the excellence of italian wine.
in writing. harmful alcohol use is responsible for the deaths of 3.3 million people worldwide, 25% of whom are aged between 20 and 39, and is the second leading cause of major chronic diseases such as obesity, heart disease and liver disease. in order to deal with a phenomenon of such alarming proportions, i welcome and support the proposal to launch as soon as possible a new european alcohol strategy 2016/2022, which will support the who european action plan 2012-2020 against the risks of alcohol abuse and strengthen the union's commitment to fighting such a difficult battle, using all the instruments at our disposal: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i also hope that the new european alcohol strategy will lead to a significant reduction in the number of children exposed to serious distress in families that abuse them and that their well-being, like that of all other children, will be adequately protected, as specified in the un declaration of the rights of the child, which was adopted and has become one of the priority values that the union promotes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the alcohol strategy. this is a very important issue, given the prevalence and abuse of alcohol in europe, especially among very young people and women. alcohol is the second leading cause of lifestyle-related disease and is a risk factor for over 60 chronic diseases, including liver disease, pancreatitis, diabetes, obesity and heart disease. alcohol also causes mental and behavioral disorders. it causes the death of 3.3 million people worldwide, with very high percentages among young people, and it generates serious social costs for member states. phenomena such as binge drinking by the very young, or the massive abuse of alcohol by pregnant women, must be stopped: in fact, too many children live in families with alcohol problems. i fully support the call on the commission to develop a new eu alcohol strategy with the objectives of supporting national efforts in prevention, data collection, education and early diagnosis. member states must do more to inform and educate citizens about the afterlife risks of alcohol abuse by putting in place effective education policies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution calling on the european commission to present a new alcohol strategy by the end of 2016. in view of the necessary distinction between responsible use and consumption of alcohol and harmful and therefore dangerous use of alcohol, our requests have focused on combating the harm caused by alcohol abuse. we therefore ask the commission to consider the effects of new labels containing information on the risks of drunk driving and drinking during pregnancy or for minors and the consequences on consumer habits of any indication on the label of the ingredients and nutritional aspects of the alcoholic beverage.
in writing. ‒ the eu alcohol strategy aims to help national governments deal with alcohol-related harm. alcohol abuse is the second leading cause of lifestyle-related illness. each year, such abuse causes the death of about 3.3 million people worldwide, 25 percent of whom are in the 20-39 age group. alcohol dependence is also a risk factor for over 60 chronic diseases, heart disease, liver disease and cancers, and frequent consumption of significant amounts can lead to addiction. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, through this resolution, asks the commission to promote a proposal aimed at introducing calorie labelling for alcoholic beverages by 2016. at the same time, my colleagues and i are calling for a new european alcohol strategy, which focuses on the problem of underage drinking and proposes that information on the risks of drunk driving and drinking alcohol during pregnancy be included on product labels. i share the content and purpose of this document and have therefore decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ we call on the commission to review existing european legislation, stressing the need to ensure clear and effective information on the effects of alcohol consumption and health risks. in some member states, alcohol abuse is the second leading cause of lifestyle-related disease and is a risk factor for over 60 chronic diseases. we believe that education, information and prevention campaigns are essential tools in preventing excessive alcohol consumption by young people. the commission should therefore start to define a new strategy, while promoting appropriate awareness campaigns on moderate and responsible consumption of alcoholic beverages. we call on the commission to consider the adoption of an eu labelling system warning consumers of the dangers of the abuse of strong alcoholic beverages; we call on the commission, together with the member states, to develop appropriate strategies to step up controls to tackle the problem of counterfeit alcoholic beverages and the illegal and clandestine sale of alcohol, with particularly negative effects on the most disadvantaged social groups and on young people, and to protect geographical indications within the eu and worldwide through international trade agreements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which will guide the european commission's work on this issue for the next seven years. the ppe has succeeded in getting article 23 rewritten, which was aimed at introducing a 'minimum price' which would be the same for all eu countries, i.e. an excise duty like that on cigarettes which, in addition to penalizing our producers with a higher tax burden, would have the effect of equating wine with tobacco, with the possibility of having repercussions in the future also in terms of labelling. the final vote in plenary has resulted in the amendment of two other important points. firstly, the blocking of the introduction of a minimum age for the purchase of alcoholic beverages throughout europe, which was set at 21 years. each state will therefore continue to decide for itself (in italy, for example, it is 18 years). secondly, we have removed from the text of the resolution the prohibition on using public funds to promote alcoholic beverages, and therefore wine. if this concept had been abandoned, we would no longer have been able to use european funds for the promotion of agricultural products, which have been and remain indispensable in making the excellence of 'made in italy' known throughout the world.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the alcohol strategy because i believe that it is essential to develop a coordinated policy on alcohol at european level. europe is one of the leading producers of excellence in this field and responsible alcohol consumption is not incompatible with a healthy lifestyle. however, due to the lack of an adequate information campaign on the health risks of excessive alcohol consumption and the inadequacy of preventive and control measures, more than 3 million people die each year from alcohol-related causes. about one in four road accidents is caused by drunken driving, and youths are the hardest hit. it is important that the commission develops a new european strategy to support and strengthen the who action plan on this issue for the period 2012-2020. national governments must be supported in this fight and more cooperation at european level is needed. alcohol dependence is a serious problem and member states must be able to ensure adequate access to treatment and active support for those affected and their families.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on an alcohol strategy, which calls on the commission to immediately begin work on a new eu alcohol strategy to assist member states in dealing with alcohol abuse. the commission has to evaluate whether the requirement to provide consumers with information on ingredients and nutritional content should apply to alcoholic beverages. the related report was due by the end of 2014, but we are still waiting for it. i agree with the importance of providing clear information to consumers on the ingredients and the content of the products they buy. whether the discussion is about meat or about alcohol, it does not change the basic fact that consumers have the right to be informed, and meps have the duty to fight for their right to be heard. however, i am conscious of the need to select what information to include in a label, so that consumers are not confused by the amount of data and producers do not have to pay excessive costs. my votes on the amendments reflect these complexities in the aim of finding a balance between the needs of the consumers and the needs of the producers.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the resolution on alcohol, the fact that there are initiatives by the commission and the member states to show european citizens the health effects of harmful alcohol consumption and to promote moderate and responsible consumption of alcoholic beverages. i hope that the commission will work hard on the new eu alcohol strategy and that the same objectives will be met, but with the regulatory framework updated in conjunction with national governments, the harmful effects of excessive consumption addressed and the information campaign brought to the attention of the widest possible audience. member states must be strict in enforcing the law and existing legislation must be respected, particularly as regards the age limits for alcohol consumption and the assessment of the need for additional binding legal requirements to ensure effective protection of minors.
in writing. ‒ with this resolution we asked the european commission to adopt an alcohol strategy, taking steps to encourage coordination between stakeholders. because if it is true that excessive alcohol consumption is the third cause of death and preventable diseases in europe, it is also true that we must distinguish between the use and abuse of alcohol, just as we cannot forget that it is right to diversify the treatment of this matter. each country has its own culture and its own specificities and for this reason it is not possible to demand a repressive policy which is the same for all, since this would go against the specific characteristics of each country and could also create economic damage for those states where alcohol production is among the most economically productive.
in writing. i decided to vote against because the resolution, in its nodal part, expressly calls for nutritional labelling for all alcohol. this markedly managerial and ethical approach is to be rejected at its root for several reasons, not least because it ignores the cultural value that the moderate and responsible consumption of alcoholic beverages is of course all over europe. in addition, the nutrition labelling presupposes that the alcoholic beverage is consumed with food. fortunately, the days of drinking wine or beer as a real food and energy supplement to poor diets are long gone. today, the alcoholic beverage is commonly understood as a pleasure, as evidenced by the production and consumption of wine, which has decreased in quantity in favor of quality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution to call on the commission to start work immediately on the european alcohol strategy (2016-2022) in order to help national governments reduce the harm caused by alcohol abuse. i would remind you that in europe every year excessive alcohol consumption is the direct and indirect cause of 3.3 million premature deaths from road accidents, acts of violence or liver disease. we are talking about a serious public health problem with a social cost of approximately 155.8 billion euros. in addition, it is estimated that 2% to 4% of children born in europe suffer from various mental disabilities such as learning disabilities, mental retardation, behavioural and psychiatric disorders due to prenatal exposure to alcohol taken during pregnancy. i believe that the priorities of this new strategy should be to raise awareness and to inform consumers, particularly younger ones, about the health, work and driving risks associated with excessive alcohol consumption. i am confident that these types of interventions can improve general awareness and bring positive benefits to public health.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the alcohol strategy. in particular, i supported those amendments which support greater efforts to promote and spread responsible and moderate drinking: the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of information on the use of alcohol in the european union, which will be based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. i voted in favour of amendment no 8, which stresses the lack of legislation laying down labelling requirements for the ingredients used, for the nutritional qualities and for substances used in the production process of wine products such as sugaring, that is, the addition of sugar or other saccharides to must to increase the alcoholic strength and to achieve the minimum gradation required for marketing. this process is seriously damaging to the italian agricultural sector, creating an unfair competition situation, since our wine growers cannot use sugaring. it also harms the public because they cannot distinguish between a wine made from grape must alone and one which has undergone further processing.
in writing. - i voted for the alcohol strategy resolution today. the resolution calls on the commission to present a new strategy to combat the harmful effects of excessive alcohol consumption. i believe that it is more appropriate than ever to develop an organic strategy aimed at preventing the abuse of alcoholic beverages and directed primarily at the younger generations. i find the text adopted particularly appropriate and balanced in that it condemns excessive and abusive consumption of alcohol without criminalising moderate and responsible consumption.
in writing. ‒ i am particularly pleased with the adoption of the resolution on the eu alcohol strategy, which calls on the european commission to come up with a new strategy for the period 2016-2020 as soon as possible. alcohol is one of the main causes of many chronic diseases and tackling alcohol abuse must be a priority for the european institutions. i would like to stress, however, the need to distinguish between alcohol use and abuse, since we cannot deny that responsible consumption of alcohol, and in particular the consumption of certain types of alcohol such as wine, is compatible with a healthy lifestyle. it is essential to find a balance between two opposing needs: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is not penalized for his or her consumption of alcohol. it is also our duty to promote and protect, including with public money, our excellent producers, first of all in the wine sector, since they represent an important sector of our economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of parliament's resolution on the alcohol strategy because i share the balanced position that the house has chosen to maintain on this issue. on the one hand, i agree that consumers should be given more information about the content and quality of alcoholic beverages so that they can make informed choices. on the other hand, however, we must ensure that education on responsible consumption and the fight against abuse are carried out seriously but at the same time with a rational balance. wine is an excellent quality product of our continent and its moderate use is part of the cultural tradition of our society. it is therefore a sector which must be protected and developed.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the resolution under vote. the tragedy of rana plaza is emblematic of a situation that is becoming increasingly intolerable. the rules in force in these countries not only feed the despicable exploitation of these workers, but create an intolerable social dumping against our own. europe is complicit in all this with international rules and agreements which are increasingly pushing european companies to relocate to asia at the expense of our market and the jobs of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the collapse of the rana plaza building was a tragedy and it shows us that much has to be done in order to ensure that workers all over the world are able to work in a safe environment without risking their lives every day on the job. it is our duty to help countries like bangladesh to achieve a higher level of protection of workers’ rights in order to make sure that tragedies like this one do not happen ever again.
in writing. - my vote was in. cases like the one at rana plaza are emblematic of an unsustainable situation. the rules currently in force in these countries mean that social dumping is very high in relation to our workers. the eu is also complicit, with its rules and international agreements, and is encouraging more and more european companies to relocate cheaply to asia, where there are no social and labour protection conditions.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the resolution on the 'second anniversary of the rana plaza building collapse and the state of the sustainability pact' so that tragedies such as the iconic rana plaza, which claimed the lives of 1 138 people, will not happen again. two years have passed and these companies have still not been able to provide adequate funding to compensate the victims of the families of the deceased workers. the rana plaza tragedy was the culmination of a global production system that is no longer able to protect the fundamental rights of people, reduced to mere commodities traded for pennies on the international labour market. we must work to export european standards of workers' rights around the world. while the number of deaths at work is falling in europe, the number of white deaths is still very high in the world, some 2 million people a year, of whom 12 000 are children. europe must also be able to provide its citizens with the tools they need to make responsible choices based on criteria of justice, social equity and solidarity, security and economy.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the amendments tabled by our group have been included in the resolution, in particular the one concerning pressure on clothing companies to make a more substantial contribution to the financial fund for the families of the victims. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it aims to improve working conditions and health and safety in the garment factories in bangladesh. the need for greater protection for workers became apparent following the tragedy of the april 24, 2013 collapse of the "rana plaza" in dhaka, where an 8-storey commercial building, which had been misusing 5 garment factories, collapsed, killing 1,129 workers, mostly women and some minors. i welcome the commitment of the government of bangladesh to re-establish the department of factory and plant inspections, as well as the significant strengthening of its inspection services in january 2014 and the adoption of a national health and safety policy.
in writing. ‒ the rana plaza tragedy, which is now two years old, is just one of many incidents in less developed countries where workers work in total absence of safety standards. although the bangladesh government is not yet in line with international safety standards, some significant progress has been made thanks to the eu sustainability compact, which aims to ensure respect for workers' rights as well as to promote responsible business behaviour in the bangladesh packaging industry. i therefore believe that it is necessary to continue to implement the commitments agreed with the bangladeshi authorities and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ on 24 april 2013, over 1,100 people were killed and thousands injured in the rana plaza building collapse, located in savar, bangladesh. the collapsed building of the rana plaza factory was illegally built and did not meet safety standards. after the disaster, 29 factories were permanently closed due to strong safety concerns, while 17 factories were partially closed. however, a significant number of factories still need to raise their standards to a sufficient level. i am voting in favour of this joint motion for a resolution because i believe that not only local action in bangladesh is needed, but also new legislation at eu level that establishes a legal obligation of corporate human rights due diligence for eu companies outsourcing production to third countries, including binding measures to ensure traceability and transparency through legislation that obliges companies wishing to operate in the european market to carry out due diligence and provide information about the entire supply chain of their products, in line with the un guiding principles on business and human rights.
in writing. ‒ on april 24, 2013, in dhaka, bangladesh, rana plaza collapsed, a building housing clothing companies that were mostly staffed by women. the dead and wounded are very many, victims above all of the failure to respect fundamental standards in the fields of health and safety at work and workers' rights. the resolution, which i voted for with conviction and which i co-signed, is intended first of all to commemorate the more than a thousand victims of that tragedy. it also draws attention to the issue of working conditions in developing countries which often flagrantly violate the most basic international labour rights and trade union freedom conventions and create unfair competition with european producers. bangladesh, like many other developing countries, still has a long way to go to ensure substantial improvements in the health and safety conditions of workers and responsible behaviour by businesses, including foreign ones. the eu will also have to play its part, including ratification of the ilo's core standards, health and safety inspections and freedom of association as preconditions for granting trade preferences.
in writing. ‒ in the rana plaza collapse in bangladesh, 1,129 people died and about 2,515 injured were pulled alive from the rubble. five thousand people, mostly women, worked in the palace, producing clothing for many well-known western brands. it is well known that the conditions under which the workers were forced to work were scandalous, to say the least, both in terms of safety and in economic terms. this exploitation of the workers had one purpose: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. despite the commitment made by companies worldwide, two years after the tragedy, most of the victims have still not been compensated and the situation regarding the safety standards of bangladesh's textile factories remains very critical. the survivors, many of whom are unable to work, are probably the ones paying the highest price today. for these reasons, we have a duty not only to remember and denounce what happened at rana plaza, but also to demand that entrepreneurs who sell their products on the european market respect at least the most basic rules of corporate social responsibility.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the resolution which denounces the labour problems in countries such as bangladesh. but i also denounce the eu, which i believe is complicit in this, with its rules and international agreements which are increasingly encouraging european companies to relocate cheaply to asia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is of fundamental importance that the responsibility of textile companies for the dignity of work be recognised. in this connection, this resolution expressly stresses the need for action to raise wages, intensify inspection activities and generally ensure greater transparency and traceability of products. the european institutions are also called upon to refer to the ilo conventions, especially those relating to the health and safety of workers, when concluding trade agreements with third countries, in order to extend the requirements guaranteeing every citizen the right to decent work.
in writing. ‒ with this resolution, which i am a signatory to, we have wanted to express our closeness to all the families of the victims of the rana plaza disaster and the tazreen fire. these tragedies could easily have been avoided if only basic safety standards had been observed. we welcomed the eu's action, which has become a promoter and part of a pact with the us and the ilo to push bangladesh to ensure the safety of workers, including in collaboration with the industrial sector. we will be watching the bangladesh government's actions. a first step has been taken but it is necessary to ensure that all the actors involved are living up to their commitments.
in writing. i believe that it is necessary to work towards the introduction of new european legislation which cannot do without a deep respect for and protection of the human rights of employed persons in company matters. the dignity of the human person and the right to well-being are fundamental values of the union and we cannot accept that they should be put at risk either in the member states or in third countries where large multinationals operate and trade. that is why i agree and strongly support the motion for a resolution on the second anniversary of the rana plaza building collapse. two years after the tragic accident, i can only welcome the great work that the ilo continues to undertake, together with the government of bangladesh, on new policies to protect the safety and guarantee the human rights of workers, but at the same time i deplore the delays in the full compensation of the families of the victims and the incidents of corruption which unfortunately still contribute to the slowdown in the procedures for fair reimbursement and in good business and administrative practices. i hope that bangladesh and its workers will find an ever easier path towards a sustainable economy and production that respects human dignity, as clearly outlined in the guidelines of the global compact and those of the johannesburg declaration of the united nations.
in writing. commemorating the terrible slaughter of textile workers in bangladesh is a moral duty. we must always remember and emphasize the serious negligence and the complicated working environment that caused such a tragedy, with the awareness, unfortunately, that the conditions of that time have not changed. until bangladesh really raises safety standards and has effective labour legislation including real inspections and freedom of association, workers will always be exposed to very serious dangers. we must also remember the unresolved aspects of that affair. we cannot forget the families of the victims, who have not yet received any compensation for their losses. it's a shame when you think that factory was producing for big clothing brands that certainly have the resources to compensate the victims.
in writing. we still remember the terrible images of april 24, 2013 in bangladesh, where over a thousand people lost their lives. my thoughts today are with those victims more than ever. the geneva compact is a response to the rana plaza tragedy, but i agree with the commission that we need to support improvements in the implementation and development of the sustainability compact, a targeted programme for the labour market in bangladesh promoted and sponsored by the eu, the us and the ilo.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the second anniversary of the rana plaza building collapse and the situation of the stability pact. it was the worst industrial disaster in bangladesh and the deadliest accidental structural collapse in modern history, causing the deaths of over 1,100 people. two years after the building collapse in bangladesh, survivors are still in dire condition. over 60 percent need constant medical care, and one in five have actually gotten worse. and the fashion houses are slow to pay up. the employment figures are also dramatic: more than 55% of the textile workers who were employed in rana plaza are now unemployed and, despite the forms of economic compensation they receive, continue to face serious economic difficulties.
in writing. ‒ in april 2013, the rana plaza, an eight-storey building housing various garment factories in savar, bangladesh, collapsed. the accident resulted in the deaths of over 1,100 people. it was the worst industrial disaster in bangladesh and the deadliest accidental structural failure in modern history. the building that collapsed in the rana plaza complex was built illegally and without adhering to safety standards. i have decided to support this resolution because i believe it is important that the international community should take a strong stand against anyone who does not respect the rights of workers, first and foremost the right to safety.
in writing. ‒ we support this resolution so that the european commission and companies monitor the implementation of the sustainability agreement in bangladesh and continue to work to improve the situation of workers in that country. in fact, over the past two decades, economic growth has helped reduce poverty in bangladesh by almost a third. but today, 31% of the population still live below the poverty line. the ready-to-wear clothing sector is one of the main drivers of economic growth and is the largest exporter, thanks to duty-free access to the european market through the everything but arms (eba) trade preference system. the bangladesh sustainability agreement between the eu, bangladesh, the us and the ilo includes short and long-term commitments on three pillars: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the development of the european union's environmental policy. bangladesh has made a lot of progress since the launch of the agreement, but despite this, workers still see little improvement in their conditions. much remains to be done to consolidate the progress achieved and ensure that real change is sustained in the long term.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to mark the second anniversary of the collapse of rana plaza in savar, a district in the metropolitan area of the capital dhaka, where an 8-storey commercial building housing a bank, shops and, unfairly, 5 clothing factories, collapsed, killing 1 129 workers, mostly women, including some minors. the resolution also calls for a review of progress on the sustainability compact, a joint initiative to improve working conditions, health and safety in bangladesh's garment factories, launched by the eu commission on 8 july 2013. signed in geneva by the commission, the government of bangladesh, the international labour organisation (ilo), representatives of bangladesh's textile producers and the main european clothing importers, the pact is a response to the tragedy of the rana plaza collapse.
in writing. ‒ given the positive assessment of the commission's flagship initiative on responsible supply chain management in the clothing sector, it is considered that the eu has the capacity and the duty to position itself as a global leader in supply chain responsibility. whereas access to information in the clothing sector is often considered to be the main obstacle to the fight against human rights violations in the global supply chain and whereas there is a need for a mandatory reporting system providing information to link all actors in the value chain of an individual product, from the place of production to retailers. whereas it is noted that the important role that workers and trade unions can play, such as the continuing development of worker-led safety committees in all plants, and the importance of access to plants by trade unions, in order to train workers on how to protect their rights and safety, including the right to refuse hazardous work. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i hope that such a serious event as the rana plaza building collapse will never happen again, where more than 1,100 people working in the various garment factories in the building died as a result of the collapse of the structure. we must take decisive action to ensure that priority is given to worker protection, factory safety and health and working conditions in general, also in developing countries. i appreciate the efforts that the government of bangladesh has made since the tragic event to improve both working conditions and the minimum wage. it is good that the stability pact has been launched, which has made a decisive contribution to the implementation of all the commitments and agreements envisaged. i am convinced that the second revision of the stability pact will bring significant results on the structural integrity of buildings, on safety at work and on the responsible conduct of enterprises.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution as i welcome the eu-led initiative to make voluntary donations to the trust fund for compensation to the families of the victims by all parties concerned. i also welcome the initiative to launch the sustainability pact, to ensure a new start in the field of health and safety at work, working conditions and respect for workers' rights, and to promote responsible business behaviour in the packaging industry in bangladesh.
in writing. i decided to vote in favour of this resolution because it was drawn up on the second anniversary of the rana plaza tragedy, a building in bangladesh that housed several companies and in which 1,100 workers died. cases such as the rana plaza collapse are emblematic examples of an unsustainable situation. the eu is also complicit, with its own rules and international agreements which increasingly encourage european companies to relocate cheaply to asia.
in writing. ‒ rana plaza, the building that housed textile factories that collapsed in bangladesh in 2013 causing over 1,100 deaths, represents the true face of globalization: the pursuit of the lowest cost and highest profit by moving production activities to places where workers are underpaid and have no rights. in the case of rana plaza, the desire to cut costs even led to the building's failure to heed the signs of collapse, which then collapsed on itself and on thousands of human lives. the true face of globalization is often hidden from the eyes of the western consumer. i therefore voted in favour of the amendments to explicitly include in the text of the resolution the names of trade marks relating to products manufactured at rana plaza and to include a binding clause on corporate social responsibility in the eu's trade and investment treaties with third countries. i also supported a specific text on the efdd rana plaza, which calls for the eu to set up a pilot project in bangladesh to produce clothes in full respect of human rights and to label these clothes so that european consumers can make informed choices.
madam president, yesterday we heard unacceptable words in the debate in this house, starting with those of president juncker, who spoke of the error of the end of mare nostrum, as if there were no clear responsibility for having determined the end of mare nostrum and the choice of frontex and triton as strategies. now, yesterday we unrolled a very long banner in front of this parliament to remember the names of the victims of the massacres in the mediterranean. we think that a radical change of course is necessary, a radical change of course which unfortunately is not mentioned in the council conclusions or in the resolution adopted yesterday, and of which we note the positive elements which led us to abstain, but at the same time we denounce its total inadequacy. we need a humanitarian corridor, we need a radical change in visa policy, we cannot take the political responsibility for causing more deaths in the mediterranean.
in writing. - i did not intend to support this resolution with my vote. i think that it does not express itself firmly enough in condemning the lack of results at the recent european council summit and i do not agree at all with the call for new 'mare nostrum' style missions, which have proved to have an aggravating effect on the migration crisis rather than a containment or resolution effect.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the joint resolution of the european parliament on the humanitarian crisis linked to migration in the mediterranean. the european parliament is sending a clear message to the commission as it sets its agenda on immigration. two of the resolution's highlights: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the triton programme. the latest dramatic events call for the eu to establish a binding solidarity mechanism in the management of immigration and refugee reception policies. we must also act on the causes of the mass migrations we have seen in recent years. that is why we are calling in the resolution for the eu and its member states to finally coordinate and set out their policies with a view to a long-term foreign policy and cooperation with african and middle eastern countries.
in writing. ‒ i chose to endorse this resolution because it is important that the european institutions act to stop the tragedy that is taking place in the mediterranean sea a few miles off our coasts. the union and the member states should show more resolve in addressing this issue and should also show more solidarity, both among themselves and towards those people who are risking their lives hoping to find a better life on our continent. we must act and we must do it now.
in writing. ‒ migration flows do not stop. the unstoppable will to survive does not subside, even when it costs effort, tears, farewells and abandonment at sea. because those who migrate never do so without a need, especially when migration is ruthless and comes at a very high price, a price as high as life itself, the very one for which one seeks a way of escape. we italians know this well, we too were a people of migrants in a not so distant era to shores that were hardly ever friendly and welcoming. however, today, such phenomena no longer allow for short-sighted and selfish management, today we can no longer pretend not to know, ignore our share of responsibility, because for every man who dies at sea, many more are drowned in the holds. we can't just sit back and watch. the resolution adopted by a large majority in parliament today calls for clear commitments to be made, which must include a fair distribution of asylum seekers and legal forms of immigration. the eu must change the way it thinks about migration policy, because as long as the only possible choice is to escape poverty, dictatorships and violence, these tragedies will not end.
in writing. - my vote was negative. the resolution does not strongly condemn the poor results of the european council on this subject. it calls for more europe and more missions like mare nostrum, which are useless and have proved to attract more and more immigrants and cause more and more deaths.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the report of the extraordinary european council (23 april 2015) on the recent tragedies in the mediterranean and on eu migration and asylum policies. i believe that the european union should make a serious and urgent effort to prevent further loss of life at sea. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution which highlighted parliament's position on the european council of 23 april, welcoming the commitment of the european council to the strengthening of operation triton and the proposal to jointly examine asylum applications with the support of easo (european asylum support office) teams, but also stressing that the failure of the european council to establish a credible and binding eu solidarity mechanism is certainly a missed opportunity. i believe that greater commitment is needed from the member states in this respect.
in writing. ‒ there have always been some voices, including those of the five star movement, desperately calling for action to stop an unprecedented humanitarian catastrophe. i voted in favour of this because europe cannot afford to remain silent.
in writing. - a couple of weeks ago we witnessed, once again helpless, the loss of human lives, too many lives of migrants who hoped and believed they would find a better life in europe. a broken dream, but one we can bring back to life if we can turn words into deeds. the financial aid, although necessary, is not sufficient to deal with what seems to be an endless phenomenon. it is urgently necessary to open humanitarian corridors and to start asylum procedures as soon as possible. as co-legislators with the council, it is time to study all the measures that can create a legislative framework capable of dealing with the difficult situation, given the continuity of migration flows. but we must act quickly. the joint resolution voted today identifies the areas of action to be taken and for these reasons i voted in favour. it's the first step in the right direction. i hope that the commission will soon be able to translate parliament's demands into ambitious, concrete and immediate action.
in writing. ‒ italy is coping with the surge in the flow of migrants from libya alone, but after yet another serious massacre at sea, i once again urge the eu and the other member states to make every effort to implement greater cooperation and thus prevent further loss of life at sea. on 23 april 2015, i attended the epp bureau meeting in milan, where it was agreed that the eu's triton and poseidon operations should be rapidly strengthened, with at least a threefold increase in financial resources, in order to increase the possibilities of dismantling trafficking networks. i voted in favour of the resolution because it aims to identify and destroy vessels before they are used by traffickers and also to bring human traffickers to justice. finally, i believe that the negotiations with libya, under the auspices of the united nations, should be intensified in order to restore the authority of the democratic government in the country, because the creation of regional stability in the conflict zones is essential to preventing further displacement of people.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of this resolution because i believe that the recent tragedies in the mediterranean have shown the urgency with which europe is called upon to address the root causes of one of the most serious humanitarian emergencies of our century. it is more than ever necessary that member states coordinate their policies on the basis of the principle of equitable sharing of responsibilities and that every effort be made to promote dialogue with third countries of transit and origin in order to combat the phenomenon of trafficking in human beings. i also believe it is essential to rethink asylum and immigration policy in such a way as to guarantee legal access to the eu asylum system, respecting the principle of non-refoulement, while encouraging voluntary return by ensuring the protection of migrants' rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the latest tragedies in the mediterranean sea, european migration and asylum policies. i am a firm believer in the need for a european search and rescue operation and i am critical of the council's position to strengthen triton, a border patrol operation at the expense of search and rescue operations at sea. binding quotas are also needed for the distribution of asylum seekers among member states. but above all, we must take concrete action with effective measures, shared and coordinated at european level, and not wait for yet another tragedy to make another resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's joint resolution on the tragic events in the mediterranean last week. this tragedy is yet another sad confirmation that the individual member states of the union cannot cope with the increasing migratory pressure in the mediterranean: the european union as a whole must take responsibility for this grave situation and prevent further tragedies. the decisions of the extraordinary european council of 23 april represent a first significant step towards a real european awareness. of course, much remains to be done. the european parliament will, as on this occasion, continue to exert its strong pressure on the eu council to ensure that europe takes concrete action to create a genuine common european immigration policy which will first of all allow for the adequate handling of emergency situations, by strengthening rescue and search operations with effective coordination between member states and a fair burden-sharing; at the same time, the root and structural causes of migration will need to be tackled, also through an effective eu policy of international cooperation.
in writing. ‒ on 18 april 2015, yet another tragedy occurred in the mediterranean sea: more than 700 migrants have lost their lives trying to reach the italian coast. another reason is that since the beginning of this year alone, more than 1,500 people have died in that stretch of sea. the text identifies several critical points in european policies for managing the flow of migrants. in particular, while eur 9 million was allocated to mare nostrum, an operation that saved 150,810 migrants in one year, only eur 2,9 million was allocated to triton, the new operation launched in november 2014. it is also rightly pointed out that europe as a whole must fight against those who are complaining about the desperation of migrants, but even more importantly, it is the union's duty to try to establish or restore a peaceful situation in the countries of origin. the call for europe to take a holistic approach to the situation and to be able to increase support for its member states which are most affected by the consequences of migration flows is also fundamental, for example with a serious plan for the sharing of asylum seekers. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ i did not consider it particularly ambitious and critical of the insufficient and inadequate conclusions of the extraordinary european council on immigration, but i voted in favour of the resolution. i believe that the priority right now is to save lives and prevent further tragedy. it is essential to support common sense measures. first, a search and rescue operation with sufficient financial, technical and human resources at european level must be set up. if the eu does not extend triton's mandate and scope of action, everything will remain unchanged. we need a holistic approach to the phenomenon that does not ignore its real causes, the safety of migrants and refugees as well as that of european citizens, the protection of fundamental rights, the need for legal and regular channels of immigration. on the basis of the principle of shared solidarity and fair sharing of responsibilities between all member states, mechanisms for the allocation of quotas of those arriving in europe should be identified. equally important are the fight against criminal networks of human traffickers, international cooperation for development and political stability, and monitoring the proper use of the funds allocated to the reception system.
in writing. ‒ the resolution does not strongly condemn the poor results achieved during the extraordinary european council. it insists on calling for missions like mare nostrum, which have however proved to attract even more migrants.
in writing. ‒ the resolution adopted by the european parliament today is a significant step forward compared to the past. the strategy also includes the introduction of compulsory quotas between member states and the implementation of the eu directive on temporary protection for refugees. it is not enough to reform and strengthen triton, it is no longer possible to hide and leave the burden on the shoulders of one or two countries. that is why i voted in favour of today's resolution and why we will continue to do everything we can as the epp group and also personally to ensure that there is finally a radical change of pace from the failed immigration policies of the past.
in writing. the union must respond to the gravity of the ongoing migration emergency. the latest dramatic journeys of hope by desperate men, women and children fleeing war, hunger and poverty in libya to seek safety in europe have already claimed 1,600 lives since the beginning of 2015. i therefore support and welcome with confidence the outcome and commitments made by the eu at the extraordinary summit promoted by the italian government to accelerate plans and strategies in support of the emergency, and i hope that this is only a first step towards new concrete commitments made jointly. a european strategy is needed that leads to a global responsibility that includes not only an economic investment plan but also broader action inspired by the union's founding values, which prioritise the right to well-being and health of the person.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the recent tragedies in the mediterranean and on eu migration and asylum policies. the continuing terrible tragedies in the mediterranean sea, which lead to the death of vulnerable people, women and children fleeing their lands to build their own life projects, generate pain and sorrow and force europe to act with solidarity and strength. i welcome the swift convening of the european summits last week and the decision to triple the resources for the triton mission by involving easo in the examination of asylum applications. but more can and must be done. it is essential to extend triton's range to make it a true search and rescue mission at sea. the eu must base its response on solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility. less indifference, more humanity! we call for a substantial revision of the dublin treaty to allocate asylum seekers among all states, to establish binding quotas for the allocation of asylum seekers among all member states and to create humanitarian channels for legal migration. the european union has a duty to help the countries of the region to develop their economic and social cohesion.
in writing. as you know, i come from sicily, and that is why i can watch the landings on our shores every morning and look at the faces of the immigrants arriving at the ports of my sicily. but that is only the end of a much more adventurous journey, followed by the tragedies to which we are unfortunately accustomed, the last of which caused the death of 900 migrants. the european union cannot stand still. for these reasons i welcomed the decision to convene an extraordinary european council on this subject and the decisions resulting from it, as well as the resolution adopted by this house today. it is clear that this phenomenon affects all the member states equally, not just italy or malta, and that all the member states must therefore take responsibility for it, by means of resources and means and by a mandatory division of the quotas of asylum seekers. we can and must do more and more, because this is the united and united europe we have hoped for and want.
in writing. ‒ the situation in the mediterranean is dramatic. more than 1,500 people have lost their lives in the mediterranean since the beginning of the year. we cannot accept that hundreds of people die trying to cross the sea to europe. it is essential to make every effort to prevent further loss of life at sea and to provide the necessary resources to ensure that search and rescue obligations are respected and thus adequately funded. a comprehensive approach by the european union is needed to strengthen the coherence of internal and external policies, with particular reference to the common foreign and security policy, development policy and migration and asylum policy.
in writing. ‒ it is time for the european union to recognise that there is no short-term solution to the migration phenomenon. only systematic action, based on the fight against human traffickers, on a fair distribution of asylum applications among the member states, on a conscious return policy and on a more rational management of the funds earmarked for international cooperation, could stem what we can no longer call an emergency. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it offers a holistic approach to the problem of migration. i particularly appreciated the reference in the document to the need for some member states to increase their contribution to the definition of a lasting strategy based on a solid distribution of responsibility between countries.
in writing. ‒ in the last two weeks, more than a thousand migrants have died in the waters of the mediterranean. while we welcome the fact that the member states have immediately called an extraordinary summit, we regret that the measures taken are still largely inadequate. we recall the principles of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility, as laid down in article 80 tfeu, and call for new initiatives to be taken in a holistic approach that takes into account all dimensions of the phenomenon, including respect for the rights of migrants and the right to asylum. we call on all member states, including those not directly concerned, to respect the principle of non-refoulement, as provided for in international law. we call on the eu to restore mare nostrum conditions on a european scale, with a search and rescue mandate, with a range of operations of over 170 miles and the dual purpose of rescuing migrants and fighting divers in a systematic way. we call for an immediate revision of the dublin iii regulation to ensure a fair distribution of migrants among all member states and for the rapid transposition and effective implementation of the common european asylum system by all participating states, thus ensuring the common european standards of the existing legislation.
in writing. ‒ finally, president juncker acknowledged that italy had been left alone and that operation mare nostrum, which had been supported by italy alone, should become a european instrument with funding from all member states. but the most important point is to change dublin iii so that there is a real european redistribution of migrants arriving on italian shores. for these reasons, i have decided to support this resolution strongly.
in writing. ‒ whereas over a thousand migrants have lost their lives in the past two weeks and more than 30 000 potential victims in the mediterranean this year, according to estimates by the international organisation for migration (iom), which once again demonstrates the need to do everything possible to save the lives of people in danger and to ensure that member states comply with their international obligations in relation to rescue at sea. whereas i express my deep sorrow and condolences at the tragic loss of life in the mediterranean; i am a citizen of a mediterranean country and represent a constituency directly concerned by this matter, and i can only express my deepest and most sincere concern at the events of recent times. while i appreciate the work of the rapporteurs and the general approach to the subject, i can only express my negative opinion on the way in which certain more specific issues are analysed and dealt with. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ wars, political persecution, hunger and lack of a future are forcing thousands of human beings to leave their homes, their land. these are people who seek protection in our countries and who are instead treated as hostile enemies to be fought. i voted in favour of this resolution because we can no longer tolerate policies of isolation, policies which lack solidarity and in which the responsibility of the member states is not shared. the european union must guarantee protection for those who are persecuted and recognise their right to asylum, which is common throughout europe and which restores dignity to people who see escape through the mediterranean as their only hope of survival. it is our primary task to help them, a common need, beyond political differences, as europe, but above all as the union. the 28 member states therefore need to take care of asylum seekers, whereas at present only five member states deal with 80% of applications. the policy to deal with this emergency must be one of solidarity and european solidarity.
in writing. ‒ as a european and sicilian citizen, i am extremely saddened and concerned by the recent events in the mediterranean and the tragic crossings organised by unscrupulous human traffickers which have caused the deaths of thousands of migrants. europe has behaved in a "pilatesque" manner, leaving italy to face a european emergency alone. but the recent tragedy in the sicilian channel has probably awakened consciousness. i welcome the recent extraordinary council in brussels, the tripling of the appropriations for operations triton and poseidon and the other initiatives that have been taken. we must do more: first, amend dublin iii, in the part where the first-country of arrival is solely responsible for examining asylum applications, by identifying a mechanism of non-optional 'mandatory quotas' of asylum seekers to be allocated to all member states and by speeding up return procedures for migrants who do not meet the criteria for asylum.
in writing. ‒ following yet another tragedy in the mediterranean and the extraordinary european council on this sensitive subject, the european parliament had to intervene and express its thoughts and concerns. the vote in favour of the joint resolution served above all to draw the attention of the individual member states to a subject on which they all agree to find a solution, but there are many disagreements on how to implement a common policy that avoids the continuous landing of poor people who flee their own territory where they do not find guarantees of their essential rights. the most important request we have made to the commission is certainly to set a binding quota for the distribution of asylum seekers among all the member states.
in writing. i have decided to vote against because the resolution does not firmly condemn the poor results achieved at the european council last thursday. it calls for more europe and for missions like mare nostrum, which have proven to attract even more migrants.
in writing. although the joint motion for a resolution did not strongly criticise the conclusions of the extraordinary european council on immigration, i voted in favour of it because it sets a shared direction for the necessary action to be taken at this delicate stage. i am disappointed that the european commission and the member states have not taken adequate action to prevent deaths at sea in response to the humanitarian crisis in the mediterranean. the lack of legal access routes to the eu has also helped to support the criminal networks of human traffickers: it is not enough to impose the strictest possible criminal sanctions, but a comprehensive eu approach to migration that also looks at the root causes of migration is needed. the member states must take the lead in actions based on the principle of shared solidarity and the fair sharing of their responsibilities in managing flows by setting a binding quota for the distribution of asylum seekers among all the states of the union. i hope therefore that every effort will be made to prevent further loss of life at sea and that tragic incidents such as those which have recently occurred will not happen again.
in writing. ‒ since 2000, at least 22 400 people have lost their lives in the mediterranean trying to reach europe, turning the mediterranean into the world's deadliest sea for migrants. the failure of mare nostrum and the joint operation triton shows that everything possible must be done to save the lives of people in danger and that member states must also comply with their international obligations in the matter of rescue at sea. a coordinated approach is more necessary than ever to find a european solution based on solidarity, but also on the fair sharing of responsibility and on a global approach which also has a positive impact on internal security. i do not think that the extraordinary european council of 23 april has produced satisfactory results and i fear that once again countries will be left to face migratory flows which they are not able to manage.
in writing. ‒ i remain critical of the stabilisation and association agreements negotiated by the commission with bosnia and herzegovina and that is why i voted against this measure.
in writing. - i vote against it. i do not share the objective of admitting bosnia to the eu and above all i am critical of the many negative aspects that a possible entry of this country into the eu will entail: the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ in the report i particularly welcomed the amendments to the delegated acts on trade measures which include a clause in favour of the protection of human rights. i also agree to suspend trade agreements with bosnia-herzegovina in the absence of alignment by bosnia-herzegovina with the eu's method of adjusting the interim agreement linking it to the eu.
in writing. ‒ the liberalisation of trade between the eu and the western balkan countries is ensured by a series of stabilisation and association agreements (saas) and an interim agreement (ia) in the case of bosnia and herzegovina. bosnia and herzegovina, like the balkan region as a whole, benefits from autonomous trade measures (atm). however, following the accession of croatia to the european union on 1 july 2013, bosnia and herzegovina has not yet agreed to adapt the interim agreement in order to take into account the preferential traditional trade between croatia and bosnia and herzegovina under the central european free trade agreement (cefta), which bound the two countries before 1 july 2013. after three rounds of negotiations with bosnia and herzegovina, no agreement was reached. in view of this deadlock, the commission proposes that the extension of the autonomous trade measures for bosnia and herzegovina should not be automatic but conditional on acceptance of the method used by the union for the adaptation of the interim agreement. once an agreement on the adjustment of trade concessions has been agreed, signed and provisionally applied by bosnia and herzegovina and the eu, the preferences for bosnia and herzegovina will be re-established. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the amendments proposed to the text amending council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 introducing exceptional trade measures applicable to countries and territories participating in or linked to the european union's stabilisation and association process and suspending its application with regard to bosnia and herzegovina. i am in fact opposed to the amendments tabled by the gue which are intended to amend the text as it has been published in the commission. i agree with the decision to postpone the adoption of the text and to entrust it to a rapporteur to discuss its content with the council and the commission. i am confident that the rapporteur responsible will be able to carry out his work and that the trilogue negotiations will be a success.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe it is important to promote the introduction of trade measures that can facilitate trade between the eu and the balkan countries, in fact, this allows unlimited access to the eu market duty-free for most products. i welcome the tariff liberalisations provided for in the free trade agreements and the commission's proposal to extend the autonomous trade measures for bosnia-herzegovina subject to the country's acceptance of the eu's method of adapting the interim agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council introducing exceptional trade measures applicable to countries and territories participating in or linked to the european union's stabilisation and association process and suspending their application with regard to bosnia and herzegovina. it is a proposal which i consider to be politically very relevant in view of the commitment shown by the european union to a real recovery of the economies of all the western balkan countries, to which the unilateral trade preferences regime is extended until 2020, and to a more general political stability in the region. the proposal for a regulation also introduces the criterion of respect for human rights as a basic requirement for the granting of trade preferences. in this respect, i think it is very appropriate to use the instrument of delegated acts for a possible suspension of preferences, so that greater democratic control is made possible on such sensitive political issues. as regards the suspension of the exceptional trade measures for bosnia-herzegovina, in view of the european union's repeated and unequivocal support for bosnia-herzegovina, i hope that an appropriate solution will be found for the adaptation of the interim agreement to croatia's accession to the european union, avoiding possible damage to european trade interests.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the agreement which is part of the stabilisation and association agreements negotiated by the european commission.
in writing. ‒ this proposal concerns a set of procedures relating to the application of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part, and the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters between the european community, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part. as the duda report aims at the official codification of existing legislative texts, i have decided to support it with a positive vote.
in writing. ‒ we support this proposal for a regulation, as we intend to confirm the european union's effective and firm commitment to the future european integration of the countries and territories participating in or linked to the stabilisation and association process by granting exceptional trade measures, such as unilateral trade preferences. in this way, we are confident that we can contribute to ensuring stability in the region. the concessions under consideration, together with the possibility of their possible and eventual suspension, will provide the right impetus to accelerate the path of political and socioeconomic reforms needed by the western balkan countries to comply with the copenhagen criteria and the union acquis. for the same reason, we have decided to urge bosnia and herzegovina to adjust the interim agreement to the preferential trade with croatia, following the latter's accession to the european union on 1 july 2013, and at the same time we invite the parties to take into account mutual interests in order to reach an agreement acceptable to both eu member states and the signatory countries of the central european free trade agreement (cefta).
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to amend council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 on exceptional trade measures applicable to countries and territories participating in or linked to the european union's stabilisation and association process by extending the benefits for the countries of the western balkans area until the year 2020. all the western balkan countries that are members of the central european free trade agreement (cefta), with the exception of bosnia and herzegovina, have concluded negotiations to amend these agreements with the union. after three rounds of negotiations with bosnia and herzegovina, no agreement was reached. the commission therefore proposes to suspend the benefits for this country from january 2016 until an agreement is reached. in the light of the foregoing and for the reasons mentioned above, i have voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that the suspension is a right measure as bosnia and herzegovina, following the accession of croatia to the eu, has not yet agreed to adapt the interim agreement for preferential traditional trade in the framework of the cefta free trade agreement. of course, the day the eu and bosnia-herzegovina agree and sign an agreement on the adjustment of trade concessions, the preferences can resume.
in writing. ‒ following the extension of certain tariff benefits to the countries of the balkan area, the commission decided to make the corresponding changes to the agreements with the individual countries. the commission has requested the suspension of these benefits following the failure to reach an agreement with bosnia and herzegovina. that is why i have approved the document voted on today in this house, because i believe that this decision is correct and above all because i agree with the european union's request, as expressed in the report, for greater respect for the principles of democracy and the fight against corruption which this country must respect.
in writing. ‒ the massacre of these students, who were killed for the sole reason that they were christians, is unfortunately just another episode in an escalation of violence that europe continues to ignore. there are 100 million persecuted christians in the world, 100 000 christians are killed, beheaded, crucified every year, one every five minutes, with the complicit silence of the institutions, including those of europe. behind this mad genocide there are not economic interests but religious intolerance, radical islam that preaches hate. for these fanatics, for these monsters, the christians, we christians, we have no right to exist, to live, but we must be erased. that's the truth. i will continue to fight for this europe to stop looking the other way and to act and react to this extermination.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this resolution because the killing of 147 students in garissa, kenya, last month and, in general, what is happening to christian minorities all over the world are real tragedies. it is our duty to act in order to prevent such tragic events happening again.
in writing. - i abstained. the condemnation of the facts is clear and clearly acceptable, but the measures requested and the text adopted will prove to be mere statements of principle. we must act now and in a concrete way to help christians in the world.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the motion for a resolution on the persecution of christians worldwide in connection with the killing of students in kenya by the terrorist group al-shabaad because the international community cannot stand by and allow acts of violence like those that have occurred in kenya to be repeated. religious freedom is one of the fundamental freedoms of the person and must therefore be guaranteed everywhere. unfortunately, we are witnessing today, compared with the past, a more intense, more severe, more methodical and ruthlessly ideologized persecution of christians. the international community, as the pope himself has repeatedly said, cannot stand by "mute and inert" in the face of this massacre.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it expresses strong condemnation of terrorism in africa and of the actions of al-shabaad which is trying to establish the islamic state in neighbouring somalia.
in writing. ‒ the recent massacre in garissa has shown how the rise of islamic terrorist organisations in countries with a high degree of political instability has encouraged the spread of persecution of the christian minority. i would remind you that religious freedom is an inalienable human right, universally recognized by the universal declaration of human rights, and as such must be preserved. therefore, in believing that it is essential to support the government of kenya's commitment to tackling the causes of radicalisation and extremism, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ on 2 april 2015, a massacre of university students took place on the garissa campus by the islamist group al-shabaab, somali extremists affiliated with al-qaeda. the balance sheet of the terrorist attack was dramatic: 148 students, mostly christians, were killed, while an unspecified number of other students, some 300, were taken hostage and are never heard from again. the university is a symbolic place, a centre for the education of young people who will represent the future ruling class of the country. i could only vote in favour because i believe that the eu must make every effort to guarantee peace and religious freedom.
in writing. ‒ the horrific massacre of christian students by the somali islamist group al shabaab on the campus of the university of garissa in kenya last april is a reminder that religious freedom in many parts of the world is still far too often at risk. it is even more disconcerting and reprehensible that this should be happening in places such as universities, where young people face the challenge of knowledge on a daily basis, experiencing living together and listening to each other. pope francis has repeatedly called on the international community not to remain silent and helpless in the face of such violence, and not to look the other way. the resolution expresses the european parliament's condolences and our strong support for the kenyan authorities in combating violence and its root causes and in supporting freedom of religion. the bloody persecutions by extremist groups, of which christians are often the victims, are a shock to the european parliament, which, together with the international community, must not remain indifferent. i therefore voted in favour of this important joint resolution.
in writing. ‒ we must not only denounce but also stop the massacres of christians that are taking place in the middle of the world. we can't wait any longer.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the european union must reiterate its firm condemnation of any new terrorist attack. i also believe that we must support the kenyan government to ensure that the fight against terrorism does not become a pretext for the suppression of the civil rights of the population. in view of the targets of the most recent terrorist attacks, it is essential to reaffirm the central role of culture, education and training in the process of building and developing a democratic society.
in writing. ‒ christians are facing unprecedented persecution today. the european union has in recent years proclaimed itself the champion of all human rights. yet, the right to religious freedom is being systematically violated today. the resolution voted today, thanks to the epp amendments, is finally clear and does not shy away from saying forcefully that christians are the most persecuted religious community in the world today. we have said that the defence of christians must be a priority for the eu and that a military training mission in kenya must be launched as soon as possible and that the kenyan authorities must be provided with economic and structural means to combat terrorism. it is time for europe to say without fear that we are all christians.
in writing. less than a month ago, we all witnessed yet another terrorist group attack on our freedoms. the massacre by al shabaab on the kenyan campus in garissa, which claimed the lives of 149 christian students, is, unfortunately, a frightening act of repression of freedom of religion and access to education. finding totally unacceptable any form of terrorism that threatens freedom and human dignity with blood, i welcome the motion for a resolution on the persecution of christians in the world in relation to the sad event in kenya, offering full support to the statement of april 2015 by the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini, and those of the secretary-general of the united nations, ban ki-moon, to promote peace, security and stability in kenya and to continue to support by all means at our disposal the excellent work of the missions in the african union carried out by amisom and the eu special representative for the horn of africa.
in writing. we know very well how serious the events in kenya are, and specifically on the garissa university campus. a terrorist group, somali extremists affiliated with al-qaeda, massacred more than 140 christian students. i wholeheartedly join parliament in condemning in the strongest terms the events, which are not isolated events, for example, when we consider the raids by al-shabaab last summer. i express my deepest condolences to the families of the victims and to the entire population and extend my sincere solidarity to all persecuted christians on the african continent. the european union will be at the forefront of stepping up its efforts to promote peace by encouraging mechanisms for resolving conflicts.
in writing. ‒ we strongly condemn the killing of 148 students on the campus of the university of garissa in kenya by al-shabaab militants on 2 april. we express our strong and heartfelt support for the people, condemning all forms of terrorism in the country and defending the protection of human rights, in particular the right to education of young people, regardless of their religious affiliation. we therefore call on the kenyan government to launch a thorough investigation with the aim of identifying those responsible and bringing them to justice. the european union must commit itself to providing all the necessary support, both financial and logistical, to support and coordinate the fight against terrorist groups in the sahel region. a common strategy to combat radicalisation and the financing of terrorism in africa and globally must be launched. we must remember that terrorism is a global threat and therefore requires a global response.
in writing. ‒ religious freedom is under threat in many parts of the world. today, more than in the past, we are witnessing a more intense, more severe and ruthlessly ideologized persecution of christians by islamic extremists, either because they are considered a danger to islam or because they are considered an obstacle to the islamization of the countries of the middle east. in this context, the massacre in kenya by an islamist commando that stormed a college near sarissa and killed 147 young people, mostly christians, was particularly violent and brutal. the aim of the extremists was not only to spread terror and bloodshed but also to deprive the country of its future and its dignity. the international community must react, it cannot stand by and allow acts of violence like those that have occurred in kenya to be repeated. religious freedom is one of the fundamental freedoms of the person, it must be guaranteed everywhere. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ given that the number of attacks on religious minorities, and in particular on christians, has increased exponentially in recent times, and that christians are subjected to beatings and arrests on a daily basis, especially in some parts of the arab world where jihadist terrorists are located, i would therefore vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i am seriously concerned about the recent increase in attacks against religious minorities, especially against christians. recent news reports have shown that christians are being attacked by jihadist terrorists, particularly in parts of the arab world. there are more and more incidents of intolerance and repression against christians, such as the recent events in kenya with the massacre of students on the garissa university campus by the terrorist group al-shabaab. all religious communities should live in conditions of dignity, equality and security. we must fight international terrorism of a jihadist origin, which is one of the main causes of the persecution of christians. the eu must combat this criminal organisation which is financed by money laundering, extortion, corruption and drug trafficking, by strengthening cooperation with third countries to improve the exchange of information and by jointly fighting all criminal organisations which undermine the values of our society.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution by which the european union condemns the atrocities committed in kenya and, more generally, the persecution which has long afflicted religious minorities, especially christians, in the middle east. unfortunately, however, the epp has won only half the vote, because it did not vote for our text but for the socialist text, which in its original version chose not to mention the fact that the majority of those persecuted are christians. the amendments tabled by the ppe were 14, of which 13 were approved. that's good news, too. it has become quite clear, however, that the term 'christians' is a rather 'uncomfortable' word for a large number of elected representatives in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ today, 30 april 2015, the resolution on the destruction of cultural sites by isis/da'ish was voted. while strongly condemning the actions of isis and sharing several passages of the resolution, which i had a large and active role in drafting, i decided to abstain. as i have said, the central issue to be addressed and resolved is the theft and subsequent sale, on the various european black markets, of archaeological finds of enormous value. theft and illicit trafficking of artefacts are in fact encouraged by the state of war that - for the sake of objectivity and intellectual honesty - is raging not only in syria, libya and iraq, but also in other middle eastern and african states (but forgotten and left to themselves by the eu's inaction). what would be appropriate then is to put an immediate end to the armed conflict in those areas and to avoid military intervention which would further aggravate the situation. i asked for an amendment to include a passage of this kind, but unfortunately no other group supported my position. that explains my abstention.
in writing. ‒ i share and support this text which condemns the destruction by isis of historical sites of great historical importance to humanity and i call for greater intervention by the authorities to combat the illegal trafficking of archaeological artefacts with which these terrorist groups finance themselves.
in writing. ‒ entire archaeological sites devastated, museums destroyed and ancient libraries set on fire: these destructions are an outrage, a real war crime, a cultural genocide perpetrated by isis. we know from several sources that jihadists are smuggling stolen art to fund themselves: from iraq, to the turkish border, the works are sorted in the great black markets of tokyo, new york and london. more: the real goal of isis, if you haven't figured it out yet, is to erase the memory of a civilization, to annihilate humanity by suppressing other cultures. the eu is fully aware of the consequences of this cultural genocide, but what is it doing? he is merely condemning, as always, timidly and weakly. the condemnation, the exhortation, the proposals are no longer necessary. we must dare and move quickly, before it's too late. and maybe he already is.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed this resolution since i believe that it is time we acted to stop the barbaric destruction of cultural sites of inestimable value in syria and iraq, which has been perpetrated by isis/da’esh in recent months.
in writing. - i voted for the measure. i condemn the barbaric destruction of artifacts and archaeological sites by unprincipled beasts such as the militants of isis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the destruction of cultural sites by daesh/isis because reports continue to come from the territories of iraq and syria held by daesh of vandalism against art, duly publicized to strike at the roots of the west's cultural identity. and all this without counting the relentless attacks on books and libraries, which from raqqa to mosul, from cairo to tripoli, continue to burn. unesco director-general irina bokova has described the destruction of artistic sites by isis as "cultural cleansing" and a "war crime". unesco itself estimates the proceeds of the illicit trafficking of cultural property that escapes the destructive fury of isis at $2.2 billion. effective action is needed to stop the destruction of art by islamists. the international community must work to bring this heinous terrorist activity to a swift end and to combat the resulting illegal trafficking of cultural heritage.
in writing. ‒ i considered it appropriate to abstain as i considered it essential to include in the text of the resolution the key amendment tabled by my group which stressed the importance of full respect for international law, human rights and the rule of law in stabilising the situation in regions affected or threatened by isis/da'esh. i believe that the use of force is not a solution to the terrorist threat and i fear that military action could worsen the humanitarian situation on the ground.
in writing. ‒ cases of destruction and looting of sites and objects of cultural, archaeological and religious importance are becoming more frequent, especially in iraq and syria. these crimes are alarming because of the often irreparable damage they cause to the cultural heritage of all humanity, as well as to the identity and dignity of the communities and individuals most directly affected. the phenomena of looting and smuggling of these goods are very serious, all the more so as the profits often made by selling the items in europe contribute to the financing of terrorism. the resolution identifies and calls for concrete measures to combat these phenomena: security measures at the eu's external borders to prevent the illegal import of cultural goods; the allocation of a coordinating role to the commission, in cooperation with national authorities, europol, interpol, unesco and other international organisations; use of satellites to monitor and catalogue sites; supporting the activities of syrian archaeologists; training programmes for those involved in the fight against the smuggling of cultural goods; support to the international observatory on illicit trafficking in cultural property of icom; strengthening of the relevant eurojust and europol services. for these reasons, while stressing the need for effective sanctions also for the purchasers of stolen goods, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the attacks by isis on archaeological sites recognised as 'cultural heritage of humanity' are not just a worrying attempt to carry out a 'cultural cleansing' to the detriment of the peoples of the region. this deliberate destruction contributes to the financing of conflict and terrorist activities through the smuggling of artistic and cultural goods. i believe it is of the utmost importance to protect the world's artistic heritage and to prevent the illicit trafficking of cultural property by strengthening cooperation with third countries. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ my abstention on the vote is due to the fact that the following amendment to the resolution was not passed: ‘underlines the importance of full respect for international law, human rights and the rule of law in stabilising the situation in the regions affected or threatened by isis/da’esh; believes that the use of force does not represent a solution to the terrorist threat’.
in writing. ‒ the brutal destruction of cultural, archaeological and religious sites and assets in syria, iraq and all other territories that are the object of terrorist acts is an act to be strongly condemned. actions aimed at erasing part of that historical and cultural heritage, which is a component of the identity of the communities in the territories affected or threatened by isis/da'esh, as well as undermining decades of peaceful coexistence between groups and individuals, encourage the illegal trafficking of priceless objects and works of art. while recognising that the use of force is not a solution to the terrorist threat, it is essential that the european union and the international community as a whole, including regional partners in the middle east, adopt the most appropriate strategies both to protect the most vulnerable cultural assets and sites and to stabilise the situation in the regions affected or threatened by isis/da'esh, in full respect of international law, human rights and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the resolution condemning the destruction of archaeological sites and works of art by isis. more action is also needed to combat the illegal trafficking of cultural goods.
in writing. ‒ in syria and iraq, isis is fighting a 360-degree war aimed at erasing our millennial culture based on the values of humanism, freedom and democracy. so alongside the gruesome images of death are those of "cultural cleansing": the isil is destroying thousands of years of artistic heritage of invaluable cultural value. alongside the initiatives to save christians, i have been a promoter of this resolution in which parliament, with one voice, asks the high representative to take concrete action to protect our culture, specifically indicating some tools that can be used to write the words end to the destruction wrought by isis.
in writing. the recent attacks by isis on the bardo museum in tunis, mosul in iraq and some important historical sites in syria are real attacks on history and cultural heritage not only national but universal, material raids of archaeological treasures, symbolic demolitions of the origins and identities of many peoples. i therefore vote in favour of unesco promoting with the un, in line with its resolution 2199, interventions and actions to secure sites at risk in war zones, safeguarding the common cultural heritage. i therefore offer my full support to initiatives to make it safer, including through the use of the so-called 'cultural blue helmets', and i strongly encourage operations to block the trade in stolen works of art in order to be able to cut off a source of funding for the criminal and war activities of isis.
in writing. following the attacks by isis/da'esh on the bardo museum in tunis, the mosul museum in iraq and historical sites in syria, it was inevitable that the commission would address the issue of trade in eu member states in cultural works illegally stolen from those countries. i join parliament in calling for culture to be recognised as having the power to reconcile peoples and to play a key role in promoting peace.
in writing. ‒ numerous archaeological, religious and cultural sites in syria and iraq have been the target of systematic attacks by islamic extremists. the cultural heritage of a people reflects its identity. the lack of respect for places of worship or archaeological sites belonging to the artistic and cultural heritage of a country is therefore an act of terrorism in all its forms. for these reasons i have decided to welcome this resolution, in which the european parliament has expressed its extreme displeasure at the destructive action perpetrated by isis.
in writing. ‒ a number of archaeological, religious and cultural sites in syria, iraq and tunisia have recently been targeted for destruction by extremist groups linked, in particular, to the islamic state (isis/da'esh). unesco has defined such acts as acts of "cultural cleansing", a deliberate strategy aimed at destroying cultural diversity through deliberate attacks against individuals identified on the basis of their cultural, ethnic or religious background. we consider cultural heritage to be an important component of the cultural identity of communities, groups and individuals. we strongly condemn the smuggling and illegal trade in cultural and religious objects which are used to finance terrorist activities, with the consequence that artistic and cultural objects are becoming veritable 'weapons of war'. in this regard, we call for the involvement of the european cultnet network, whose main objective is to improve the exchange of information on the prevention of illicit trafficking in cultural goods, and we call on the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy to take appropriate measures to put an end to the illegal trade in cultural goods by preventing their use as a source of financing for terrorist activities in all territories.
in writing. ‒ following the recent attacks by isis/daesh on the bardo museum in tunis, the mosul museum in iraq and historical sites in syria, this resolution asks the commission whether it intends to take the necessary measures to block trade in eu member states in cultural works illegally stolen from those countries and whether it sees the possibility of establishing a new mode of cooperation between the eu and unesco with the specific objective of protecting cultural heritage in conflict zones. for these reasons i thought it appropriate to support the resolution. the world's archaeological heritage is part of our culture, and as such must be defended with force.
in writing. ‒ the cultural genocide perpetrated by isis is a serious crime against humanity. preserving the historical heritage also means preserving identity, the possibility of peaceful coexistence and the future of tolerance between peoples. isis militants are waging a violent struggle against images and symbols that predate the prophet muhammad in an attempt to erase their "own" history. these actions led to the destruction of much of the walls of nineveh, the ancient capital of the assyrian empire, in the eighth century b.c.e. invaluable historical and cultural heritage is sold across borders in western countries and the proceeds are used to buy weapons and finance terrorist activities. this revenue is the second largest source of income for terrorist groups, after oil. international legislation in this area needs to be revised. i believe that only strong cooperation, capable of imposing precise laws, can stem and solve the problem. for isis militants, history is a threat and eliminating it leads to the destabilization necessary to achieve their goal: the elimination of free will. let us fight together for the preservation of cultural heritage and for freedom of thought. #unite4heritage (unite4heritage) is a community
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for the work he has done and hope that i have made a contribution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of extending the category of crimes against humanity under international law to include the crimes that isis forces are currently committing in cultural sites, damaging and destroying works that are part of our world cultural heritage. the international community must take action to stop the illegal trade in cultural property used to finance criminal organisations and to destroy it. we cannot remain passive in the face of the strategy of "cultural cleansing" declared by isis, which aims to eliminate religious and cultural symbols, the historical memory of indigenous peoples and at the same time the historical memory of the whole of humanity. the resolution also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of cultural institutions, including the european centre for the development of culture, which will be responsible for the protection of cultural heritage in the countries of origin.
in writing. ‒ the european union has an obligation to intervene to stop what is happening in syria and iraq, where archaeological and cultural sites of immense value have been destroyed by extremist groups linked to isis/daesh. unesco has called these attacks "cultural cleansing". this is a clear and targeted strategy to destroy cultural diversity, by indirectly persecuting people on the basis of their cultural, ethnic and religious origin and seeking to eliminate expressions of history and culture that have existed for millennia. in addition, looting and smuggling of archaeological artefacts contribute to the financing of isis/da'esh's terrorist activities. i therefore welcome the eu's funding of unesco for the three-year project to ensure the emergency protection of syrian heritage. i am also convinced that eurojust and europol must take decisive action through effective international information exchange to prevent and stop the illegal trade in cultural goods.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the community resolution on the destruction of cultural sites by isis/da'ish because i believe it is right that the high representative should do what he can to put an end to the illegal trade in cultural goods from the territories of syria and iraq, in order to prevent the proceeds of such sales from being used to finance terrorist organisations. i believe that cooperation is particularly urgent and that it should lead to joint action to reconcile the different communities and to rebuild the sites that have been destroyed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the destruction of museums and historical sites by isis in syria and iraq. these acts of intolerance reflect a deliberate attempt to erase all forms of cultural, ethnic and religious diversity. in the light of these facts, i believe that the safeguarding and protection of all cultural property in conflict zones which could be the object of such barbarity is of the utmost urgency. i hope that, in addition to defence, work will be undertaken to promote the historical heritage left to us by past civilizations, so that we can better appreciate the importance of these assets for all citizens of the world. in this context, i hope that the european union, in cooperation with unesco and the international criminal court, will take the necessary steps to recognize the systematic and deliberate destruction of cultural heritage not only as a war crime but also as a crime against humanity as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the resolution calling for the coverage of 'crimes against humanity' to be extended to the destruction of artistic heritage in view of what is happening in the territories occupied by isis. to attack the artistic heritage of a people is to destroy their memory and to end the cultural heritage of an entire region. millenniums of advancement in civilization and millenniums of innovation and artistic and social evolution cannot be attacked by blind and censorious hatred. europe must promote the idea that an attack on culture is an attack on humanity.
in writing. ‒ numerous archaeological, religious and cultural sites in syria and iraq have recently been targeted for destruction by extremist groups linked in particular to the islamic state of iraq and syria (isis/da'ish). such acts of destruction have been considered cultural cleansing, if not crimes against humanity. unfortunately, these barbaric acts are often not confined to monuments and buildings, but also lead to violence against ethnic and religious minorities. i hope that the european union will take the necessary steps as soon as possible, in cooperation with unesco and the international criminal court, to extend the scope of international law to include crimes against humanity, so that acts involving the deliberate damage or destruction of the cultural heritage of mankind on a large scale are also covered.
in writing. ‒ i intend to support this resolution by my vote, in which we call on the maldivian government to make a firm effort to restore its commitment to democracy and respect for the freedoms of expression, assembly, due process and religion.
in writing. ‒ i voted yes to this resolution since i believe that the situation in the maldives is worrisome and that we should press the government there to have democracy and the rule of law reinstated.
in writing. - i voted yes. the resolution acknowledges that the maldives is among the worst countries in the world for attacks, torture and intimidation against opposition mps. the political unrest comes amid concerns about the rise of militant islam and the number of radicalized youths who are reportedly siding with isis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in the maldives today because the maldives archipelago is going through one of the most turbulent periods in its political history, marked by massive popular protests and heated judicial controversies. a period of serious political and institutional instability, comparable in some ways to the dramatic events of september 2003 that pushed the country on the road to democracy. the situation remains extremely tense and the risk of a violent escalation of anti-government demonstrations has been repeatedly denounced by international diplomatic representatives, who have called on the parties concerned to engage in constructive dialogue and to resolve their differences peacefully. europe must intervene more decisively in the political crisis in the country by exerting the necessary pressure on the local authorities and possibly by temporarily suspending cooperation with the maldives until a situation of normality and respect for human rights is restored.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i appreciated the resolution's condemnation of the reintroduction of the death penalty in the maldives and the call for an end to political interference in the judicial system. i also agree with the concern expressed about the repression of political opposition and the intimidation of the media and civil society.
in writing. ‒ the recent sequence of political and judicial events in the maldives is putting the democratic principles of the 2008 constitution to the test, in particular those relating to the independence of the judiciary from political power. the period of serious political and institutional instability has led to a growing trend towards authoritarianism and abuse of power. the concern is the context of growing religious radicalism in which political unrest is taking place. they strongly condemn the reintroduction of the death penalty, the repression of political opponents and the attacks on freedom of expression and information which have affected journalists, associations and ordinary citizens. this has put at risk the progress made in recent years in human rights, democracy and the rule of law, casting a significant shadow over the current geopolitical balances in the indian ocean. it is also desirable that action be taken within the international community to facilitate the socio-political stability of the maldives.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the resolution because the maldives is sadly ranked among the worst countries in the world for attacks, torture and intimidation against opposition mps.
in writing. ‒ on march 13, the former president of the maldives was sentenced to 13 years in prison on terrorism charges for the arrest of the then criminal court judge in 2012. the circumstances of the arrest, in a state where the phenomenon of islamic radicalisation is growing rapidly and where the judiciary is, according to all the main international observers, collateral to political power, force us to make our voice heard. it is necessary to put an end to authoritarian tendencies and to restore democracy and the rule of law as soon as possible. in the resolution we also asked the high representative and the eeas to continue to monitor and do everything in their power to achieve these objectives.
in writing. i voted for and helped draft the resolution on the political situation in the maldives, which expresses strong concern about the growing authoritarian tendencies in the country, the repression of political opposition and intimidation of the media and civil society. these actions risk jeopardising the progress made in recent years in the field of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. i therefore also call on the parties to refrain from actions that could aggravate the crisis and to respect democracy and the rule of law.
in writing. today we discussed what is happening in the maldives. former president m. nasheed was sentenced to 13 years for terrorism charges for having a judge arrested in 2012 on charges of corruption and abuse of power. the former president was initially denied access to a lawyer and a fair trial. i therefore join the high representative and parliament in defending the international covenant on civil and political rights and in calling on the maldivian government to guarantee a fair trial, in the knowledge of the impartiality of the law.
in writing. ‒ the lack of political independence and the inadequate functioning of the judiciary system in the maldives undermine the credibility of the territory both at national and international level. the situation is made worse by the lack of respect for fundamental human rights in the country. it is no coincidence that the maldives is among the worst countries in the world for attacks, torture and intimidation against opposition mps. i voted in favour of this resolution because i want urgent reforms to be implemented to ensure that the rule of law is restored in the country.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this motion for a resolution, which is necessary in view of the recent escalation of violence and political tensions in the maldives following the trial of former president nasheed. since then, there have been numerous clashes between protesters, gangs and police, and at least 140 opponents have been arrested since february. we call on all parties involved to restore order and the basic principles of the rule of law. we believe that the rights of the accused have not been adequately protected in the numerous lawsuits brought against former government officials. we call for a fair, credible, impartial and inclusive political process, with the participation of all democratic forces. we also express our concern at the current situation of political and social crisis and hope that this resolution will be an incentive for the political authorities in the maldives to ensure that the judicial system is depoliticised and that the rights of the accused and the protesters are adequately protected. we also call on the vice-president of the commission/high representative to continue to monitor the situation and to play a proactive role in the search for a political solution, in order to strengthen the democratic system in the maldives and ensure full respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution in question, which expresses grave concern at the growing authoritarian tendencies in the maldives, the repression of political opposition and the intimidation of the media and civil society, which risk jeopardising the progress made in recent years in the field of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. i hope that the high representative will continue to follow the political situation in the maldives closely and play a proactive role in the eu's bilateral relations with the country, in order to achieve stability, strengthen democracy and the rule of law, and ensure full respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for the work he has done and hope that i have made a contribution.
in writing. ‒ the rise of authoritarianism, the repression of political opposition and intimidation of the media and civil society must be a source of concern for those who believe in democracy and freedom of expression. in the maldives we are seeing a continuous escalation of forms of violence against those who criticize the government and express different opinions. the judicial system is also not independent and impartial, as was seen in the case of mohamed nasheed, who was convicted in a very dubious manner. it is imperative that president nasheed has a new credible trial, with an independent judiciary and with the participation of all political forces. it is essential that stability and peace be restored to the country, so that the maldives can be brought back on the path of democracy.
in writing. ‒ in the joint resolution on the situation in the maldives, we wanted to sharply criticise the government which, by repressing press freedom, restricting the right to a fair trial in proceedings that could be detrimental to them and reintroducing the death penalty, is implementing a policy that is not democratic at all. to this end, we have asked the high representative to play an important role in helping this country to regain stability and democracy and to restore the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the report analysing albania's progress as a candidate country for eu membership. i believe that the problems of this state with regard to crime, terrorist infiltration and illicit trafficking are still too deeply rooted and for these reasons i did not intend to support the text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ given the persisting shortcomings of the judicial system, the high level of corruption, the strong presence of organised crime, including trafficking in human beings, the lack of protection of minorities, the lack of transparency in funding and the deficiencies in labour market conditions, and also considering that the european commission does not foresee any new accession to the european union for the next 5 years, i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i chose to vote in favour of this resolution since i believe that albania should, eventually, become a member of the eu and that granting it the status of candidate country will encourage the albanian government to intensify its efforts to implement new reforms in order to consolidate the democratic transformation.
in writing. - i voted against it. i do not agree with the analysis expressed in the text of the resolution that albania has the characteristics to join the eu.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 2014 progress report on albania which recorded the undoubted progress made by albania towards eu accession. this will help to smooth the way and make it easier to resolve the remaining problems and remove obstacles with a virtuous pace. the five main priorities still need to be strengthened, in particular the reform of the public administration, the strengthening of the judiciary, the fight against corruption and organised crime, and the strengthening of the protection of human rights. these ambitious objectives can only be achieved by the right political will, which will be translated into the most effective governmental and administrative action. 'working towards a political culture' involves a professional public administration, effective enforcement of the public employment law, increased efficiency, transparency, accountability and financial sustainability. i therefore gladly join all those who wish for albania to adopt reforms to combat corruption and increase the level of citizens' confidence in a judicial system that is clean, fair and just.
in writing. ‒ mr fleckenstein has done a very good job with this report and i therefore voted in favour. i very much appreciated the emphasis on the importance of upholding the rule of law in albania and the independence and transparency of the judicial institutions. there are many challenges facing the country and the road to accession is still very long, but i am confident that albania will be committed to achieving concrete results.
in writing. ‒ the document we voted on analyses and supports the usefulness of the albanian integration process. the progress already made by albania towards the transposition of eu criteria is recognised. at the same time, there are also concerns about the polarization between the political forces in albania, which could harm both the european integration process and the integrity of the constitutional integrity of the system. the report also expresses concern about the phenomenon of corruption, especially if it is found in the judiciary. despite the progress made, the need to combat crime and drug trafficking, which still exert a significant upward pressure on disadvantaged sections of society, is also stressed. the document is quite comprehensive and for that reason i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because the eu's enlargement policy has been wrong in the past and will be wrong again. the disadvantages created and still in existence will only be increased by this short-sighted policy.
in writing. the report we have just adopted which i supported commends albania for having achieved candidate status. i too believe that this important recognition should be seen as an encouragement to intensify reform efforts even further. it is also up to europe to support this process and to adopt an open and dialogue-oriented attitude.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on progress made by albania in 2014. i have recently visited the country and have seen firsthand the progress made towards full european integration. the efforts made by the albanian authorities to bring their legislation fully into line with the requirements of the european union, which is a prerequisite for accession, are tangible. the recent adoption of the national plan for european integration 2014-2020 gives concrete expression to albania's will to take further steps forward on this path, through the implementation of economic, political and judicial criteria. the albanian government has demonstrated the political will to act to combat corruption and organised crime. in many areas, the strengthening of legislation in this area has shown a positive trend, especially in the fight against drugs and human trafficking. in general, the rights of disabled people, lgbti people, children and minorities are substantially respected, although more efforts are needed in this regard. there are certainly many issues to be tackled, such as the environment and the diversification of energy sources, which are vital to economic development and to greater transparency, especially in the management of public finances.
in writing. i voted in favour of albania's accession to the european union, expressing my support for the progress it has made in its integration process. it stressed the need for a reform of the public administration in order to implement all the other reforms envisaged, in particular those concerning the rule of law and the judiciary, and called for cooperation with the european agencies and the member states of the union in the fight against drug trafficking.
in writing. ‒ although albania has made enormous progress and efforts on its path towards eu membership, acquiring candidate country status last year, challenges remain that need to be addressed swiftly and effectively. the formal opening of accession negotiations would certainly provide a strong incentive to launch further reforms. as always, the european union places the rule of law at the heart of all its considerations: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european police office. we are concerned about the lack of genuine independence of the media and the lack of transparency in media ownership and funding. we believe that eu accession is an inclusive process that belongs to the whole country and all its citizens, and therefore we wish for a constructive and sustainable political dialogue on eu-related reforms, conducted in a spirit of cooperation and compromise between the main political forces. the process of european integration, if it is to succeed, will have to enjoy broad political consensus and broad democratic support from all albanian citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the above resolution which shows the progress made by albania in the last year. the resolution encourages the country to continue on the european path and the reform process. in particular, it stresses the need to strengthen the rule of law and reform the judicial system and recommends cooperation with european agencies and eu member states in the fight against drug trafficking. the resolution also calls for a climate of religious tolerance and good inter-ethnic relations and encourages albania to ensure a more professional and friendly working environment for journalists.
in writing. ‒i thank the rapporteur for his work and hope that i have made a contribution.
in writing. ‒ i find that albania has made enormous progress on its path towards eu membership and that the country is moving, thanks also to the start of the implementation of reforms, towards a stable form of democracy. acquisition of candidate country status should encourage and intensify reform efforts. in order to achieve full european integration, albania must make a strong commitment to the independence of the judiciary and the fight against corruption and organised crime, and the political forces must participate and cooperate in this process. the consolidation of democratic transformation and the implementation of the reforms demanded by the eu must be a joint endeavour of all actors involved in the change in albania.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2014 progress report on albania because i want to give a signal of support to albania's european integration process, stressing the need for a reform of the public administration for the implementation of all other reforms and also wishing for a climate of religious tolerance and good inter-ethnic relations in order to encourage this country to ensure a more professional and flexible working environment for journalists.
in writing. i voted against because i think any attempt to enlarge the european union is insane.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the process of european integration in albania because i am convinced that the european union, and parliament in particular, should support and reward the efforts made by this country in recent months. i hope that the recognition of the results achieved will encourage the political class to continue on the path of the fight against corruption and reforms, first of all in the public administration and the judicial system.
in writing. ‒ i did not intend to support this report on bosnia's progress in its eu accession process with my vote. i believe that the problems facing this country are more deep-rooted and more complex to solve than what is shown in this text, which i consider to be too optimistic.
in writing. ‒ i endorsed this resolution because the european union should utilise its soft power to push bosnia and herzegovina to take the path towards reform. we should encourage the country to end the ethnic disputes and to fight corruption at all levels.
in writing. - i voted against it. i am against the stabilisation and association agreements with the balkan countries. the trade privileges granted to them are very damaging to our goods and products and we do not gain anything in return.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 2014 progress report on bosnia and herzegovina because the progress bosnia and herzegovina is making is leading the country towards meeting the expectations of the european union and is therefore introducing it with increasing conviction on the european path. a great deal of progress has been made, although much remains to be done. i believe that the government of bosnia-herzegovina must not stop but must instead continue with greater emphasis the institutional reforms which have been initiated and which are absolutely essential to improve the socioeconomic situation and to continue the process of rapprochement with the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i appreciated the fact that the resolution stressed the urgent need for bosnia and herzegovina to adapt to european legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2014 progress report on bosnia and herzegovina, sharing satisfaction with the progress made in some areas and concerns expressed on many others. in particular, i am pleased that all the political forces in the country have signed up to the commitment to eu integration and therefore to implement the reforms that are essential for this to happen. however, as an efficient public administration is the backbone of the integration process of bosnia and herzegovina and any country aspiring to become an eu member state, i express my concern about the fragmentation, politicization and dysfunction of the public administration. i also find the inefficiency of the judicial system, where the risk of political interference in proceedings remains very high, equally worrying, and i therefore hope that the fight against corruption will become one of the absolute priorities. i share the concern about the high number of people who are missing, as well as the continued presence of organised criminal groups. i reiterate the call in the report to do what is necessary to stop radicalism and to combat drug and human trafficking.
in writing. ‒ despite the difficulties bosnia and herzegovina is facing in its democratization process, i believe that the drive for progress towards the democratization of the country should be encouraged. this can only be achieved by modernising and managing resources properly. the fight against corruption and organised crime must not be halted. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because the eu's enlargement policy has been wrong in the past and will be wrong again. the disadvantages created and still in existence will only be increased by this short-sighted policy.
in writing. i strongly support, as the approved report states, the european integration of bosnia and herzegovina. like the rapporteur, i believe that the eu's increased commitment should also focus on socioeconomic issues, the business environment and the participation of society in the reform process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the progress of bosnia and herzegovina in 2014 and i fully share its concerns. unfortunately, we must once again note that progress in the implementation of a sustainable and functional institutional system remains insufficient and limited. the disagreement between the political parties and the different ethnic groups in implementing the reform system is in fact blocking the path towards european integration. this political climate has produced limited results in the reform of the public administration and the judicial sector, where corruption affects entire public sectors and the fight against organised crime is weak. the lack of respect for human rights, freedom of the press and of thought, and for the rights of lgbti persons, children and minorities remains a matter of great concern. the country has made little progress in implementing the economic criteria. although economic growth has shown a rather positive trend, the recovery remains fragile and public enterprises are still too weak. the labour market reflects high unemployment rates and the rate of unemployment among young people is particularly worrying. the lack of will and coordination on european issues unfortunately continues to have a negative impact on bosnia-herzegovina's rapprochement with the european union.
in writing. i strongly supported the motion for a resolution because i believe that the process of european integration must also pass through bosnia-herzegovina. the written commitment made by the bosnian presidency is a clear sign of support for this process. this resolution underlines the progress made in the fight against crime and terrorism, which is clearly an important achievement. the need remains, however, to initiate reforms and democratisation of the political system, with particular attention also paid to possible political and financial pressures in the media sector.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this motion for a resolution, which is necessary because the european union has reiterated its commitment to bosnia and herzegovina's european perspective, based on a coordinated approach to enable the country to resume its reform process and improve its social and economic situation, and because eu accession is an inclusive process, belonging to the whole country and all its citizens, and requires a national consensus on the reform agenda. as regards bosnia-herzegovina's process of rapprochement with the eu, we express our concern at the world bank indicators, according to which bosnia-herzegovina is the european country with the lowest rate of ease of doing business. it is one of the lowest ranking countries in the corruption perceptions index and has the highest youth unemployment rate in europe. we therefore urge the new political leaders of bosnia and herzegovina to refrain from divisive, divisive and polarizing nationalist and secessionist rhetoric and to seriously engage in reforms that will improve the lives of their citizens, create a functioning, inclusive and democratic state and bring the country closer to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the above resolution which shows the progress made by bosnia and herzegovina in the last year. the resolution encourages the country to continue on the european path and the reform process and welcomes the written commitment on european integration adopted by the bosnian presidency and signed by all political leaders on 23 february 2015. the resolution stresses the progress made in the fight against organised crime and terrorism and calls for the fight against corruption to be made a top priority. it also considers it crucial to proceed in parallel with policies of reform and democratisation of the political system.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur for his work and hope that i have made a contribution.
in writing. ‒ i hope that bosnia and herzegovina will make the most of the opportunity offered by the european union to have a european perspective by implementing the necessary reforms and putting aside the quarrels between political leaders that lead to a stalemate that prevents the stabilisation and development of the country. this political instability leads to a slowdown in development, high unemployment and widespread corruption. the new leaders of the country must commit to the institutional, economic and social reforms needed to improve the quality of life of the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina and to allow the required progress towards eu membership.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the progress of bosnia and herzegovina because it is right to applaud a state that is trying to improve its negative standards in terms of fighting organised crime and terrorism. but this is not enough, because more efforts are needed in the fight against corruption, as well as policies to democratize the political system.
in writing. i decided to vote against because it is considered that bosnia and herzegovina made progress in 2014 towards future eu membership, despite acknowledging that corruption is widespread, the public administration is fragmented, the different legal systems pose a challenge, the cooperation mechanisms with civil society remain weak, the media landscape is polarized and equal rights are not guaranteed to all peoples and citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the process of european integration in bosnia-herzegovina because i firmly believe that the future of this country lies in the european union. the eu, born after a war that destroyed the continent, must set an example, showing that reconciliation is possible. our motto 'unity in diversity' must help to overcome its internal divisions. it is unacceptable that the citizens should pay the highest price for this lack of political will.
in writing. ‒ while the report is acceptable in some of its passages, in which it criticises and comments on the activities of the european investment bank, the fact remains that it insists on not acknowledging that the root cause of the crisis is the euro itself and calls for a greater contribution from the eib itself. i therefore abstained from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report since i believe that the european investment bank’s support for smes has been of key importance in the most troubled times of the crisis. nonetheless, the eib should do more to support our enterprises, mainly by helping to foster investment in higher-risk projects that do not easily qualify for bank financing.
in writing. - i abstained. the report makes several observations and points on the eib's activities, but its preamble is too rigid to conceal the fact that the cause of the crisis, which calls for a greater contribution from the eib, is the euro and nothing else.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the 2013 annual report of the european investment bank. the report stressed that all possible resources from member states and the eu, including those of the eib, must be mobilised efficiently and without delay to encourage and incentivise public and private investment, promote competitiveness, restore sustainable and inclusive growth and stimulate the creation of quality jobs and infrastructure in line with the europe 2020 strategy. the report also welcomes the considerations of the eib, which should continue to play the key role of catalyst for financing sound long-term public and private investment, but which should not be an alternative to structural reforms and economic policy geared to sustainable growth and job creation, which the member states must pursue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual report on the european investment bank (eib) as i share the recognition of the important work done by the eib in support of the union's economy and its key role as a catalyst for medium and long-term investment and as a promoter of social cohesion able to provide assistance to the most deprived states. i agree with the suggestions to the european investment bank contained in the document in question. i am particularly in favour of the need to mobilise without delay and efficiently the resources which are essential to stimulate economic recovery, promote competitiveness and stimulate the creation of quality jobs and infrastructure. i also share the suggestions made to the eib regarding the leading role it will play in the new european fund for strategic investments. i regret the continued difficulty faced by smes in accessing credit and welcome the insistence in the report that we have voted for on the need to increase efforts to finance the activities of smes, particularly micro-enterprises, which are the backbone of the european economy and as such should be one of the main beneficiaries of investment.
in writing. ‒ i do not support the report with a favourable vote, despite the fact that there are several comments and remarks on the eib's activities. the accusation of true evil is completely missing from the analysis of the crisis: the euro.
in writing. ‒ especially in times of crisis such as the one we are unfortunately still experiencing, the european investment bank is proving to be one of the decisive instruments for the lives of millions of european citizens, in particular for employment and growth. the figures show an increase in support for smes, the lifeblood of the european economy, but also in funds directed at young people. the amount of this funding has been increased and we ask that the increases continue in the coming years. we are calling for less bureaucracy and more flexibility and simplicity, a 'european bank' which can be the shoulder on which citizens can rely in times of difficulty.
in writing. in the report just adopted, parliament calls on the eib to make a strategic effort to accompany the implementation of the commission's communication on an investment plan for europe. with the aim of revitalising the eu economy by mobilising eur 315 billion over the next three years, the eib is called upon to fulfil its mandate as a promoter of investment in europe. the hope is that this institution will finally become more proactive and act as a driver of growth, as its statute provides.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr ernest urtasun on the annual report of the european investment bank (eib). i believe that it should continue to act as a catalyst for public and private funds and to implement best practice prudential banking, thus maintaining its strong capital position.
in writing. ‒ the economic and financial crisis, exacerbated by austerity policies, has seriously damaged economic growth in many eu member states. in this context, the european investment bank, whose mandate is to ensure cohesion and adequate assistance to the member states most affected by the crisis, can play an important role. i voted in favour of the urtasun report because i share the view that the financing instruments implemented by the eib are not an alternative to structural reforms aimed at sustainable growth and job creation.
in writing. ‒ we want to highlight the valuable role played by the eib in supporting social cohesion in the eu. we call for its resources to be mobilised to encourage and incentivise public and private investment, promote competitiveness, restore sustainable and inclusive growth and stimulate the creation of quality employment in line with the europe 2020 strategy. the eib should continue to play its role as a catalyst for financing long-term public and private investment, with a consequent positive effect on lending conditions. we expect the investment plan promoted by juncker to facilitate access to finance in member states and regions with high levels of unemployment and a gdp per capita below the eu average, recalling in this connection that it is essential for the eib to cooperate with european funds in order to allow productive public investment and key infrastructure projects to be carried out. we expect priority to be given to projects with clear european added value, respecting the principle of additionality, and a positive cost-benefit analysis. we stress the importance of implementing projects which have the greatest impact in terms of job creation, projects with a higher risk which could not be funded otherwise.
in writing. ‒ whereas all possible resources from the member states and the eu, including those of the eib, must be mobilised efficiently and without delay to encourage and incentivise public and private investment, promote competitiveness, restore sustainable and inclusive growth and stimulate the creation of quality employment and infrastructure in line with the europe 2020 strategy, and whereas the eib is an instrument designed to support social cohesion and is able to provide valuable assistance to member states in difficulty in the current critical social and economic situation that needs to be addressed; i would therefore vote in favour of the commission's proposal, which is based on the principle of subsidiarity, and i would also like to ask the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented in a way that is consistent with the principles of subsidiarity and transparency.
in writing. ‒ the eib has a key role to play in supporting economic growth and competitiveness. i therefore believe it is right that the eib's activities should follow the eu's key medium- and long-term priorities. the eu's core objectives of job creation, boosting competitiveness, research and development, supporting smes, financing strategic infrastructure and efficient use of resources must be fully supported and strengthened. the eib's support for various types of projects in the eu is crucial to boosting the economy and i welcome the fact that the eib has increased its lending capacity compared to the past. in this light, i hope that the eib can find and use additional sources of finance to make a significant contribution to economic recovery and growth.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 annual report of the european investment bank, despite referring to the activity of 2013, gave ample space to the role of the eib in the efsi (european investment fund or junker plan). in particular, the need to facilitate access to credit was identified, especially in regions with a high unemployment rate or low per capita income and for smes. the report as a whole thus draws attention to the role of the eib as a catalyst for public and private funds, which it has played and will continue to play. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. the urtasun resolution on the 2013 eib report blatantly condemns the work of the european institution, accusing it of a lack of transparency and insufficient control in the projects funded, finally bringing to light at the institutional level the very serious criticisms related to the work of the eib. the large majority of parliament's approval is a major success for all those who have been denouncing for years the high risks of corruption and fraud that, often due to the inertia of the institutions, are hidden behind the financing of major works. the final vote was mainly determined by the inclusion of an explicit reference, which was very critical and crucial for us, to the passante di mestre in veneto, a project financed despite the corruption and fraud scandal, and to the disastrous castor project in spain. the inclusion in the text of the request to block the project bond for the passante, which the eib has announced it will issue by the end of the summer, and to adopt a policy of zero tolerance towards projects affected by fraud, corruption and mafia infiltration was also fundamental for us. for these reasons i voted in favour of the resolution, hoping that it will be able to trigger a strong reaction from the eib and the other european institutions, aimed at ensuring that at least the projects financed by europe are managed in a transparent and clean way.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament presented an own-initiative report this year, analysing aspects of the eib's activities. the text we have approved today contains many criticisms, which i share, such as the condemnation of the management of the castor project in spain and the passante di mestre in italy. i regret that the eib financed the section of the motorway known as passante di mestre after the italian authorities had publicly announced the arrest for tax fraud of the chief executive of the main subcontractor. i therefore believe that the eib should ensure that a zero-tolerance policy is applied to fraud when it is considering the use of bond loans to finance projects. i am therefore glad that these points have been included in the report, which i have supported.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sorry to speak in a virtually empty chamber, but perhaps we should dress differently and be more present when the votes are being declared. i'm coming to my ballot. eni, an italian company, has been accused of land grabbing and exploitation for years. research by actionaid, fao and grain showed that among italian farms involved in large-scale agricultural land leasing projects, 180 000 hectares in the democratic republic of congo were intended for the cultivation of oil palm for use as biofuel. these plantations are causing forest loss and local farmers are seeing their land destroyed. in 2011, the chairman of another multinational, nestlé, peter brabeck, said he was potentially not opposed to the creation of a water exchange. these two cases have one thing in common: these two companies are both partners of expo 2015, and for these reasons, madam president, i voted against the expo resolution, which was passed today, and for these reasons i will be present tomorrow at the may day no expo demonstration, against precarious work, against the exploitation of the planet. now and always, may day.
in writing. ‒ "a year ago, the word for expo was scandal. i thank those who have managed to turn this event into an opportunity", said matteo renzi on 7 february. you know what you call the mental process of forgetting your problems as if they never existed? removal of the vehicle. he even admitted: "we have removed the word scandal". then comes the arrest of incalza, and the doubts also linked to the palazzo italia of the expo. too soon to remove the "expo-scandal" association. i don't know what else to call an expo that's supposed to teach the world about healthy eating, and instead has its main sponsors coca-cola and mcdonald's, two giant brands that represent junk food in the world, not healthy eating. i have no other word to describe a fair that should encourage the mixing of different thoughts, but instead will silence and drive away dissenting voices, because the decision taken by the government is that "no one can make a bad impression, so we are also ready for regulatory measures". i have no other word for it than scandal because an expo that should be "feeding the planet" has instead eaten 1,000 hectares of agricultural land. it has swallowed up a huge portion of land from which food was obtained, killing it with concrete.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution analysing the 'milan expo 2015'. although we will only be able to assess the effects of this in the coming months, i believe that this showcase will be fundamental for lombardy, veneto and the whole of italy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution since i believe that expo milano 2015 is a great opportunity not only for italy but also for the european continent as a whole. the event focuses mainly on the agriculture sector, which remains one of the key sectors of the european economy. therefore the european parliament should endorse this event.
in writing. - i voted yes. the role of expo will be fundamental for milan, lombardy and piedmont, and for the whole of italy.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution 'expo milano 2015: feeding the planet, energy for life'. the european parliament has thus underlined the importance of the expo as a reference point for achieving objectives which make it possible to assert the right to adequate and nutritious food. i voted to send a strong message that raises awareness of the urgent need to solve the problems of food distribution and consumption, to tackle food waste and to fight malnutrition. i hope therefore that the position of parliament expressed in this resolution and the very strong reach of expo 2015 will really contribute to change in a world where hunger and waste coexist, where the production of biofuels and feed does not take into account water and food scarcity, and where obesity and malnutrition go hand in hand.
in writing. ‒ my negative vote is due to the strong criticisms related to expo 2015. exploited workers, opaque procurement, the preference of certain foods over others without adequate explanation and other problems linked to exposure led me to vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on expo 2015, which among other things urges the commission and the member states to use the theme of expo to affirm the right to adequate, healthy, sustainable and informed food. the milan world's fair is developing a theme of fundamental importance, not only for europe but for the whole world. feeding the planet is one of the greatest challenges we are about to face and it is necessary to put in place rapidly all the measures needed to guarantee food security, both from the point of view of production and supply. i personally believe that food safety cannot exist without good labelling and traceability rules, which are essential both for consumers to be aware of what they are buying and for the creation of a truly competitive and transparent market. convinced that expo is, on the one hand, a time for unity and sharing and a means of enrichment and reflection and, on the other hand, an instrument for economic recovery and employment, i strongly condemn any irrational gesture aimed at hindering its success. i hope that my region, my country and the european union will make the most of the opportunity that the exhibition offers them to improve the quality of life for all citizens of the world.
in writing. i did not vote in favour of the expo milano 2015 resolution because those amendments that called for the inclusion of the principles of transparency, sustainability and protection of small agricultural producers in the resolution were not passed. i voted in favour of those amendments which stress the need to promote a diet which is able to ensure a more rational and sustainable consumption of food resources. so no to those high-calorie foods, rich in fat, sugar and salt and lacking in micronutrients, which are the main causes of obesity. i regret that the amendments which highlighted the scandalous sponsorship of multinational corporations (mcdonald's, coca cola and nestlé ferrero), the main producers of junk food, notorious for not guaranteeing sustainable food, were not adopted. the expo should be an opportunity to discuss and share best practices in sustainable agriculture and promote small farms. i voted in favour of the amendment which denounced the mismanagement of contracts by allowing criminal organisations to infiltrate infrastructure works. i also voted in favour of the amendment which includes respect for social and labour rights within the principle of sustainability. it is not acceptable that paid employment should be replaced by precarious and 'voluntary' work.
in writing. ‒ on the eve of the opening of expo 2015, i voted in favour of the resolution on the themes of the milan world expo. this resolution has the merit of clearly highlighting key challenges in the food sector, such as the need to ensure high standards of food safety, to promote sustainable food practices, and to intervene effectively in the fight against food waste and malnutrition in the world. there are some serious paradoxes in international agri-food chains today that we have a duty to combat with the ultimate goal of more sustainable and effective management of scarce natural resources and greater transparency, traceability and fairness in the food supply chain. expo 2015 will be a great showcase for our country and for europe, but above all it will be a platform for meeting and exchanging good practices between countries and a concrete opportunity to make new commitments for greater sustainability, quality and safety of food supply chains.
in writing. i voted against the resolution adopted today by the european parliament, because the milan event is born as the highest moment of reflection on the theme of nutrition, but behind the "green" facade of expo the usual logic of profit and exploitation of resources, the environment and people is hidden. in particular, an important amendment proposed by my group was rejected because it criticised the choice of multinationals as official sponsors of expo, whose policies and products are in clear contrast to the promotion of healthy and sustainable food. nor has our call on the commission to orient the union's food policies towards forms of greater sustainability along the whole chain, favouring organic and biodynamic production and zero-mile distribution. it is clear that a resolution of this kind, which does not want to take account of economically and environmentally sustainable production, which does not want to promote local production, which does not oppose multinationals and genetically modified products, the main enemies of our quality food, cannot be supported by the five star movement.
in writing. ‒ the expo was advertised as a world showcase to prepare the relaunch of a country, italy, in a deep crisis. new concrete coats were preferred to the recovery, re-evaluation and development of what was already present on the site. waste has been preferred to sustainability and resource optimization. this is to the benefit of a few, as evidenced by investigations and inquiries that have revealed cases of corruption, mafia infiltration and squandering of public money. it is easy to compare this to the multinational companies that speculate on a globalized food system far from a healthy, balanced and sustainable diet, which contribute to penalizing local economies and small producers in the agri-food sector. the latter are the victims of the power of the big business groups that monopolize the large retailers and sponsor this international event. this unequal balance of power is further highlighted and amplified by the expo: another missed opportunity.
in writing. ‒ i can support the resolution as it is a detailed manifesto of the main 'key issues' in the agri-food sector. the main 'political' issues concerning food and its agricultural production are mentioned without, however, going into the substance.
in writing. ‒ expo milano will be a great showcase for italy and for europe. it will be an opportunity to combat food waste and fraud and to promote food education based on a healthy and balanced lifestyle. in this connection, i would like to stress that our challenge is not only against food shortages, which of course remain a top priority, but also against food abundance. finally, and i would like to say this particularly to those who are opposed, the expo will be an extraordinary opportunity even for the poorest countries, which will be present with clusters in which they will present their products. the nepal pavilion, completed thanks to the free work of other workers, is a particular symbol of a union of peoples who together can overcome even the most difficult challenges.
in writing. i am pleased to support the motion for a resolution on expo milano 2015, which was drafted by my colleague paolo de castro with great competence and expertise, considering the issue of food security and the right to food as mentioned in the universal declaration of human rights in 1948 as a priority and topical issue today as never before, and considering expo milano a great opportunity to inform, promote and reflect on all that is necessary and possible to do, at national and european level, for a better and correct management of resources to combat hunger and malnutrition, deplorable food waste, unemployment and economic recession, through solid support for agriculture and fisheries, key sectors of employment and food security in many areas, especially in developing areas, in the world.
in writing. i am sure that the motion for a resolution on expo milano 2015 'feeding the planet, energy for life' represents a great opportunity for italy and europe to re-launch and to enhance its many productive, technological and scientific excellence. the themes covered are varied: the food production and distribution, the problem of food waste, the protection of biodiversity, the great challenge of sustainability, malnutrition and land grabbing. therefore, expo 2015 will allow to address these issues at the highest level of scientific knowledge.
in writing. ‒ expo milano 2015 provides the opportunity for the entire international community to reflect on the big issues related to nutrition, the environment and research. the european parliament has expressed its willingness to be involved in this great debate by this resolution. the problems of food scarcity and the unstoppable growth of the world's population require special attention. for these reasons i voted in favour of this text, which calls for the proper and responsible use of food and environmental resources.
in writing. ‒ this will be a very important week for lombardy, italy and the european union: on friday, expo 2015 will finally be opened in milan. the event, which is significant in itself, is of particular importance both for the theme chosen and for the particular historical moment in which it takes place. the theme 'feeding the planet, energy for life' aims to draw attention, through a series of thematic exhibitions, to food-related culture and traditions, raising the much-needed debate on sustainable global growth based on strengthening food security, preserving biodiversity and combating waste, malnutrition and child mortality. at the same time as expo, the adoption of the milan charter, an international agreement that aims to combat the problem of environmental sustainability, is a clear example of the fact that the mission of the event will not end on october 31, but that on the contrary expo milano wants to be the beginning of a long journey with high objectives. the unique structure of the expo makes it a truly european event: for six months, the pavilions of 137 countries will not be in milan, but in the european union as a whole.
in writing. ‒ considering that the theme of expo milano 2015 is 'feeding the planet, energy for life' and that the event can give a strong impetus to the debate aimed at improving food production and distribution, addressing the problem of food waste, promoting and developing already existing positive approaches to meet the challenge of food insecurity, malnutrition and malnutrition, as well as creating a balance between the availability and consumption of resources, i decided to support the resolution, considering that the fight against malnutrition and ensuring universal access to adequate nutritious food should continue to be a key objective of the post-2015 agenda in the context of the goal of the elimination of hunger, specifically calling for the need to end all forms of malnutrition by 2030.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution because the theme of the 2015 world expo offers the european union an opportunity to reflect on the current food landscape. nearly a billion people are undernourished, while a third of the food produced worldwide is wasted. in the light of this stark contrast, i believe that europe must make food security one of its priorities, especially in conjunction with the european year of development. the member states must act on two fronts: introduce measures for more sustainable agriculture and measures to reduce food waste, in order to eradicate hunger and ensure a fair extension of the human right to food. i am convinced that expo milano can be an important forum for meeting, fostering the generation of ideas and the exchange of good practice between european and global voices.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for the work he has done and hope that i have made a contribution.
in writing. ‒ expo milano 2015, in addition to being a great opportunity to revive the city of milan and the whole of italy, must first of all be a great opportunity to revive the international fight against hunger, against the problem of malnutrition, malnutrition and obesity. i voted in favour of this resolution to ask the european commission, the council and all the participating states to use the theme of expo 'feeding the planet, energy for life' to set commitments to uphold the right to adequate, healthy, sustainable and informed food. the european union, which will be represented at the exhibition with its own pavilion, must do more to find solutions to the pressing problems affecting the entire food supply chain. too many people in europe and the world still live below the poverty line, but at the same time 30% of the world's food is wasted and hunger coexists with paradoxical levels of obesity. the eu must draw real contributions from the milan event to the global challenge of food security.
in writing. ‒ the theme chosen for the expo is of the utmost importance to make everyone aware of the absolute priority importance of food and nutrition for the planet. i hope that solutions will be found to improve food production and distribution, to reduce waste in the industrialized countries and to consciously address the challenges of food security, malnutrition and the balance between the availability and consumption of resources. the expo is a global and worldwide platform where different stakeholders are given the opportunity to come together to find valid solutions to the great challenges of nutrition and food in a world where there are still strong contradictions between people who are malnourished and others who suffer from health disorders due to overeating. let us remember that according to fao estimates, the world's population will increase rapidly and the increase in food production will not be enough to ensure food security for all. this is the main challenge that must be faced and solved.
in writing. ‒ the text of the resolution, which i voted in favour of, is the result of the european parliament's desire to give a strong impetus to the debate on improving food production and distribution. we have therefore asked the european commission to tackle more concretely the problem of food waste, malnutrition and the balance between the food available and its consumption. we are in a world where many people are starving and many more are suffering from the opposite problem, and that should not be happening.
in writing. i decided to vote in favour because the resolution is a detailed manifesto of the main 'key issues' in the agri-food sector and mentions the main 'political' issues concerning food and its agricultural production. that said, there are still a number of unknowns about expo, starting with how well it will be able to address the "real" issue, to chart a path for a sustainable response to the issue of food supply, which urgently needs innovation from the agricultural and agro-industrial supply chain. the imbalances between the various actors in the food chain and the access to food of the people of developing countries should be some of the issues to be tackled with great seriousness.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on expo milano 2015, to ask the commission to use this event as a moment to disseminate european best practice in nutrition and food safety, also in the light of the fact that agriculture is a strategic sector of the eu which requires a lot of eu resources. we have the opportunity today to make the world aware of the very high safety standards of european production and the quality and health of our food. i also urge the union to continue to promote and implement sustainable agri-food policies that encourage lower production costs, less food waste, the transfer of technological innovations and efficient use of energy resources.
in writing. ‒ i did not vote in favour of the resolution on expo milano 2015 because those amendments which called for the inclusion in the resolution of the principles of transparency, sustainability and protection of small farmers were not passed. i voted in favour of those amendments which stressed the need to promote a diet which is able to ensure a more rational and sustainable consumption of food resources. so no to those high-calorie foods, rich in fat, sugar and salt and lacking in micronutrients, which are the main causes of obesity. i therefore regret that the amendments which highlighted the scandalous sponsorship of multinational corporations (mcdonald's, coca cola and nestlé ferrero), the main producers of junk food, notorious for not guaranteeing sustainable food, were not passed. the expo should be an opportunity to discuss and share best practices in sustainable agriculture and promote small farms. i voted in favour of the amendment which denounced the mismanagement of contracts by allowing criminal organisations to infiltrate infrastructure works. i also voted in favour of the amendment which includes respect for social and labour rights within the principle of sustainability. it is not acceptable that paid employment should be replaced by precarious and 'voluntary' work.
in writing. i voted against the motion for a resolution because three very important key points were not passed. parliament did not object to the fact that expo 2015 is sponsored by international companies such as mcdonald's and coca cola, which produce foods that are high in fat and low in micronutrients, in contrast to the need to promote healthier eating behaviour. the amendment proposed by our group, which was initially passed to the committee on agriculture and was withdrawn at the plenary stage, called on the commission to orient eu food policies towards forms of greater sustainability along the whole supply chain, favouring 'zero-kilometre' distribution and organic and biodynamic production. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. for the reasons stated above, i did not support the report.
in writing. ‒ i think it is frankly inappropriate that the expo in milan, whose theme is "feeding the planet: energy for life", uses as its sponsor mcdonald's, a company that offends and ridicules the flagship of italian gastronomy and that is certainly not one of the symbols of adequate, healthy, sustainable and informed nutrition promoted by the expo. this universal exposition could have been a great opportunity for italy, a way to attract investment and give a boost to the economy, but unfortunately, soon there were malicious infiltrations, lobbying interests and contracts under investigation. the initial project seemed designed to create a widespread and sustainable expo, but unfortunately it was not so: over two million square metres of land and hundreds of kilometres of motorways have been cemented, when i would have expected more renovation and reuse of abandoned buildings, redevelopment of derelict areas and use of existing exhibition spaces. it could have been an opportunity to turn milan into an example for others, to which citizens could contribute with pride, but instead it is turning out to be a speculative finance operation.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution milano expo 2015, a document that addresses food issues with a multidimensional approach. i think it is appropriate to urge the commission to come forward with policies that ensure the stability and sustainability of agricultural production systems and promote a more efficient use of resources. i conclude by wishing that the commission, together with the fao, will do its utmost to encourage the worldwide implementation of the guidelines for responsible governance of land, fisheries and forest ownership in the context of national food security.
in writing. i voted against the resolution on expo 2015 because the final text is unfortunately unsatisfactory in many respects. in the face of the call for the right principles, such as environmental and social sustainability and the promotion of healthier lifestyles, i regret that parliament has not had the courage to accept my group's proposal to censure the fact that the sponsors of this initiative include, paradoxically, multinational companies such as mcdonald's and coca cola, which are the very expression of the eating habits that we want to correct. the same applies to an amendment which explicitly called for the non-use of gmos when talking about innovation in the sector, and to an amendment which we have tabled and which was already approved by the agri committee, which sought to support the organic and biodynamic food chain. this approach cannot receive my support.
in writing. ‒ the resolution is balanced and non-controversial. i strongly condemn the violence perpetrated by boko haram in nigeria and urge europe and the international community to assist the government of that country in its fight against islamic terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution because i strongly believe that it is our duty to take action against the barbaric terrorist activities of boko haram and, therefore, that we must support the people of nigeria in their effort to fight all forms of terrorism in their country.
in writing. - i vote for it. against boko haram and the violence inflicted on christians in nigeria.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in nigeria to call on the newly elected president muhammadu buhari to mobilise all the resources necessary to end the violence perpetrated by boko haram, to restore stability and security throughout the country and to address the root causes of terrorism, in particular by taking stronger action to combat internal corruption, mismanagement and inefficiencies within public institutions and the military, which are at the root of his inability to deal with the scourge of boko haram in the north of the country. i also urge the international community to do more to assist the nigerian government in its fight against boko haram. i support in this respect the proposal by chancellor merkel that the eu should cooperate in financing an african military mission in nigeria to combat the jihadist terrorism of boko haram.
in writing. ‒ nigeria plays a key role in regional and african politics and is a driver of regional integration through the economic community of west african states. however, due to the violence perpetrated by the terrorist organisation boko haram and the high social disparity, the region is still highly destabilised. i therefore welcome the strengthening of cooperation with the nigerian authorities in the fight against terrorism and have decided to vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i strongly agree with the position of this parliament when it states that boko haram cannot be defeated only with military interventions and that social integration measures are fundamental and must be promoted. as europeans we can play an important role in this sense. we can do more than just ask european oil companies based in nigeria to respect international standards, to respect the local population and to avoid damaging the environment. we have to be sure that the double standards effect is avoided. one way to obtain this is to make a company liable and legally responsible not only before nigerian courts but also before european courts. this would set a positive example in the country and help promote social integration.
in writing. ‒ the resolution rightly condemns the violence perpetrated by boko haram which aims to establish a fully islamic state in northern nigeria by introducing sharia law. but the eu must do much more!
in writing. in approving the resolution on the situation in nigeria, i too wish to reiterate our firm condemnation of the continuing and increasingly alarming acts of violence against defenseless populations, which have resulted in thousands of deaths and injuries and hundreds of thousands of displaced persons. i am in solidarity with the nigerian people in their determination to fight all forms of terrorism in the country, after such tragic incidents which have not spared minors, women and the elderly and which have hit minorities, especially christians, so hard.
in writing. ‒ the terrorist group boko haram has taken control of several cities in northeastern nigeria. its violence has resulted in the deaths of more than 22,000 people since 2009. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european parliament must not miss an opportunity to express its disapproval of any action which is concerned with the safety and well-being of citizens everywhere. i particularly shared the appeal to the newly elected nigerian president, who during the election campaign pledged to mobilise all possible resources in the name of the will to put an end to the violence perpetrated by boko haram. the european parliament hopes that he will honour his commitment without reservation.
in writing. - a year ago, more than 270 girls were abducted from a public school in chibok by the terrorist group boko haram. since then, the country has been plagued by violence and kidnappings, which have made the last months of the election campaign bloody. we strongly condemn all the violence, the thousands of dead, wounded and displaced. we deplore the slaughter of men, women and children. we call on the newly elected president to keep all his election promises, ending the boko haram violence, restoring security throughout the country and, in particular, taking stronger action in the fight against internal corruption, mismanagement and inefficiencies in public institutions and the military. we call on the new nigerian authorities to adopt a road map for the social and economic development of the northern and southern states, to tackle the problems of poverty and inequality, to promote a fair distribution of oil revenues, which are often a cause of the spiral of violence. the european union will have to use all its instruments to promote these measures, including the possibility of resorting to crisis management instruments, taking into account the key role that nigeria plays in that regional context.
in writing. ‒ considering that the peace and stability of nigeria is increasingly threatened by the islamist militant group boko haram, which has been wreaking havoc in the country since 2009 by carrying out bombings, assassinations and kidnappings in an attempt to impose a strict form of sharia law, overthrow the government and create an islamic state, i have decided to vote in favour of the resolution as i believe that the international community must react and not stand idly by in the face of such acts of violence. finally, i believe that the european union and its member states must respect their commitment to provide various forms of political, development and humanitarian aid to the country and its people and not leave them alone in the fight against the threat of boko haram.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the statements by the vice-president/high representative on the situation in nigeria, having regard to the statements by the un secretary-general on the situation in nigeria, considering that nigeria is the largest economy on the african continent and one of the eu's main trading partners and that between 2009 and 2013 eu aid to nigeria amounted to some eur 700 million, of which eur 200 million was earmarked for peace and stability building, fighting poverty and creating employment opportunities for young people (former militants) in the niger delta, i would therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the attacks by boko haram militants between 3 and 8 january 2015, which targeted the town of baga and 16 surrounding towns and villages in northeastern nigeria, destroying nearly 3,700 structures and killing more than 2,000 people, represented the deadliest massacre by the terrorist group, which is engaged in a full-scale war with the nigerian government. this resolution expresses total condemnation of the barbarism and atrocities which the nigerian people, without any discrimination - christians, muslims, teachers, students, farmers, shopkeepers, women and children - have been forced to endure for too long, and expresses support for the new government and the new president buhari elected on 14 february, whose victory represents a turning point for nigeria and for the whole of africa. the eu will support the new government to take greater responsibility in taking concrete action to combat terrorism, corruption, poverty and inequalities in the country and to give back a future and hope to the nigerian people.
in writing. ‒ i am very concerned about the recent escalation of violence in nigeria by the terrorist sect boko haram, which indiscriminately targets civilians, government and military targets with attacks carried out with firearms and bombs, causing massacres of men, women and children and a high number of displaced persons. the newly elected president must take drastic action to end the violence that the boko haram sect is perpetrating in the country. nigeria needs to restore a climate of stability and security and take measures to combat corruption and inefficiency in public institutions, which are one of the main causes of the boko haram outbreak. i hope that the nigerian authorities will respond decisively to the terrorist threat and address the issues of primary need for the country, such as poverty and existing inequality, child labour and access to health care, by establishing a roadmap for more evenly developing the southern and northern parts of the country.
in writing. ‒ what is happening in nigeria is so serious that the european parliament could not help but intervene. i have contributed to this by voting in favour of this resolution condemning the various attacks by boko haram and their desire to establish a fully islamic state, whereas not all people are islamic. we must remember that nigeria is the largest economy in the african continent and a state cannot be destroyed because of the atrocities committed by these terrorists. parliament therefore called on the new president to honour all the good promises made during the election campaign and to put an end to the atrocities perpetrated by boko haram.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, nusa kambangan is probably not on the tourist brochures of indonesia and it is here, in the so-called death valley, that convicts are escorted from maximum security cells; they wear white suits and are put in front of the firing squad, and they can then choose to have their eyes blindfolded, sit, kneel or stand, this is the humanity that is granted to them. you see, we cannot judge trials, but we can judge the death penalty as a punishment and therefore condemn it as an italian, as a european but above all as a human being. there is no commercial interest which should and can be sacrificed to a strenuous and continuous struggle not only for a moratorium on it but for its abolition, because as rémy de gourmont said in his unpublished thoughts, it is quite evident that those who support the death penalty today have much more affinity with murderers than those who oppose it.
author.– mr president, while we must not politically exploit nadiya savchenko’s story, and though her case is extremely grave as it appears that there are serious human rights violations, parliament must not use it as an excuse to attack and condemn russia for other reasons. on the contrary, it is a chance to reaffirm and promote a strong belief in the principle of fair trials and human and dignified conditions of detention. this does not seem to be guaranteed in this case. savchenko is protesting with passive resistance from prison. in her most recent letter, dated 27 april 2015, she says ‘please do not write letters asking me to live and eat. hunger is the only way i have to fight the lawlessness of the russian authorities. so do not ask me to lay it down’. so let us defend the principle of fair trial and the rule of law. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
answer to a blue-card question. i think, mr president, that we unfortunately use the human rights debate to bring up political cases which differ greatly depending on the country in question. so any violation that is condemnable for the sake of it and that concerns russia is being grossly exaggerated. if we talk about other countries that are our partners because they are committing the same number of violations, it is better not to talk about them. that is the criticism i was making. we try to keep a consistent opinion of everyone.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to stress that we are dealing with a joint resolution, which is the most important thing, and that is why i cannot understand mr preda's polemic with the socialists, because i consider it to be a pointless polemic. the case of nadija savchenko is emblematic of the russian attitude to the ukrainian conflict. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia. the charges themselves do not seem to be founded at all. we must therefore react, and we are doing so seriously with this resolution, calling for the full implementation of the minsk agreements and the unconditional release of savchenko. that is what we are asking for as a parliament and i think it is worth stressing that.
author.– mr president, there is an ongoing denial of humanitarian access to the refugees living in the yarmouk camp by the syrian regime and other belligerents. the situation is worsened by the fact that unrwa is gravely undermined by chronic underfunding for humanitarian interventions in yarmouk. with this resolution parliament calls for the european union to contribute to joint efforts to mitigate the humanitarian crisis and play a role in helping neighbouring countries to provide shelter for refugees fleeing the conflict in syria. a fundamental step in this direction is to take measures to avoid people risking their lives on boats in the mediterranean sea, and to create safe ways for them to reach europe, such as humanitarian visas and corridors.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to be destiny that yarmouk should be a place of history. nearly 1,400 years ago, a decisive battle was fought there between the byzantines and the real caliphate, today there is a much more perverse one in which the parties are increasingly confused. to know what it's like in yarmouk, you turn off the lights, the water, the heating, you eat once a day and live in the dark, so a refugee rightly describes daily life in that camp. the eu is providing only 2.5 of the 30 million needed, according to unrwa estimates, to finance the management of the ongoing humanitarian crisis. in yarmouk people are suffering and dying and the fact that our states and the arab states are not fulfilling their commitments is a shame that weighs like a stone on our consciences, but i also remember that if we had enforced the un resolutions, if we had really pushed as a union to solve the palestinian question and the shame of gaza with a two-state solution, yarmouk would not exist today and so perhaps we also have much to protest to our conscience.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since 1957 150 000 palestinians have found refuge in the yarmouk refugee camp on the outskirts of damascus in syria. on april 1st, the camp was occupied by isis guerrillas and the refugees have been living under government missiles and the terror that the islamic state militants are spreading among the starving and fearful population for days. the situation in the refugee camp is beyond inhuman. since the start of the clashes, food, water and medicine have not arrived, and thousands of palestinians, including hundreds of children, are at risk of dying of hunger and thirst, not to mention the summary executions of the last few days. unicef is concerned about the fate of the 3,500 children still in the camp. the un and the international community must be concerned with providing protection and meeting the humanitarian needs of the palestinian refugees in yarmouk and all other camps. europe and the international community must quickly get all parties to the conflict to agree to a ceasefire that will allow aid to be brought into yarmouk and the evacuation of children and wounded families.
author.– mr president, as regards algeria, we are talking about a country where the state of emergency was lifted in 2011. however, there are still serious human rights violations with regard to the freedom of expression, the freedom of association and the freedom of assembly. unauthorised demonstrations are still equated to ‘illegal gatherings’ and participants can be taken to court and can be sentenced to prison for terms ranging from 2 months to 5 years. this is why we strongly condemn the arrests and ask for the immediate release of all human rights defenders and activists that have been jailed, including the ones who were protesting against shale gas operations. the geographical importance of algeria makes stability and the full respect of human rights even more essential as the country can be fundamental to guaranteeing political stability in the whole north african region. this is a historical moment in which it is necessary to have proper certainties in that area.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, i wish to speak in french this time, and i will not do so to make a fool of myself. what is happening today in algeria? the problem with europe is that when we think of algeria, we often think of security and energy, but we forget about human rights. four years after the so-called arab spring, human rights defenders in that country are suffering in their struggle for democracy. we can't tolerate this anymore. freedom of speech, freedom of opinion, freedom of association, all political and social freedoms are not options. these are categorical imperatives. that is why we must push forward our dialogue, our partnership, our association agreement on both sides of the mediterranean. but we also need to send a very clear message to the algerian government and the algerian people. the message to the government is that it must fulfil its international obligations and follow the path of criminal, constitutional, economic and social reforms. the message to the algerian people is very simple and very strong: you are not alone!
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, the question i wanted to ask you is as follows: in the light of the serious human rights situation in the country, which i think we all agree on, what do you think of the protest that has been made by many inhabitants of algeria, especially in the south, against shale gas? do you agree with me that this is a just and proper protest and that the people have a right to choose the energy policy of the country?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking because the italian newspapers this morning are reporting a very serious fact: in budapest since last july, there's a 33-year-old man who's been living under death threats, death threats because he's a gay activist. there are former jobbik mps who constantly threaten him; the internet sites of these parties in that country put a bounty of 10,000 euros on his life. yesterday, mr president, we celebrated the world day against homophobia and transphobia. it is not acceptable that in a european country there is a death threat to a young man just because he is a gay activist. next july , we 'll have the pride: i call on you, mr president, and all your colleagues in this house to come to budapest and join us in condemning these threats which are intolerable in our europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the starting point, in my view, is the excellent work that has been done in the preparation of this report, because it respects the objective we have to set ourselves in the face of the underlying situation, which is critical. the aim is to restore a climate of trust. if we were to decide to use psychological terrorism in the face of these scandals, which are reprehensible, we would be abandoning our political task. so i congratulate the rapporteur and those who have supported this work, which has as its point of balance, for example, in my view, the excellent choice of identifying what are the distinctions between critical indices and indices that are not considered as such. it 's clear: my country, italy, has also had a major difficulty at this stage, for example, with a prosecutor who, in view of the risks associated with the possible damage to two and a half million families, has launched an international inquiry involving major european institutions. it's true, in italy there is discussion that deutsche bank would be exposed to a quantity of derivatives that is five times the gdp of the eurozone, fine, but the approach is this: the solution to the problem, not the activation of further terror, of further mistrust. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. on rübig, i am happy to answer your question. i share the concern about the effects that such a procedure may have on smes, on small and mediumsized enterprises, and sometimes i find it difficult to answer this question because, unfortunately, we have always seen good intentions have consequences that are not up to our standards. i think this is the right road. i think the first concern we must have is to force the credit institutions of the european union to put small and mediumsized enterprises back at the centre of their attention. what do you mean, "what"? how can this be achieved? it also goes through a radical overhaul of the governance structure of credit institutions at the european level, not just through the redefinition of financial benchmarks.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the financial markets have repeatedly seen the manipulation of reference values for the determination of interest rates such as libor and euribor. such manipulation, by demonstrating that benchmarks can be subject to conflicts of interest and vulnerability, is a major driver of economic imbalances and causes considerable losses to consumers and investors, as well as destroying citizens' confidence in the financial sector. it is therefore clearly appropriate to restore confidence in the benchmarks, but not to confine ourselves to simply recognising the illegality of such behaviour. i therefore agree with the report, which considers that governance measures need to be improved and conflicts of interest mitigated, and which also aims to enhance transparency and the implementation of access to a wide variety of values by applying governance requirements in a proportionate manner. increased, harmonised and flexible availability of benchmarks is needed to reduce the systemic importance of some large values, so as to allow, in a proportionate and transparent way, all those who do business, invest, take a risk, obtain credit, to make informed decisions every day.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs and the non-governmental organisations who have helped to draw up this report. we are talking about development finance and the addis ababa conference. it is important that we come to this conference with a strong, decisive and clear position because, probably, it is not yet very clear, when discussing the problems of the world, the importance of development cooperation. today, as today, we are constantly witnessing tragedies linked to immigration, linked precisely to the trafficking of people and to the continuous deaths in the mediterranean. perhaps if more attention had been paid to development cooperation in the developing countries, in the countries of refuge, in the countries of transit, these tragedies could have been dealt with differently. we know very well - it is useless to go around - that very often our own countries go to these countries to exploit resources, to generate civil wars. and then we find ourselves, as mr neuser rightly said, talking about official development finance with the richest countries in europe, including germany, which does not even want to put in 0.7% of gross national income and is limited to 0.4. we therefore hope that the council will reach a common position and that this type of assistance will be made compulsory. i believe that in addition to official financing there is a kind of unconventional financing, alternative financing which the states support when requested by the multinationals of the same states who have an interest in going to create their own type of development in these countries. we hope that this will be a step towards decisive action by this conference.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too congratulate the rapporteur and those who have worked with him on this report. the year 2015 could be a turning point. in september, at the un, we should agree on new sustainable development goals that apply to everyone. the new agenda must be ambitious, but to make sure that these goals are actually achieved, including the unfinished work of the millennium development goals, we must have the resources to do so. the report by mr silva pereira makes this quite clear: the success of the post-2015 agenda will also depend on the level of ambition demonstrated at the addis ababa conference. and if we are to claim europe's primacy as the leading donor, we must commit ourselves once again to devoting 0.7% of gross national income to official development aid, presenting a timetable of steps to achieve this objective, which must not be conditioned by other donors. equally important, as the report points out, is the mobilisation of national resources, the most important source of finance for developing countries; we must strengthen international cooperation in tax matters and aid to this end: this is essential not only for achieving new objectives but also for overcoming dependence on foreign aid in the long term. the commission has also been very active in the fight against fraud, and i am sure that the commission will be very active in this area. the fight against these practices must be a priority for the european union. i have heard what the commissioner has said, and we will certainly talk about it again, but i think it is important that we finally talk about a genuine intergovernmental body where developing countries can participate on equal terms in rewriting the global tax rules.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the international community must present itself in addis ababa with its papers in order, otherwise it will not be credible in international peace and development policy. it is a vital problem for the developed world to find a way for a more equitable development to stop the flows of migration, to fight against poverty and hunger. we therefore insist, knowing the perplexities of governments, that each country should respect the commitments made 10 years ago, namely to reach 0.7 for the least developed countries. alongside public resources, there is a need for the proper and useful mobilisation of private investment resources to create productive realities in the least developed countries, to support local micro-entrepreneurship (what women's cooperatives in africa do and can do!) and to find all the resources on the ground to grow sustainably. we must also support the return of migrants to their own countries with productive initiatives, exploiting the skills acquired here, and we must look closely at what happens to remittances so that this is not a matter of exploitation and reduction of resources that can be put back to productive use in these countries. i'd like to talk about corruption, but there's no time: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe has set itself a very ambitious goal: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the development of the environment and the protection of the environment. the numbers tell us that this can't be a target that just sits on paper. in the european year of development, efforts must be concentrated on supporting the 1.5 billion people who still live in extreme poverty. but the commitment must be precise: the most resilient countries must meet their commitment to allocate 0.7 per cent of their gross national income to official development assistance. the international forum in addis ababa in july is an opportunity to sign these commitments. the european countries are the largest donors of development aid and it is right that they should lead the financing process for these countries. it is clear that funds - without an effective and efficient investment strategy in education, agriculture, training - risk ending up in the cycle of corruption and illicit trafficking, risk benefiting the oligarchies that are forcing these very countries into poverty.
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank the parliament for this rich and engaging discussion. i commend and congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs once again for this excellent report. a number of important points have been raised here today, and i have taken good note of them. today’s discussion, along with the report, is a very welcome and useful contribution to our ongoing discussion with the member states in order to finalise a compelling eu position ahead of this year’s conferences. as confirmed by the commission in our february communication, the commission is of the opinion that the european union should maintain its collective commitment to achieving the 0.7% of gni target for oda and should also commit to the 0.15-0.20% of gni as the oda target for the least developed countries. i believe the oda commitment matters. it is important for our own development credibility, as well as for the success of the international conferences in addis ababa, new york and paris this year. at the same time, we must recognise that oda alone will not be nearly enough to finance such a far-reaching, broad new global development agenda. therefore we must envisage a new, more strategic and functional additional role for oda by using it in a more catalytic manner to engage and leverage other financial and non-financial means of implementation that would suffice to cover such a demanding new sdg agenda. i think that, above all, today’s debate has underlined that both the commission and parliament share a firm desire to ensure that the european union plays a leading role in supporting the adoption and implementation of a truly transformative post-2015 agenda, by raising the global level of ambition. it is in this way that we should be able to claim that the european union is not only the biggest player in global development cooperation, but also the best – the most effective – player. i will continue to work with fellow commissioners, the european parliament and member states to ensure that the european union is well positioned to do so.
in writing. it is easy for the collective consciousness to reject the idea that 1.5 billion people live in extreme poverty, with deprivation of all kinds in health, education and living standards. it is more difficult, however, to end this situation gradually, with structured interventions that use sufficient resources at the global level. the third international conference on development finance in addis ababa next july has the ambitious task of setting the level of intervention on the next agenda on the subject. i agree with the report that welcomes the preliminary draft outcome document of the third conference. i am aware that the right conditions for the eradication of poverty and inequality can be achieved above all by a universal, holistic and integrated approach, including the control and monitoring by the commission of the financing of aid programmes and projects in the fields of health, education, energy, water supply and infrastructure. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european people are unaware that the member states have received over the last 10 years 2 billion euros from tobacco companies to fight cigarette smuggling. they also do not know that a large proportion of smuggled cigarettes come directly from tobacco companies. and they don't know that in 2000, the european commission had launched various legal actions against philip morris, which were dropped in 2004 after philip morris agreed to give one billion euros over 12 years to europe. but above all, they do not know - and neither do we in this house - how the member states actually spent this money. but what we do know is that tobacco smoking is the second leading cause of death in the world and the leading cause of preventable death. smoking kills more than 80 000 people in italy and 5.4 million people worldwide every year. it would seem malicious for the member states and the commission to accept money from tobacco companies to enable them to continue to sell tobacco. where and how was this money spent?
in writing. member states have received €2 billion from tobacco companies over the past decade to fight cigarette smuggling. this huge contribution comes from agreements reached following a legal action brought by the european commission against philip morris, which was abandoned in 2004 after philip morris agreed to give €1 billion over 12 years to europe. later, other large tobacco companies entered into similar agreements. 90% of these funds were distributed to the member states, but it remains unknown how they actually used these funds. smoking is the leading preventable cause of death in the eu and causes about 700 000 deaths every year. the treatment of patients with diseases attributable to tobacco smoking costs hospitals around eur 3.4 billion, while the total healthcare costs are over eur 7.5 billion. the commission does not yet know whether it will renew these agreements: in any case, i think that the rules on data transparency need to be revised. where have these funds been spent? what action have member states taken to prevent the circulation of contraband and counterfeit goods? how many of the seized cigarettes came directly from the manufacturing companies?
the agenda includes the commission statement on vat rules and the mini-one-stop shop for vat on digital services, books and newspapers in the eu (2015/2682 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner ansip, we were delighted to hear you speak last week in brussels. we believe that the digital single market cannot flourish unless the vat rates applied to goods and services purchased on the web are made uniform. we are therefore in favour of a reduced vat rate also for digital goods and services such as e-books, and therefore of revising the european vat directive as early as 2015. we believe that it is right that vat on such purchases should be paid in the member state of destination of the purchaser, as is currently the case, but we also believe that it is necessary that this rate should be uniform throughout the european union. the latter is a necessary condition for a rapid elimination of the problematic geoblocking, which means that some content is available in some member states and not in others. geoblocking, as things stand, is the only way that some companies, especially the smallest, medium-sized companies and start-ups, can avoid dealing with 28 different vat regimes. today's debate is an opportunity to highlight the urgency of moving as soon as possible towards a uniform reduced rate for digital services, e-books, books and newspapers. this would be an immediate benefit for businesses and citizens and would accelerate the long and complex journey just started towards the digital single market. we hope that no more valuable time is lost. many european companies are failing in favour of non-european competitors.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i can only add my appreciation to what has already been said by my colleagues for the commission's openness in reiterating the public commitment made by president juncker on the issue of vat on digital products, as well as the statements made at the time of his inauguration on other obstacles to the creation of the digital single market. but now we must translate these commitments into real action, and we must do so quickly. that is the message which this parliament is unanimously sending to the commission this evening, because the digital single market is the real challenge facing the european union in the near future, perhaps as great as the creation of the single market. digital can be the key to europe's recovery in competitiveness and innovation, but it also plays a central role in the global cultural sphere. we cannot think of working towards this goal if we do not yet see effective action to break down anachronistic barriers such as the permanence of a different vat between a paper book and a digital book. this debate is fundamental for the european union because we are not discussing a technical issue, but a cultural one, a future one, the promotion and practical implementation of unity in diversity, which is our dna as european citizens. we have our eyes on the future, but we are held back by the shackles and fetters of a bygone age, and we must cut them off in order to move forward. to take the lead in this digital revolution we are going through, the european union must ensure that it has the right tools and no brakes that slow down our progress. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i hope that the commission will be able to find the most appropriate solutions quickly. parliament will support this effort because getting closer to the citizens also involves these initiatives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, brianza, and vimercatti in particular, is a productive district where most of the high-technology companies are concentrated, a potential diamond in the rough of our industry, but which has been overwhelmed by the crisis for years. this area has developed a very good mix of small businesses and large multinationals, which are however facing the crisis through relocation actions with decisions taken at the table without a restructuring plan. these decisions are costing italy and europe a fortune in terms of know-how and technology. this is not a national issue but a deeply european one, especially at a time when we are investing in a new strategy for the digital single market. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we shall be voting on an own-initiative report from the european parliament which aims to increase patient safety in health care and to combat with all possible energy the great threat posed by the growth of resistance to antimicrobials. when it comes to patient safety, the ecdc says that about 10 percent of those who are admitted to hospital experience harm or adverse events that need to be prevented. we have tried to identify the causes of this and, consequently, to take the most appropriate action to prevent medical errors and the risk of hospital infections. i would like to mention a few of the most important points: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health of the population is protected, and that the health of the population is protected. if we are talking about the rise in antimicrobial resistance, we must remember that 25 000 citizens of the european union die every year as a result of this and the figures are bound to increase dramatically both in terms of human lives and in terms of economic costs. it should also be remembered that an increasing number of animals are being infected with bacteria resistant to antimicrobials and that this constitutes a risk in the consumption of animal meat. i will mention only a few of these measures: the importance of a commitment by the pharmaceutical industry to genuine research into new antimicrobial drugs and at the same time openness to research into new natural methods of combating drug resistance; the prohibition of online sales; the elimination of prophylactic use and the severe limitation of metaphylactic use in the veterinary sector. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups who have contributed constructively to the drafting of this own-initiative report and, finally, i am proud to be able to point out that this report also represents a first real application of democracy directed at the european parliament, because it has seen the participation of some citizens who have proposed their amendments online, which have then been voted on and included in the final text which you will vote on tomorrow. thank you all for your contributions.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. this is an important opportunity and we cannot squander it, we cannot squander it by bluffing parliament. you know perfectly well, as do your colleagues, that there is a link between the extraction of minerals and the financing of armed militias, and that link must be broken because breaking it would mean cutting off the economic funding that fuels the guerrillas. breaking this link would also help to limit the heinous violence against women and children who are used by warlords as virtual slaves to work in the mines. to do that, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we need mandatory traceability of minerals throughout the whole chain of production and trade. we socialists are not prepared to support a fetish regulation, a bluff, a slap in the face to the lords of death and the big financial interests. with tomorrow's vote on the table, there is already a possible compromise solution which represents a point of balance between the different positions of the political groups and which also takes account of the legitimate needs of small and mediumsized enterprises and micro-enterprises. i therefore appeal to all members, regardless of their political colour, because the credibility of the whole parliament is at stake. we are facing a major turning point in africa and other parts of the world: let's not waste this opportunity.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this telephone is stained with blood, this computer is stained with blood, all the technology we use is stained with blood, and that is because the minerals we use in components and electronics are mined in warring countries where, as we have said, they finance human rights abuses, killings and mutilations. we have worked to create a mandatory, responsible and effective system that will allow us to know exactly which products are blood-soaked and which are not. this is a system which does not burden small and mediumsized enterprises but forces the multinational electronics companies to face up to their responsibilities. this system is not a bureaucratic burden, it is a system that forces us all to open our eyes. ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we have a very important vote: we're going to vote on a regulation, and if we have the courage to do it the right way, we may not save the world, but we will certainly help make it a better place.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we must recognize the great emotional burden this problem poses and that it in some way conditions the comparison. it is clear that we are all, without distinction, against armed groups, against the markets of death, against the importation of materials or elements deriving from this situation and from these conflicts. but at the same time, we have a great responsibility. we must take on the burden of evaluating, of examining, of mediating in relation to a new system and in relation to the effects which this new system must have. it is obvious that we must look for the best solution. perhaps, or rather certainly, it is not enough to identify smelters and refiners at source; perhaps not enough, certainly not enough, the number that has been identified. we must go further, we must make it compulsory that those who have to self-certify in the chain can then refer to that self-certification, so that there is legitimacy, transparency and truthfulness in relation to what the system should be. but i believe that the rapporteur, mr winkler, has worked in this direction, and is working in this direction. i strongly support the action he has taken. i think we must not stop talking in these hours, in these minutes, because we have several obligations: we have an obligation, above all, not to bring in deadly products, but we also have an obligation to support a system, our small and mediumsized enterprises, which are already burdened, which are burdened by taxation, which are burdened by bureaucracy, which are burdened by a system which would certainly not allow them to achieve the best conditions to participate in a market which we very often recognize does not have very clear rules. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a blue-card question. mr. arena, you should know better and more about what happened in the united states. in the united states, after the introduction of compulsory self-certification, there was a collapse of the small and medium-sized enterprise system. in the united states they have had to further reform and revise this system. so it is a problem that exists anyway and we cannot help but take it into account. we are against the merchants of death. we are against the reporting that comes from these conflicts, but we are also in favour of our small and mediumsized enterprises, which need to understand better and more how to proceed in their own system. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
i'm asking for a blue card. on the other hand, you referred to the dodd-frank act: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he agrees that the system we have proposed is not a european dodd-frank? could you explain to me how (for a small and mediumsized enterprise, since we have estimated and it has been estimated that with the oecd guidelines - nothing we have invented - the bureaucratic burden would be reduced to about 2 hours of work per year compared to a mandatory system, which if small and mediumsized enterprises wanted to adopt would involve a cost of about 13 500 euros) how with a mandatory system we protect more than small and mediumsized enterprises, in your opinion?
answer to a blue-card question. i agree with you, mr. beghin: i think we must improve and we must help to improve, but i do not think that we will be able to improve only if we are in positions which are, let us say, without the possibility of mediation and confrontation. the great truth is that you, like me, who live in italy, know that our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who are micro-entrepreneurs, have to stand in long lines to pay their postal bills and taxes every day, they have to realize the condition of not being able to have an accountant to support their procedures, they have to realize the failure and closure every day of their business life. we simply want to try to understand what the best way of supporting mediation is today. we are not saying that there should not be proper protection of what it means to avoid armed conflict and death, but at the same time we ask that there should be self-certification ..... (the president cut off the speaker)
i'm asking for a blue card. i liked your tearful speech. i would like to ask you what you and your group will vote on both the text presented and the amendments which will be tabled by colleagues on mandatory legislation at all levels.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, tomorrow parliament is likely to adopt a hypocritical text which does not protect those who suffer serious violence and exploitation for the trade in minerals from conflict zones. unfortunately, madam president, what had to be done to make this proposal effective and consistent has not been done. it was not done by those who had a pharisaic text and it was not done by those who, with the best of intentions, failed to propose solutions that would have helped achieve the final objective. more and better had to be done, by providing for a mandatory regulation with clear certification and supply chain traceability procedures for all those who import such raw materials into europe, while limiting the impact on those down the chain and avoiding unnecessary bureaucratic burdens for micro-enterprises. we need a legal framework which really helps to break the unacceptable link between trade in these resources and the financing of armed groups in the wider context of a coherent cooperation policy. we are still in time to avoid writing a page unworthy of the history of this parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for once we have the opportunity here to change something in this unjust world against which we have made a thousand useless resolutions. please, let's not waste it on naivete or a false fear of damaging the economy. the right way forward, also for businesses, is through responsible trade, through mandatory action, not just for the smelters and refiners, which we have identified here as the weak link in the chain. and if they relocate, we'll be patient, but we'll leave everything else intact. commissioner malmström, i remember you ten years ago in this parliament as a colleague who was always at the forefront, fighting for human rights, for the protection of women and against all violence against children. i would like to appeal to your passion for human rights to give you more courage, more imagination in this matter for which you are directly responsible. i find it difficult to see it behind the words integrated approach, impact assessment, review clause, the usual bureaucratic formulae which we always use to shield ourselves from non-choice and which are often quite useless and empty, especially in the face of the violence and the difficulty of this situation. we don't use a solution that's fresh water compared to the problems. you're right, it depends on changing local conditions, but those will not change with volunteering. so please, let's do something more effective. i say this to parliament, to colleagues who are also sensitive to the appeals of ngos, bishops, to the appeals of their own conscience and i say this to you too, commissioner, i expect more from you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, how many times have we been moved by the images on television of the wars in africa, how many times have we spoken of blood diamonds, how many times have we spoken of blood raw materials! we shall be meeting in this parliament tomorrow to vote on this matter and we shall probably do so in a hypocritical manner, at least some of us will do so, making absurd excuses. because when i hear about "burdens on small and mediumsized enterprises", which are non-existent burdens, when i hear about micro-enterprises, which are excluded from the proposals that have been made, it means that we are finding absurd excuses, that they want to continue to justify blood and death. i believe that tomorrow's vote is a historic vote, one of those votes that are being recorded, so it is a call to the conscience of each of you. tomorrow we will decide whether we want to turn the page and seriously fight a problem that has been debated for a decade or whether we want to continue with this hypocritical attitude. i hope that tomorrow we will take seriously the words of dr mukwege, to whom we have given the sakharov prize, who came to the european parliament last week and said that this proposal is insufficient and that what is coming out of the inta committee is not good enough to deal with a problem of this magnitude. tomorrow we have this opportunity, colleagues: we are trying to be consistent and not just to be moved by television.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 20 may 2015, at 12.00 (et) written declarations (rule 162)
in writing. the important dossier on the proposal for a regulation establishing a european system of self-certification for importers of certain minerals or metals originating in conflict-affected and high-risk areas, known as conflict minerals, was discussed and voted at this plenary session. the debate and subsequent vote focused on one particular point which proved to be controversial: extend traceability (self-certification) obligations not only to smelters, refiners and importers of certain minerals, but also to small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in the supply chain. this was considered by many to be essential to make effective the traceability obligations imposed on the main actors in the supply chain, which would otherwise be de facto easily circumvented. a company would have every interest in, and the real possibility of, accessing the more advantageous black market if it were to act on a voluntary basis in declaring and guaranteeing the origin of minerals. the debate was very heated and emotional and some, entrenched behind a ghostly administrative burden for smes, wanted to oppose the obligation of traceability for smes as well. fortunately, and thanks also to the work of the five star movement, the result of the vote was positive, preventing such an absurdity.
the agenda includes the commission's statement on the decision on the digital single market.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our objective in the creation of a digital single market must be to enable citizens and businesses to benefit fully from it. the opportunities for the european union are immense and the consistent removal of the many barriers that still exist could be a real driver for innovation and investment in the digital economy. the commission is therefore proposing a multiannual strategy, which is inclusive and has three pillars, but it is also paying attention to the timing of the implementation of the measures outlined in the package. in this area, more than in others, it is essential that the legislative process be up to date. and if, today, only 7% of european smes sell beyond their own country's borders and only 15% of consumers buy online in a country other than their own, it is clear that there is a long way to go, and fast. developing the potential of e-commerce is a new frontier for european businesses and the effects for consumers will be tangible: lower prices, a wider choice and a higher quality of goods and services. it is necessary to simplify and make clearer the transactions between the different member states: too often, in fact, entrepreneurs and consumers give up because of some complexity. and this is just one of the areas where we need to work together to ensure that industry and citizens fully exploit the potential of new digital services and goods. building an environment conducive to the creation of new jobs and the revival of the european economy today also requires breaking down the barriers that restrict the digital market on our continent. the next important step is now the european council on 25 and 26 june, because we all know that to make all this happen it is necessary for the member states to do their part by investing in ict and digital services. an example? italy invested only 4,9% of its gross domestic product in 2014. more can and must be done.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is lagging behind the major economies of the world in terms of digital development. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the services it provides, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. the accessibility of services is important alongside innovation. we need real community coordination - i am thinking of the spectrum, commissioner - by supporting ict producers, focusing on interoperability and standardisation, and we need a recipe that can exploit all the growth potential, also in terms of development and industrial application, which we have not done in recent years. but the commission's strategy needs to be strengthened in terms of vision: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am pleased that the juncker commission is putting such a great deal of emphasis on the digital single market, which is a fundamental objective of great importance for growth and employment in europe. the communication adopted a few days ago shows a potentially very powerful strategy. i very much support the measures to improve competition and those which are aimed at a common tax system, which is what we have also been asking ourselves many times in the committee on the internal market. this is an ambitious plan which will create a modern society and will undoubtedly have positive effects not only in terms of better access to digital goods and services in various sectors, such as health, transport and energy, but also in terms of creating the new jobs we so badly need and are really focusing on as the european union. i hope that the commission, parliament and the council will be able to work together in a responsible way. the interests involved are many and this is also a risk we take, because we must be truly one europe and not show that the interests of individual countries take precedence over a collegiality, otherwise everything we have done in these years will have been absolutely useless.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's proposal on the digital single market is very important, but in my view it is too unbalanced in favour of consumption rather than digital citizenship, the strengthening of production and of cultural and creative content and therefore of cultural diversity and educational challenges. the precondition for a digital single market for the cultural and creative industries is that the adaptation of certain aspects of copyright goes hand in hand with the revision of the e-commerce directive to define roles, responsibilities, tax regime for over the top, distinguishing between those who are actually competitors and not mere intermediaries, together with the revision of the directive on audiovisual media services and enforcement, to safeguard european cultural biodiversity, which is also competitiveness. i appreciate, however, that commissioner oettinger - and i hope vice-president ansip agrees - has recently opened a much more careful dialogue with the operators in the sector in cannes, involving the parliament's committee on culture and saying that the rightly mentioned individual portability, copyright and territoriality are compatible. on the educational front, we ask that investment in ultra-broadband be made through the investment plan currently under way to connect schools, to bridge the digital divide and to improve the skills of teachers.
the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the commission's presentation of the new european digital single market strategy is undoubtedly an important first signal to foster smart growth in europe, using the opportunities offered by new technologies, but it will have to be followed by very ambitious legislative initiatives. we believe that the digital revolution can be a game-changer for the quality of life of european citizens and at the same time an opportunity to make our economy more competitive. firstly, i believe it is essential to foster digital innovation in our traditional businesses, particularly manufacturing companies. we also have a duty to create a favourable environment for european start-ups, so that they do not find a place to develop only overseas. finally, we must promote strong digitisation in the pa to provide citizens and businesses with more efficient and cheaper services. all this will only be possible if we accompany these objectives with a strong investment in human capital and infrastructure.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur of this report i would like to stress that we have examined this matter in depth in the legal affairs committee. this is a behaviour which is linked to mr uspaskich's parliamentary activity as a member of the european parliament. this is an affront to the judicial power of parliament, and it was therefore not considered appropriate to maintain mr uspaskich's parliamentary immunity because the conduct was neither related to his mandate nor was there any evidence to support the fumus persecutionis.
in writing. ‒ i find the report we are voting on to be balanced and uncritical. i believe that the safeguard measures in the eu-switzerland agreement are beneficial to both sides and since that agreement does not cause problems for our productive sectors i have wanted to support this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe that the choice to codify this regulation is in line with the objectives of simplification and better regulation that the union must pursue in order to get closer to citizens.
in writing. ‒ the european union and the swiss confederation have deep historical, cultural, linguistic and commercial links. switzerland exports 57% of its production to the union and imports 78% of its total annual goods and services from the union. switzerland is the union's third largest economic partner in terms of trade volume, after the united states and china and ahead of russia and japan. moreover, more than one million union citizens live in switzerland and 230 000 work in frontier posts, and some 430 000 swiss citizens live and work in the member states of the union. it follows that all efforts to consolidate and improve economic and cultural integration between these two realities are positive in their beneficial effect on both sides, but this cannot be done without improving tax transparency, cooperation between police forces in the prosecution of financial crimes, and ensuring freedom of movement for workers, which cannot risk being restricted by the referendum on immigration, the negative consequences of which would fall mainly on the swiss confederation itself. we hope that switzerland will seriously want to continue along the path of growth and development with the union and we will do everything necessary to make this possible.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of a merely codifying intervention. nothing changes in the substance of a measure in respect of which we therefore maintain a positive assessment. the safeguard measures in the eu-switzerland agreement are potentially a useful tool for both parties. it goes without saying that the agreement with the swiss confederation is not a trade agreement that causes problems for our manufacturing sector.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the legal framework for the community's financial services is properly applied.
in writing. ‒ the dossier concerns the codification of the amendments to the regulation on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation. in order to ensure legal certainty and to update the regulation in question, i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the measure codifies the existing texts, without substantial changes, concerning the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement with the swiss confederation and is therefore of a technical nature. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ as is well known, the agreement with the swiss confederation aims to consolidate and deepen existing economic relations, while respecting fair conditions of competition. in this context, the present proposal for the codification of the safeguard regulation is intended solely to bring together the existing regulations into a single regulation in order to provide certainty as to the applicable law. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the agreement, since the codification does not alter the substance of the agreement in any way.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this intervention. this is merely a codification for the safeguard measures in the eu-switzerland agreement which are potentially a useful tool for both parties.
in writing. i thank mr duda for his report on the proposal for a regulation on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement with the swiss confederation. this type of parliamentary act, which is carried out by parliament's legal affairs committee in close cooperation with the consultative group of the legal services of the three institutions, is an important instrument for the advancement and updating of community law, allowing the codification of existing texts.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr duda on the codification of existing texts, on the basis of the examination of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (eec) no 2841/72 of 19 december 1972 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to start the codification of the council regulation on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation. it is of the utmost importance to preserve the substance of the acts being codified and to bring them together by making the formal changes necessary for the purpose of codification, so as to make european legislation simple and clear, understandable and accessible to all citizens.
in writing. ‒ we approve this report on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation, convinced that the privileged relationship which the european union and switzerland have been able to build up over the years has so far had beneficial effects for the economies of both contracting parties. in particular, the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the parliament, the council and the commission considered that, since the proposal is limited to a recodification of the texts, the recodification should be carried out by common agreement and no legal obstacle should be identified. it is important, however, to stress, in addition to the full legal compliance of the proposal for a regulation, the political and economic value of the union between the european union and switzerland, without forgetting that one of the countries that will benefit most from it is italy. we hope that trade relations will continue to flourish in the future and that switzerland will not respond to certain protectionist requests. we therefore reiterate our support for this legally formal but politically significant act.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation because, according to the opinion issued on 17.9.2014 by the consultative working party of the legal services of the ep, the ec, and the council, the proposal for a regulation is simply a codification of the existing texts, without any substantive changes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for safeguard measures in the agreement with the swiss confederation. the proposal presented in plenary is merely a codification of the existing texts, without any substantial changes.
in writing. i voted in favour because the safeguard measures in the eu-switzerland agreement are potentially a useful tool for both sides.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the svoboda report, which analyses the european convention on the legal protection of conditional access services. i believe it is important to establish a european legal framework to combat unauthorized access to pay-tv services: this legislation aims to protect radio, tv and web broadcasting. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european convention on the legal protection of conditional access and conditional access services represents an improvement on the excellent directive 98/84/ec.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council's decision to approve the text of the european convention on the legal protection of conditional access services. the text was approved almost unanimously in the legal affairs committee. the procedures for reaching the convention in question were initiated in 1999, when the council authorised the european commission to negotiate its contents within the council of europe. in practice, the text seeks to establish a european legal framework to combat unauthorised access to pay-tv services. these rules protect radio, television and internet broadcasting.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the european convention on the legal protection of conditional and conditional access services. in the present case, i consider that: - many european states outside the union can be safe havens for the development and dissemination of conditional access services piracy devices, since their legal systems do not provide for penalties for this very specific piracy activity. it is therefore necessary to extend the provisions of the 1998 directive and to create a common and effective framework at european level for the protection of these services; - the convention effectively extends the scope of the framework provided for in directive 98/84/ec beyond the union by combating threats to protected services; the conclusion of the convention should therefore be approved. - the european court of justice, by judgment of 22 october 2013, ruled that the correct legal basis was article 207 tfeu on the common commercial policy. while this case was pending, it was not possible to sign or approve the conclusion of the convention on behalf of the union; - as is now possible, i voted for the conclusion of the convention.
in writing. ‒ the european convention in question aims to protect operators and providers of radio, television and online pay-tv services against the illegal reception of such services. the convention complements a similar directive of the european community by extending protection to the whole of europe and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ directive 98/84/ec on the protection of conditional access services and conditional access services has established a common legal framework applicable throughout the union to combat illegal devices allowing unauthorised access to pay-tv services and effectively protecting those services. this protection extends to conventional television and radio broadcasts as well as to broadcasts via the internet. in 1999, the council of europe started the preparation of a european convention on this subject, and it was therefore necessary to extend the provisions of the directive to the european level and to create a common framework. the negotiations, conducted by the commission on behalf of the eu, led to the adoption of the convention in 2001. however, its adoption has been blocked by a pending case between the commission and the council before the court of justice concerning the legal basis for the decision on signature. following the court's judgment, the council adopted a new decision in april 2014. the measure in question gives parliament its consent to the conclusion of the convention. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european convention on the legal protection of conditional access and conditional access services supplements and supplements european directive 98/84/ec establishing a common legal framework applicable in the territory of the union for combating illicit devices allowing unauthorised access to pay-tv services and effectively protecting such services. i believe that the accession of the european union to the said convention would actually extend the scope of the framework provided for by the said directive beyond the european union, by strengthening legal protection against threats to protected services. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this draft resolution, despite the difficulties in applying the procedural provisions within the council of europe, because of the complementarity of the two texts of reference.
in writing. ‒ european convention on the legal protection of conditional and conditional access services. recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the european convention on the legal protection of conditional and conditional access services. my vote was in favour because this report concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the european convention on the legal protection of services with conditional access or consisting of conditional access and recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the convention. in 1999, the council of europe began to draw up a european convention on the legal protection of these services and the commission represented the european union in the negotiations. the convention has the effect of extending the protection regime beyond the eu's borders.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text of the european convention on the legal protection of conditional access services. the text of the convention provides for the establishment of a european legal framework to combat unauthorised access to pay-tv services.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, after the council's approval, was asked to give its consent to the eu's conclusion of the european convention on the legal protection of conditional and conditional access services. it is a convention that combats computer and electronic piracy, while protecting operators in the sector and consumers. that is why i voted in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. president swoboda has given us an important report which i have approved with conviction, which relates to the conclusion of a new convention on conditional access services. this will allow the legal framework of the fundamental 1998 directive on the fight against illegal devices capable of retransmitting television services to be extended. the convention will also strengthen the prevention of such abuses at international level; it is an important signal for defending the legitimate rights of consumers on an ever-increasing scale.
in writing. i have given my consent to the report by mr svoboda on the european convention on the legal protection of conditional and conditional access services. given the great disparity which exists today in the european states in the legislation on the protection of these services, i am convinced of the need to pursue a common policy aimed at harmonizing legislation in this field.
in writing. ‒ the fight against illicit devices allowing unauthorised access to pay-tv services and the protection of such services are of paramount importance for the union. protection extends to conventional television and radio broadcasts as well as to broadcasts via the internet. it is necessary to prevent the creation of safe havens for the development and dissemination of pirated conditional access services and to create a common and effective framework at european level for the protection of these services. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ we support this recommendation on the conclusion of the european convention on the legal protection of conditional access and conditional access services because we are strongly convinced of the need for the european union to have a stable legal framework valid for all countries. we believe that the crimes of unauthorized access to pay-tv services must be dealt with in a uniform manner throughout the continent. it is no longer acceptable, at this stage of european integration, that some member states become free zones for the development and distribution of devices which are used to circumvent the costs of watching a given television or radio channel. the convention on the legal protection of conditional access services, adopted in 2001, is fully compatible with eu regulations and directives, and we agree with the council's position when it co-signed the convention on 14 april 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion of the european convention on the legal protection of conditional access and conditional access services following the judgment of the court of justice and the positive recommendation of the european parliament's legal affairs committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european convention on the legal protection of conditional access and conditional access services. the convention was adopted in 2001 with the aim of creating an effective common framework at european level for the protection of these services against illegal devices allowing unauthorised access to pay-tv and radio services. however, the parliament was not able to approve the conclusion of the convention on behalf of the european union until 2013.
in writing. i voted in favour because the text, which was approved almost unanimously in the legal affairs committee, seeks to establish a european legal framework, which is currently lacking, to prevent unauthorised access to pay-tv services.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of this request because, in my view, the statements made by mr uspaskich cannot be regarded as having been made in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament and therefore cannot benefit from the protection afforded by article 8 of protocol no 7.
in writing. ‒ uspaskich is accused of vilifying some lithuanian judges who had previously convicted him of another crime. the fact does not fall within the protections provided for by the regulation (among other reasons he was not a member of the european parliament at the time of the facts).
in writing. article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union provides that members of the european parliament shall enjoy on their national territory the immunities accorded to members of their national parliament. in this case, the charges against mr viktor uspaskich do not relate to an opinion expressed in the course of his duties as a member of the european parliament. no more visible than the elements supporting the fumus persecutionis. in the light of the foregoing, i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs laura ferrara.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to respond to the threat posed by terrorism. on 1 october 2014, the president informed, in accordance with rule 9 (1), that he had received a letter from the prosecutor general of lithuania requesting the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr uspaskich. the committee considered that the commission should be given the opportunity to present its proposal to the european parliament. at the time of the events, mr uspaskich, in answering questions from journalists at vilnius airport, allegedly called the judges who pronounced the guilty verdict in a criminal case against him on 12 july 2013 cowards, criminals and manipulators. the lithuanian criminal code provides for a fine, arrest or imprisonment of up to two years for anyone who publicly, offensively, orally or in writing, insults a court or judge in the exercise of his or her functions. furthermore, there is no reason to suppose that a fumus persecutionis exists. for these reasons i thought i should vote in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ aware that the events leading to the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of viktor uspaskich by the lithuanian government predate his election as a member of the european parliament, i have decided to vote in favour of this request.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of lifting the immunity of viktor uspaskich following statements made by uspaskich himself against the president and some members of the criminal chamber of the vilnius assize court, which had pronounced the sentence of conviction against him on 12 july 2013. i believe that, as provided for in the lithuanian criminal code, the responsibility of those who publicly, in fact, orally or in writing, violate the right of a court or judge to judge in the context of its activities should be established.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs ferrara's report on the request for the waiver of mr uspaskich's immunity. as the facts predate mr uspaskich's election to the european parliament, the legal affairs committee has recommended that the immunity be waived.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with this report on the request to waive the immunity of victor uspaskich. i believe that the member should continue to enjoy immunity as a guarantor and i shall continue to vote against these reports. the fact that this immunity exists is a guarantee to the benefit of the independence of the european parliament as an institution and not to the personal advantage of the members who are part of it.
in writing. ‒ whereas the prosecutor-general of lithuania has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr viktor uspaskich, member of the european parliament, in the context of an investigation into an alleged criminal offence; whereas article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union provides that members of the european parliament shall enjoy 'the immunities accorded to members of their national parliaments within their national territory'; whereas article 62 of the constitution of the republic of lithuania and the third paragraph of article 22 of the statute of the seimas (lithuanian parliament) provide that no criminal proceedings may be brought against members of the lithuanian parliament and that they may not be arrested or subjected to any other measure restricting their personal liberty without the approval of the seimas, except in cases of flagrant criminal offences; i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in this case, i think it is necessary to waive the immunity of viktor uspaskich, because articles 8 and 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union clearly state that a member of the european parliament may enjoy immunity in the exercise of his mandate. viktor uspaskich was not a member of the european parliament at the time of the events in question and, consequently, the immunity must be waived as the offence is in no way connected with the exercise of his mandate as a member of the european parliament but is antecedent. furthermore, i do not think that there are sufficiently serious and specific reasons to suspect that this is a case of fumus persecutionis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request because i believe that, in the absence of a fumus perscutionis and since the provisions of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union cannot be applied, mr lavrilleux's immunity should be waived.
in writing. ‒ lavrilleux is charged with forgery, use of forged documents, breach of trust, attempted fraud, complicity in and concealment of such offences and unlawful financing of an electoral campaign, concealment of said offense and complicity in the same. the fact does not fall under the protections provided for by the regulation (among other reasons he was not a member of the european parliament at the time of the events french election campaign in 2012). i voted for the request for a recall.
in writing. ‒ jérôme lavrilleux, former deputy campaign manager of nicolas sarkozy during the 2012 french presidential election, is under investigation for misuse and falsification of documents, breach of trust, attempted fraud, complicity in such offences and concealment of the same. the honourable member is also accused of unlawful financing of an election campaign, following fraud arising from an invoicing scheme which had enabled the ump party to support amounts which should have been charged to the candidate sarkozy and declared on his behalf for the campaign. the fake invoices were allegedly used to feed alleged "hidden funds" of the campaign for about 32 million euros. as these charges are not connected with the exercise of the mandate of a member of the european parliament, i voted in favour of the request for revocation.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to respond to the threat posed by terrorism. on 23 december 2014, the president informed, pursuant to rule 9 (1), that he had received a letter from the french minister of justice requesting the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr jérôme lavrilleux. the committee considered that the decision to waive the immunity should be submitted to the ep, considering that the charges clearly had no relation to his office as an mep, but were linked to his previous position as deputy director of the electoral campaign in the last presidential elections in france. mr lavrilleux is charged with forgery, use of forged documents, breach of trust, attempted fraud, aiding and abetting and covering up such offences, and unlawful financing of an electoral campaign, covering up such an offence and aiding and abetting in the same. furthermore, there is no reason to suppose that a fumus persecutionis exists. for these reasons i thought i should vote in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ given that the alleged charges are not related to the office of jérôme lavrilleux as a member of the european parliament but to his previous position as deputy director of the electoral campaign in the last presidential elections in france, i have voted in favour of this request for revocation.
in writing. ‒ jérôme lavrilleux, former deputy director of the 2012 french presidential campaign, is under investigation for forgery of documents, use of forged documents, breach of trust, attempted fraud, complicity in and concealment of such offences, and unlawful financing of an election campaign, following fraud stemming from an invoicing device that allowed the party of presidential candidate nicolas sarkozy to support amounts that should have been charged to the candidate and declared on his behalf for the campaign. i voted in favour of this withdrawal and i believe that it is right to punish those who misuse public money to finance electoral campaigns.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs hautala's report on the request for the waiver of mr lavrilleux's immunity. after analysing the matter, i followed the advice of the legal affairs committee, which recommended that the immunity be waived, considering that the facts in question are not relevant to his work as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with this report on the request for the waiver of the immunity of jérôme lavrilleux. i believe that the member should continue to enjoy immunity as a guarantor and i shall continue to vote against these reports. the fact that this immunity exists is a guarantee to the benefit of the independence of the european parliament as an institution and not to the personal advantage of the members who are part of it.
in writing. ‒ whereas the prosecutor-general of the paris court of appeal has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jérôme lavrilleux, member of the european parliament, in connection with the ongoing judicial investigation into the charges of forgery, use of forged documents, breach of trust, attempted fraud, complicity in and concealment of such offences and unlawful financing of an electoral campaign, concealment of such an offence and complicity in the same; that the french courts intend, in that context, to take a measure depriving or restricting the liberty of jérôme lavrilleux; whereas article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union provides that members of the european parliament shall enjoy, within their national territory, the immunities accorded to members of their national parliament; i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the offence for which the waiver of the immunity of jérôme lavrilleux is sought does not relate to the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament but to his previous mandate for the presidential elections in france held two years before his election as a member of the european parliament. in the absence of a fumus persecutionis, the request for revocation is perfectly valid as indicated by the legislation of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion to waive the immunity of mr korwin-mikke because i consider that the acts he committed do not fall within the scope of the immunity rules of protocol no 7.
in writing. ‒ the mep allegedly slapped another polish mp in july 2014 during a meeting of meps. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ on 11 july 2014, mr korwin-mikke violated the physical integrity of another mep, mr michał boni, by slapping him during a meeting of newly elected polish meps organised by the polish ministry of foreign affairs. as the alleged offence has no direct connection with the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament, protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union cannot apply. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the request for waiver of immunity.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action against terrorism. on 29 december 2014, the president informed, in accordance with rule 9 (1), that he had received a letter from the prosecutor general of poland requesting the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr janusz korwin-mikke. the committee considered that the decision to waive the immunity should be submitted to the ep, considering that the allegations clearly had no relation to the office of an mep. at the time of the incident, mr korwin-mikke violated the physical integrity of mr michał boni by slapping him during an event in warsaw a meeting of newly elected polish members of the european parliament, organised by the polish ministry of foreign affairs during which the injured party was performing official duties related to the office of member of the european parliament. furthermore, there is no reason to suppose that a fumus persecutionis exists. for these reasons i thought i should vote in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ since the events in this case have nothing to do with the current office of janusz korwin-mikke as an mep, i have decided to vote in favour of the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the immunity of janusz korwin-mikke, who is accused of causing physical injury to his fellow mep michał boni by striking him in the face with his hand while he was performing his official duties in connection with his participation in a meeting of polish meps in the 8th parliament, and since such behaviour was not attributable to the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. voting in favour of mr chrysogonos' report was my endorsement of the request for the waiver of mr janusz korwin-mikke's immunity. the committee on legal affairs recommended that the immunity be waived, noting that the facts in question were not related to his work as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with this report on the request for waiver of immunity of janusz korwin-mikke. i believe that the member should continue to enjoy immunity as a guarantor and i shall continue to vote against these reports. the fact that this immunity exists is a guarantee to the benefit of the independence of the european parliament as an institution and not to the personal advantage of the members who are part of it.
in writing. ‒ whereas, under article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes expressed in the performance of their duties; that, in accordance with article 9 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament shall enjoy on their national territory the immunities accorded to members of their national parliament; that, according to article 105 (2) of the constitution of the republic of poland, a member may not be called to answer criminal questions without the authorisation of the sejm; i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the legal rules of the european parliament must also be applied in the case of janusz korwin-mikke. immunity is normally waived where the offence falls within the scope of article 9 of the protocol provided that there is no fumus persecutionis, i.e. a sufficiently serious and specific suspicion that the case is being brought before a court with the intention of politically harming the member concerned. the hearing in the legal affairs committee did not reveal any fumus persecutionis, despite the fact that the events took place when mr korwin-mikke was already a member of the european parliament, but the alleged offence and the subsequent criminal proceedings have nothing to do with mr korwin-mikke's membership of the european parliament. the unanimous vote in the legal affairs committee also shows this, hence my vote in favour of the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to support this motion by voting in favour of it because i believe that the facts alleged against mr zagorakis have nothing to do with his duties as a member of the european parliament and that, therefore, his immunity should be waived.
in writing. ‒ mr zagorakis is accused of being responsible for financial irregularities committed between 2007 and 2012 at paok football club. the fact does not fall within the protections provided for by the regulation (among other reasons he was not a member of the european parliament at the time of the facts). i voted in favour of the request for a recall.
in writing. ‒ mr theodoros zagorakis is accused of being responsible for financial irregularities committed between 2007 and 2012 at paok football club, of which he was president. elected to the european parliament in 2014, mr zagorakis' alleged offence is not connected to his office as an mep, and therefore protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union cannot apply. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of the report by mr andrzej duda and therefore the request for the waiver of immunity.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to respond to the threat posed by terrorism. on 10 march 2015, the president informed, pursuant to rule 9 (1), that he had received a letter from the deputy prosecutor at the supreme court of greece requesting the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr zagorakis. the committee considered that the decision to waive the immunity should be submitted to the ep, considering that the allegations clearly had no relation to his office as an mep, but to his previous office as president of the paok thessaloniki football team. mr zagorakis is accused of being responsible for financial irregularities committed between 2007 and 2012 at paok football club, of which he was then the president. furthermore, there is no reason to suppose that a fumus persecutionis exists. for these reasons i thought i should vote in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the request for waiver of the immunity of theodoros zagorakis, since the facts alleged against him predate his election as a member of the european parliament and therefore do not fall within the cases provided for in articles 8 and 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr duda's report, as i support the request for the waiver of the immunity of mr theodoros zagorakis, who was accused of financial irregularities during his time as president of the paok football team (2007-2013). the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has decided to waive mr zagorakis' immunity, finding no connection between the above events and his parliamentary activities.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with this report on the request for waiver of the immunity of theodoros zagorakis. i believe that the member should continue to enjoy immunity as a guarantor and i shall continue to vote against these reports. the fact that this immunity exists is a guarantee to the benefit of the independence of the european parliament as an institution and not to the personal advantage of the members who are part of it.
in writing. ‒ whereas the deputy prosecutor at the supreme court of greece has requested the waiver of the immunity of theodoros zagorakis, member of the european parliament, in relation to a possible legal action concerning a suspected offence; whereas article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union provides that members of the european parliament shall enjoy, within their national territory, the immunities accorded to members of their national parliament; whereas article 62 of the constitution of the hellenic republic provides that, during the term of office of members of parliament, they may not be prosecuted, arrested, detained or otherwise deprived of their liberty without the prior authorisation of parliament; i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the alleged crime of which he is accused has no connection with the office of theodoros zagorakis as a member of the european parliament, but is rather connected to his office as president of the paok football team and to events preceding his election. it does not seem that there is any fumus persecutionis, that is to say, that the criminal proceedings are aimed at harming the political activity of the member, since the criminal proceedings were initiated some years before he took up his duties in the european parliament. that is why i voted to waive immunity.
in writing. i did not think that consulting the european economic and social committee could provide any real improvement for the union compared with the lisbon treaty, so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request for an opinion because i believe it is important to know the opinion of a body with such technical expertise as the economic and social committee, especially on a subject of such importance as the improvement of the european union on the basis of the potential of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. ‒ abstention from the request to consult the economic and social committee. the economic and social committee is a european institution which i hope will be abolished. we do not believe that consultation can provide any useful information to improve the functioning of the european union in relation to the potential of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. ‒ on a dossier of such importance it is important to ask for consultation of the social partners, who can provide interesting input and insights, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, as provided for in rule 137 of its rules of procedure, was called upon to approve a request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on the subject 'improving the functioning of the european union based on the potential of the lisbon treaty'. the economic and social committee may be consulted on general questions or on specific points. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain on the request for consultation of the economic and social committee, as we have long considered that body to be entirely superfluous.
in writing. ‒ the lisbon treaty marked a turning point for the european union in several areas. in particular, it has undoubtedly increased democratic participation and its transparency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. however, in order to exploit its full potential, the european institutions must not close themselves off but, on the contrary, open themselves up to the greatest possible number of civil society actors. that is why i voted in favour of requesting the consultation of a body such as the european economic and social committee, which will be able to give us an in-depth opinion containing ideas and proposals from consumers, farmers, workers and many other parts of civil society.
in writing. the economic and social committee has sent us the request for consultation on the important topic 'improving the functioning of the european union based on the potential of the lisbon treaty'. i voted in favour of the request, which was duly substantiated by the use of rule 137 of parliament's rules of procedure. i thank president schulz for initiating the consultation procedure; it will be very important to involve the economic and social committee, which is the direct representative of the social, trade union and production bodies in europe, in this important discussion.
in writing. i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on 'improving the functioning of the european union based on the potential of the lisbon treaty'. in fact, under rule 137 of the rules of procedure, where the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides for consultation of the european economic and social committee, the president shall initiate the consultation procedure and inform parliament thereof.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on 'improving the functioning of the european union based on the potential of the lisbon treaty'. it is good that a committee can ask for the economic and social committee to be consulted on general matters as well as on more specific subjects. this system, like the system of not discussing requests for consultation, tends to make an integrated procedure better.
in writing. ‒ while thanking the rapporteur for his work, i confirm my support for the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's rules of procedure, in title v (relations with other institutions and bodies), clearly states in article 137 that if the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides for consultation of the european economic and social committee, the procedure must be initiated. the case in question is one of those in which the economic and social committee is to be consulted, and i therefore voted in favour of the request.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee because i believe it is essential that the issue of improving the functioning of the european union be addressed by calling on the body that most represents the european social and productive bodies.
in writing. i abstained because i do not believe that consultation can provide any useful input to improve the functioning of the european union in relation to the potential of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. as i do not believe that consultation of the european economic and social committee can provide concrete information on the possible evolution of the current eu structure, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request for an opinion because i believe it is important to know the opinion of a body with such technical expertise as the economic and social committee, especially on a subject of such importance as the developments and adjustments to the current institutional set-up of the european union.
in writing. ‒ abstention from the request to consult the economic and social committee. the economic and social committee is a european institution which i hope will be abolished. we do not believe that the consultation requested can provide any interesting information on the possible evolution of the current eu structure.
in writing. ‒ in view of possible developments in the treaties, consultation and involvement of the social partners is certainly important. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, as provided for in rule 137 of its rules of procedure, was called upon to approve a request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on the subject of 'possible developments and adjustments to the current institutional set-up of the european union'. the economic and social committee may be consulted on general questions or on specific points. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the economic and social committee on the possibility of improving the functioning of the european union and on possible developments and adjustments to the institutional set-up. article 137 of parliament's rules of procedure gives a committee the right to request that the economic and social committee be consulted on general questions or on specific points and to set a deadline within which the committee must give its opinion. in particular, considering that this opinion will be important for examining in depth the aspects relating to the better protection of social and economic interests, i approve the request for consultation.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain on the request for consultation of the economic and social committee, as we have long considered that body to be entirely superfluous.
in writing. the economic and social committee has sent us a request for consultation on the important topic 'possible developments and adjustments to the current institutional set-up of the european union'. i voted in favour of the request, which was duly substantiated by the use of rule 137 of parliament's rules of procedure. i thank president schulz for initiating the consultation procedure; it will be very important to involve the economic and social committee, which directly represents the european social, productive and trade union bodies, in this important debate on the future of the eu.
in writing. i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on 'possible developments and adjustments to the current institutional set-up of the european union' as i believe it represents an example of democratic exercise. requests to consult the european economic and social committee shall be subject to parliament's approval without debate, in accordance with rule 137.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on 'possible developments and adjustments to the current institutional set-up of the european union'. it is good that a committee can ask for the economic and social committee to be consulted on general matters as well as on more specific subjects. this system, like the system of not discussing requests for consultation, tends to make an integrated procedure better.
in writing. ‒ while thanking the rapporteur for his work, i confirm my support for the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee.
in writing. ‒ this is another case where the procedure for requesting consultation of the european economic and social committee must be initiated. it is a necessary act, and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee because i believe it is essential that any changes and adjustments to the current institutional set-up of the european union be addressed by calling on the body that best represents the european social and productive bodies.
in writing. i abstained, as i did not consider that the requested consultation could provide any useful information on the possible evolution of the current eu structure.
in writing. the committee of the regions is an institution which represents a direct channel of dialogue between brussels and our territories. i therefore believe that consultation with the commission on the dossier 'improving the functioning of the european union by exploiting the potential of the lisbon treaty' can bring positive insights which take account of the real needs of our regions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request for an opinion because i believe it is important to know the opinion of a body with such technical expertise as the committee of the regions, especially on a highly relevant subject such as improving the european union on the basis of the potential of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. - i vote for it. in this case, the request for consultation concerns the committee of the regions, a european institution which has a secondary role but which for me represents a tool for direct dialogue between brussels and the regions with legislative powers, such as the italian regions.
in writing. ‒ it is important to give territories a voice and their expression in europe, as they can make important contributions to making the most of the opportunities that the treaty offers for their direct involvement.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, as provided for in rule 138 of its rules of procedure, was called upon to approve a request for consultation of the committee of the regions on the theme 'improving the functioning of the european union based on the potential of the lisbon treaty'. the economic and social committee may be consulted on general questions or on specific points. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request to consult the committee of the regions on the possibility of improving the functioning of the european union and on possible developments and adjustments to the institutional set-up. article 138 of parliament's rules of procedure gives a committee the right to request that the committee of the regions be consulted on general questions or on specific points and to set a deadline within which the committee must give its opinion. in particular, considering that this opinion is an important tool for highlighting local and regional interests and improving the protection of the institutional set-up of multi-level governance, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the request for consultation of the committee of the regions, which continues to be an instrument of direct dialogue between brussels and the regions with legislative powers, such as the italian regions.
in writing. the committee of the regions has sent us the request for consultation on the important topic 'improving the functioning of the european union based on the potential of the lisbon treaty'. i voted in favour of the request, which was duly substantiated by the use of rule 138 of parliament's rules of procedure. i thank president schulz for initiating the consultation procedure; it will be very important to involve the committee of the regions, which directly represents the territorial authorities of the various european regions, in this important discussion.
in writing. i have given my consent to the request for consultation of the committee of the regions on 'improving the functioning of the european union based on the potential of the lisbon treaty'. in fact, under rule 138 of the rules of procedure, where the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides for consultation of the committee of the regions, the president shall initiate the consultation procedure and inform parliament thereof.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the request for consultation of the committee of the regions on 'improving the functioning of the european union based on the potential of the lisbon treaty'. it is good that a committee can ask for the committee of the regions to be consulted on general matters as well as on more specific subjects. this system, like the system of not discussing requests for consultation, tends to make an integrated procedure better.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's rules of procedure also state in article 138 of chapter 5 of title v that the procedure must be initiated where the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides for consultation of the committee of the regions. in this case the request falls within the scope of the procedure and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the committee of the regions sent us the request for consultation on 'improving the functioning of the european union based on the potential of the lisbon treaty'. i voted in favour of the request by the committee of the regions, based on rule 138 of parliament's rules of procedure, because i believe it is essential that the issue of improving the functioning of the european union be addressed by calling on the body that most represents local realities.
in writing. i voted in favour because the committee of the regions is, despite its limitations, an instrument for direct dialogue between brussels and the regions.
in writing. the committee of the regions is an institution which represents a direct channel of dialogue between brussels and our territories. i therefore believe that a consultation with the commission on the dossier 'possible developments and adjustments to the current institutional set-up of the european union' could bring positive insights which take account of the real needs of our regions. i therefore supported the text under vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request for an opinion because i believe it is important to know the opinion of a body with such technical expertise as the committee of the regions, especially on a subject of such importance as the developments and adjustments to the current institutional set-up of the european union.
in writing. - i vote for it. in this case, the request for consultation concerns the committee of the regions, a european institution which has a secondary role but which for me represents a tool for direct dialogue between brussels and the regions with legislative powers, such as the italian regions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of consulting the committee of the regions on any developments in the institutional set-up of the union, as it is important that the body representing the territories has a say on this crucial issue.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, as provided for in rule 138 of its rules of procedure, was called upon to approve a request for consultation of the committee of the regions on the subject of 'possible developments and adjustments to the current institutional set-up of the european union'. the committee of the regions may be consulted on general questions or on specific points. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the request for consultation of the committee of the regions, which continues to be an instrument of direct dialogue between brussels and the regions with legislative powers, such as the italian regions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request for consultation in order to have the opportunity to learn more in depth, in a spirit of genuine and effective subsidiarity, the views and proposals of all the regional and local specificities that make up europe, so as to be able to develop the institutional set-up with the greatest possible institutional and popular involvement.
in writing. the committee of the regions has sent us a request for consultation on the important topic 'possible developments and adjustments to the current institutional set-up of the european union'. i voted in favour of the request, which was duly substantiated by the use of rule 138 of parliament's rules of procedure. i thank president schulz for initiating the consultation procedure; it will be very important to involve the committee of the regions, which directly represents the territorial authorities of the various european regions, in this important discussion on the future of the eu.
in writing. i welcomed the request for consultation of the committee of the regions on 'possible developments and adjustments to the current institutional set-up of the european union'. requests to consult the committee of the regions shall be subject to parliament's approval without debate, in accordance with rule 138. implementing the union's prerogatives remains a priority for this parliament.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the request for consultation of the committee of the regions on 'possible developments and adjustments to the current institutional set-up of the european union'. it is good that a committee can ask for the committee of the regions to be consulted on general matters as well as on more specific subjects. this system, like the system of not discussing requests for consultation, tends to make an integrated procedure better.
in writing. ‒ the request to consult the committee of the regions on 'possible developments and adjustments to the current institutional set-up of the european union' is also one of the cases provided for in article 138 of title v of the ep's rules of procedure, for which i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the committee of the regions, as i consider it important and at the same time interesting that any developments and adjustments to the current institutional set-up of the european union be addressed by calling on one of the bodies that best represents european citizens and local realities more generally.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the report signed by liberal mep van nieuwenhuizen is positive. this is a regulatory text updating the rules on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments to improve transparency. the requests from some groups to delete parts of the text are improving.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts. the manipulation of libor and currency benchmarks, as well as the alleged manipulation of other indices, have highlighted the importance of benchmarks as well as their vulnerability. the objectives of this report are therefore to strengthen governance systems and standards, to enhance transparency by making more information available to users of all benchmarks and to maintain the supply of and access to a wide variety of benchmarks by applying governance requirements in a proportionate manner. this would reduce the vulnerability to manipulation and abuse of widely used and systemically important benchmarks, increase the possibility for users to make informed choices and ensure a level playing field for all administrators, both eu and third country. for all these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ although the text voted today is a significant improvement on the european commission's initial proposal, there are major weaknesses in some key areas, including insufficient administrative sanctions and exemptions for central banks, public authorities, central counterparties and also the media. i therefore voted against this draft legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation.
in writing. ‒ the manipulation of libor and currency benchmarks, as well as the alleged manipulation of other indices, have highlighted the importance of benchmarks and their vulnerability. in response to these revelations, the eu amended its market abuse legislation to clarify that the manipulation of benchmarks is illegal and to criminalise such conduct. in the light of these considerations, i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts. i believe that it introduces important measures to improve the accuracy and reliability of financial indices and, above all, fills a gap in european legislation by creating a uniform treatment between member states. in particular, this regulation aims to achieve three fundamental objectives: strengthen governance systems and standards to reduce vulnerability to manipulation and abuse; enhance transparency by informing users and making all benchmarks available to them so that they can make informed decisions; maintain the supply of and access to a wide variety of benchmarks, applying governance requirements in a proportionate manner, including by ensuring a level playing field for all administrators, both eu and third country. therefore, in order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and to improve the conditions for its operation, in particular of financial markets, and to ensure a high level of consumer and investor protection, i welcome the formulation of a regulatory framework for benchmarks at union level.
in writing. ‒ indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts. proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts. the vote was negative because, although parliament's text is significantly improved on the commission's initial proposal, there are still important criticisms, among which we would point out an overly broad scope. the regulation exempts central banks, public authorities, central counterparties and also the media; certain exemptions for non-critical benchmark administrators have been introduced with regard to governance, conflict of interest management, transparency and breach reporting. moreover, the thresholds for judging a critical benchmark are too high (eur 5 billion) and the administrative penalties are too low.
in writing. ‒ following the scandals that resulted in millions of euro fines for several banks in europe and the us, the commission published a draft regulation on a wide range of benchmarks (interest rates and commodities) to address possible shortcomings at every stage of the production and use of benchmarks. doubts about the integrity of benchmarks can undermine market confidence, cause losses for consumers and investors and distort the real economy. the commission's text has been considerably improved by a number of amendments, particularly with regard to the definition of non-critical benchmarks, which in the first version was too light and therefore too unbalanced. the vote in favour was for a text which represents a good starting point for future negotiations with the council.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on benchmarks is part of the wider range of legislative measures to overcome the critical issues in the capital market. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the sampled exporting producers. this was a particularly serious act given the overall impact on financial markets. in addition to the construction and implementation of legislative measures on the most important financial infrastructures, this proposal also solves the major problem of monitoring indices. it was a very difficult negotiation: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the two major issues of the recognition of third country benchmarks and the definition of critical and non-critical benchmarks were addressed by a highly pragmatic approach, which, however, limited the scope of the proposal for a regulation. i am voting in favour of this proposal, since the total absence of regulation would lead to further criticism on the financial markets, but i hope that the institutions will make a greater effort to include in a balanced dimension some of the unresolved issues.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report signed by my liberal colleague, mrs van nieuwenhuizen. this text updates the rules on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments with greater transparency.
in writing. ‒ the abuses of indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts affect not only investors but all european citizens. unfortunately, self-regulation has not brought the desired results. governance that can effectively counter the risks of manipulation is therefore essential to make these instruments sound and reliable. that is why i voted in favour of the proposed regulation and will continue to ensure that the principles of independence and the protection of citizens remain at the heart of this reform.
in writing. the proposal put forward by mrs cora van nieuwenhuizen on the regulation on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts deserves our attention. this is a very important measure, which aims to solve those serious cases of manipulation of reference values for the determination of interest rates, such as libor and euribor, and of reference values for currencies, which in recent years have caused considerable losses to consumers and investors, as well as destroying the confidence of citizens in the financial sector. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal with conviction, as part of the many efforts europe is making to restore confidence and rules to the economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's position on the calculation of indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts as the fundamental objective of the legislative proposal is to increase transparency and reduce conflicts of interest in particular for 'systemically important' indices such as libor and euribor. the influence they have on financial instruments and contracts - i am thinking of mortgage loans for example - is of great importance. they are collectively worth less than eur 500 billion and could therefore jeopardise the stability of financial markets in the european union. hence the need to distinguish within them between national or european-scale indices of systemic importance, which esma will be called upon to monitor, and non-systemic indices. the recent scandals involving european banks, duly sanctioned by the competent authorities, must be the starting point for legislation ensuring the integrity of benchmarks; accordingly, their directors should be required to implement appropriate governance to control conflicts of interest and to safeguard confidence in the integrity of benchmarks. i hope that the negotiations with the council will be concluded successfully in the short term.
in writing. i have given my consent to the report put to the vote today. the pricing of many financial instruments and contracts depends on the accuracy and integrity of the benchmarks. serious cases of manipulation of those securities demonstrate that they may be subject to conflicts of interest and have discretionary and weak governance regimes that are vulnerable to manipulation. in response, the eu amended the market abuse legislation to punish such conduct (updated vote under article 61 (2) of the regulation).
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation introduces a common framework to ensure the accuracy and integrity of indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts. the integrity of benchmarks is crucial for the pricing of many financial instruments such as risk management, commercial and non-commercial contracts, loans and mortgages, etc. any risk of manipulation of benchmarks can undermine market confidence, cause significant losses for investors and distort the real economy. i voted in favour of the text because i believe that this eu regulation is necessary to improve the functioning and governance of benchmarks and to ensure that these benchmarks are robust, reliable, representative and not subject to manipulation. we now await negotiations with the council for a final legislative text with broad agreement.
in writing. ‒ we support the report on the proposal for a regulation on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and contracts and welcome it in particular in the light of the recent manipulation of libor and other currency benchmarks, which has highlighted the importance and vulnerability of these values. we agree with the rapporteur in identifying the three main objectives of future regulation, namely strengthening governance systems and standards, increasing transparency and maintaining a wide range of benchmarks, which guarantees a level playing field for eu and non-eu administrators. we particularly welcome the balancing of requirements between critical and non-critical benchmarks, which we believe is a good compromise that can be used to the best advantage in the negotiations with the council. the requirements shall include a proportionate approach that takes into account the different markets and economic realities involved using different types of data. it is necessary to establish a set of criteria valid throughout the union, including the possibility to determine critical reference values for member states in cases where values are not displayed in more than one member state.
in writing. ‒ i believe that there was an objective need for a proposal, to which i voted in favour, to regulate indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts. to date, supervisors only supervise financial instruments, but not the production and governance of the indices that determine the risk profile and economic value of those instruments. since the use of indices is now indispensable as a reference for financial instruments, regulation was necessary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts because i think that a very good job has been done in compiling this report. the report respects the objective we have set ourselves, in other words to restore a climate of confidence. if we were to turn to psychological terrorism in the face of such reprehensible scandals, we would be abandoning our political task. in my view, this work has as its point of balance the excellent choice of identifying what are the distinctions between critical indices and indices not considered as such. the approach taken is the right one: the solution to the problem, not the activation of further terror, of further mistrust.
in writing. i voted in favour of the regulation because it provides for greater transparency in the rules on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments.
in writing. on 19 may, the european parliament approved by a large majority a measure which would have regulated at european level the indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments, the so-called benchmarks. this need arose following the recent euribor and libor manipulation scandals involving some large banks. the objective of the regulation was to prevent any future manipulation of benchmarks in order to preserve consumers and the integrity of financial markets. unfortunately, the text that has been adopted will not achieve this because of the excessive and unjustified exemptions that have been introduced. the regulation does not apply to central banks, public authorities, central counterparties or the media. however, exemptions have been introduced for certain administrators of benchmarks on governance, conflict of interest management, transparency and breach reporting. finally, the thresholds for judging a benchmark to be 'critical' have been set too high (eur 5 billion) and the administrative penalties are too low. we in the m5s have tried to improve the text, not only in the econ committee but also before the vote in plenary, by asking at least to remove all the exemptions. but it was useless. this is yet another proof of the lack of will to give concrete answers to the problems of the real economy.
in writing. ‒ the recent scandals involving the manipulation of the euribor and libor rates by some large banks have necessitated specific regulation of benchmarks at european level. the aim of the regulation is therefore to prevent the manipulation of benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts in order to protect consumers and the integrity of the financial market. i have nevertheless not supported this report because, although parliament's text is significantly improved on the commission's original proposal, there are still important criticisms. firstly, i think that the scope of the directive is too broad. the regulation exempts central banks, public authorities, central counterparties and the media. in addition, certain exemptions have been introduced for non-critical benchmark administrators with regard to governance, conflict of interest management, transparency and breach reporting. moreover, the thresholds for judging a critical benchmark are too high (eur 5 billion) and the administrative penalties too low.
in writing. ‒ the report is shared, balanced and free from criticism. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european union's primacy in the field of development aid is one of our greatest merits and that this resolution is a further demonstration of european solidarity.
in writing. ‒ while i am sceptical about the actual use of these resources and their effectiveness, i have always supported the principle of 'helping them at home'. in this sense, therefore, although we believe that the text is lacking in substance and sometimes not very concrete, i cannot but support the fundamental principles on which it is based.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on financing for development. i agree with the report, which welcomes the preliminary draft outcome document of the third international conference on financing for development in addis ababa, which has the ambitious task of setting the level of intervention in the next agenda on the subject. i believe that the right conditions for the eradication of poverty and inequality can be achieved above all through a universal, holistic and integrated approach, including the control and monitoring by the commission of the financing of aid programmes and projects in the fields of health, education, energy, water supply and infrastructure. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter.
in writing. ‒ the report by mr pedro silva pereira will represent the european parliament's position at the third conference on financing for development to be held in addis ababa from 13 to 16 july 2015. this conference will be a key step in supporting the implementation of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) as it will have to create the conditions for financing and implementing the so-called post-2015 agenda. the european parliament's text reaffirms the commitment of the member states at the 2002 monterrey conference to allocate 0.7% of gross national income (gni) to development aid (daa), but also supports the need to create new and additional sources of financing. i am therefore glad that i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european union has been and remains the world's largest donor of development aid, providing around 60% of the world's official development assistance. the awareness that there are resources potentially sufficient to abolish poverty conditions worldwide requires that funding be provided to ensure gradual but continuous development, including widespread education and a general improvement in living standards. long-term financial needs must be taken into account by effective programming and by promoting cooperation channels between the various state entities. i therefore believe it is important to look to the commission and parliament for greater support in the areas of tax administration, financial governance and public financial management, and the fight against tax evasion. the mobilisation of national resources and international public funding is a key factor in enabling the european union to play more effectively the role of promoting development at global level which is inherent in its founding values. i have found many points of agreement between the report under discussion and my own views, and i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ 2015 is a pivotal year for global development efforts, with the adoption of the sustainable development goals (sdgs), the global climate action agreement (both valid until 2030), and the third international conference on financing for development, to be held in addis ababa, ethiopia, from 13 to 16 july 2015. the union is the world's largest donor of development aid, providing some 60% of the total. the current budget allocates some €60 billion to development, divided between development cooperation (19.7 billion), humanitarian aid for the period 2014-2020 (6.8 billion), the emergency aid reserve (2.2 billion) and the european development fund (edf) of €30.5 billion. however, many member states have not committed to the 0,7% of gross national income development target and therefore the measure in question calls on them to present (taking into account budgetary constraints) multiannual calendars in order to achieve this target by 2020. in the light of these considerations, i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ 2015 is a pivotal year for europe's political leadership in defining a framework for sustainable development and climate action. this is an ambitious objective and as such requires a strong and comprehensive partnership involving the use of various forms of funding. i believe that the eradication of poverty and inequality is only possible through the mobilisation of sufficient and appropriate resources, which ensure targeted interventions to support the most vulnerable groups. in the light of these considerations, i have decided to vote in favour of this report, so that the member states can maintain their role as the main donors and at the same time urge the sgp to share the responsibilities.
in writing. ‒ the report represents the european parliament's position at the third conference on financing for development to be held in addis ababa. the addis ababa conference will be an important contribution to supporting the implementation of the sustainable development goals (sdgs). in a context of financial crisis, where member states are increasingly reluctant to honour the commitment made at the 2002 monterrey conference to commit 0.7% of gross national income (gni) to development aid (daa), the report adopted by the deve committee sends a positive signal in terms of the objectives to be achieved by the conference, including the need to create new and additional sources of funding. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the millennium development goals, adopted in 2000 by world leaders to reduce poverty, were to be achieved by 2015. unfortunately, we are still far from achieving them: 1.5 billion people still live in poverty, mainly in conflict-affected states; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of poverty. unfortunately, very few industrialized countries are meeting their commitment to allocate 0.7% of their gnp to official development aid. this is the starting point, and we must ensure that the budgetary constraints imposed do not penalise this type of intervention, and at the same time intensify the search for alternative sources and resources, including the financial transaction tax. we also need to learn from the past to build strategies based on sound analysis, which set politically acceptable and decisive global development goals to eradicate poverty. at the same time, the non-financial means and methods of implementation shall be indicated. as the largest contributor of development aid, the eu must claim and play a leading role in this process.
in writing. 2015 is also the year of the third international conference on financing for development, to be held in addis ababa in july, at which the new sustainable development goals will be defined. the broad and cross-cutting support for the report on financing for development, with which parliament expressed its support for the eu's position in the run-up to the conference, demonstrates the importance of this issue for the european union as a whole. parliament strongly advocated that the eu should continue to play a leading role in development policies and remain the world's leading donor of development aid, renewing commitments already made and calling for a genuine sharing of responsibilities between member states. the eu will need to work with developing countries to develop a more robust and accountable investment regulatory framework, taking into account innovative financing modalities such as public-private partnerships that balance private sector risks with public sector guarantees. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ while encouraged by the progress made over the past two decades in lifting 660 million people worldwide out of poverty, the world bank's recent poverty data are a stark reminder of the scale of the task ahead for eradicating extreme poverty. the european union will have to work to strengthen the international community's commitment to the post-2015 development agenda. eradicating poverty, ensuring inclusive and sustainable development for present and future generations, and promoting and protecting all human rights are the core values for a peaceful and prosperous society.
in writing. ‒ the addis ababa conference, to be held in july this year, will be decisive in supporting the implementation of the sustainable development goals. the international situation, due to the financial crisis, has led the member states to question the commitment made at the monterrey conference in 2002, where it was decided to commit 0.7% of gross national income to development aid. the report adopted by the deve committee is a positive sign, since it sets out concrete objectives to be achieved in view of the addis ababa conference, also because it shows the need to find additional sources of financing for development. the report reiterates the commitment to aid: in essence, it calls on the eu to assert its political leadership in defining a framework for sustainable development, committing itself anew and without delay to achieving the 0.7% of gross national income target for development aid. the eu is also called upon to take serious action against tax havens, tax evasion and illicit financial flows, which undermine development assistance and contribute to the indebtedness of developing countries. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report because, although it is not particularly innovative or critical of the past, it does provide a shared reference for the sustainable development goals in poor countries.
in writing. ‒ the european union is the world's largest donor of development aid. i am proud of this primacy, but i believe that we can and must try to make this aid more targeted and effective, with a view to greater subsidiarity. a holistic approach is needed to integrate all the complexities of development finance issues. i would like to stress in particular the two key challenges facing us in 2015: the adoption of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) and the adoption of a global agreement on climate and climate change at cop 21 in paris. i hope the eu will not miss these two great opportunities to show the world real leadership based on concrete proposals.
in writing. 1.5 billion poor people: that's an unacceptable number in this day and age. that is why i fully support mr pereira's own-initiative report on financing for development, and i hope that the union will strengthen its commitment to supporting development policies not only through awareness-raising initiatives, the exchange of best practice and support for the important work of ngos, but also through more concrete actions and economic operations such as the transposition by the member states of 'international public financing', a commitment of 0.7% of gross national income to the least developed countries, the creation of a sustainable development table and the promotion of a programme aimed at poverty eradication and the priority objective of access to basic social services for all.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep report on financing for development because i believe that the third addis ababa conference in july 2015 will have to create the conditions for financing and implementing the post-2015 development agenda. i therefore believe it is of paramount importance that eu member states respect the target of 0.7% of gdp for official development assistance (oda) in order to meet the commitments made by european states in 2005, even in a changed economic and financial situation. as recognised by the 2005 european consensus on development, there can be no sustainable development without peace and security; nevertheless, after ten years, the number of people still living in poverty, suffering from deprivation in health, education and living standards, especially in fragile states and conflict zones, has remained unchanged. this is not acceptable, as there are sufficient resources, worldwide, to gradually end extreme poverty, with more targeted interventions in an integrated approach to the developing countries. poverty reduction must be an eu priority, hence the need for the eu to maintain leadership in gsp policy.
in writing. ‒ today, with this vote, we all affirm our will to achieve an ambitious global development partnership. as outlined in the un secretary-general's summary report, a transformative, universal and holistic approach is needed to achieve development goals, including through an appropriate financial framework. the success of this ambitious partnership depends on the precise objectives to be achieved, such as: the eradication of poverty, the universality of human rights and gender equality. i would stress the importance of maintaining our status as the eu's largest donor of development aid in the world - we currently provide almost 60% of it - and call for greater responsibility-sharing by all member states, in particular in making significant economic commitments.
in writing. i supported mr pereira's report. considering that 2015 is a pivotal year for global development efforts and that the mobilisation of national resources and official development assistance (oda) are indispensable foundations for the financing of development, i believe that they should be supported and strengthened. the report urges the eu and its member states to commit without delay to the target of achieving 0.7% of gni (gross national income) per aps, and to give a boost to the commitments made to provide more, new and additional funding to combat climate change.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on financing for development because it is unacceptable that 1.5 billion people still live in poverty, suffering deprivation in terms of health, education and living standards. the union's macro-financial assistance should be directed to the development of the union's macro-financial assistance in the form of grants, loans and guarantees. a more strategic, ambitious and comprehensive approach is needed, bearing in mind that the eu is the world's largest donor of development aid, providing almost 60% of official development aid globally.
in writing. ‒ we support the report on financing for development because we believe that as the world's leading donor of development aid, the european union has a duty to play a leading role in financing for developing countries. the eu and its member states have a moral obligation to honour their commitments and to allocate 0.7% of their gross national income to official development assistance, with 0.15% to 0.20% going to the least developed countries. it is essential that the eu is a global leader in this area, especially considering that the use of public resources is more sustainable and predictable than ex post assistance. too many countries need more support to introduce strong national systems, and the political and moral clout that the european union has built up over the years should be harnessed to make an effort in this direction. on the other hand, it should not be forgotten that public aid is not sufficient to cover the necessary investments, and it is important that the european union should have a regulatory framework which encourages transparent and more responsible private investment in developing countries, contributing to the formation of a social conscience also in the private sector.
in writing. ‒ whereas 2015 is a pivotal year for global development efforts, with the adoption of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) and a global climate action agreement, both valid until 2030; that 1.5 billion people still live in poverty, suffering from deprivation in health, education and living standards, especially in fragile and conflict-affected states; that this is not acceptable, as there are sufficient resources, worldwide, to gradually end this situation; that, as recognised by the 2005 european consensus on development, there can be no sustainable development without peace and security; i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european union is the world's largest donor of development aid: i am glad to hear that, and i voted in favour of the report. but i think it is increasingly important to have a holistic and integrated approach to long-term financing, ensuring that the eu is leading the way in defining a framework for sustainable development to be structured together with other actors such as the united nations. all countries, including high-income, upper-middle-income and emerging economies, must commit themselves to sharing responsibilities, each in proportion to its means, with the common goal of poverty eradication and sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain from voting on the report by mr silva pereira on financing for development. the reasons for my choice depend on a proposed amendment on sexual and reproductive rights, an issue which i do not think is consistent with a development report.
in writing. i voted in favour because the text, although not particularly innovative, contains mostly shared references to the sustainable development goals in poor countries through development finance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on development finance. it is important that the eu takes a global leadership role in promoting well-being in the least fortunate countries by pursuing the ambitious goal of transferring 0.7% of gross national income to development aid (gni) by 2020, taking into account each country's budgetary constraints. i also appreciated the eu's strong position on the need to invite other developed partners, emerging countries and private donors from around the world to increase their contribution and commitment as well. finally, in order to ensure effective control and monitoring of development investments and progress in implementing commitments and specific objectives, i expect that future agreements will provide for clear, transparent and accessible reporting tools for aid programmes in order to prevent corruption and mismanagement.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on financing for development. this report is parliament's contribution to the eu's position in view of the high-level conference on financing for development to be held in addis ababa next july. i believe that the european union and the member states should continue to be the main donors of development aid, but should at the same time push for shared responsibility, calling on high-income countries and emerging economies to make equally significant commitments. i would like to conclude by recalling the need to develop a reliable and transparent regulatory framework at international level to stimulate investment and to contribute to the growth of a socially conscious private sector in developing countries.
in writing. ‒ i share the views expressed in mr pedicini's report; i believe that the commission must work towards creating a european health legislative framework which places the citizen more and more at the centre and which at the same time ensures a new impetus for pharmaceutical research, especially the development of new antibiotics for human use.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important for the union to tackle these two issues which concern citizens very closely and which are therefore of enormous relevance both for the present and, above all, for the future.
in writing. - i voted yes. it is not the first report in which parliament has asked the commission to continue to monitor constantly the progress of the member states in relation to the recommendations made by parliament and the council, and to inform the public of any further progress in patient safety and also in the development of new medicines that can help to reduce the trend of increasing adverse events in the eu.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report to improve healthcare and in particular to tackle the growing resistance to antibiotics, through more responsible use of available treatments and by promoting innovation. the current economic crisis has put a heavy strain on national health budgets and has therefore had an impact on patient safety. it is estimated that between 8 and 12% of patients admitted to hospitals in the eu suffer adverse events, such as health-related infections, which cause 37 000 deaths a year and represent a heavy burden on limited healthcare resources. no austerity measures can be imposed which affect the safety of patients, staff or specialists in hospitals. i call on the member states to ensure that patient safety is not jeopardised by austerity measures and that the health system remains adequately funded. i also find it unacceptable that 25 000 citizens die every year in europe because of growing resistance to existing antibiotics. we must therefore urge the pharmaceutical industries to invest in the development of new antimicrobial agents and ask the commission to consider the possibility of presenting a legislative proposal to stimulate research in this field.
in writing. ‒ the dossier suggests how to improve healthcare in the union and, in particular, how to deal with the growing resistance to antibiotics in humans and animals, through a more responsible use of available treatments. at the same time, it promotes innovation for a union that is at the forefront of patient advocacy and care.
in writing. ‒ the safety of patients undergoing healthcare treatment must be an ongoing commitment and at the heart of the policy agenda of each member state. even in times of crisis such as these, it is important to ensure sufficient financial resources to ensure access to health services, especially for the most vulnerable. at european level, the health for growth programme has helped to strengthen coordination between member states to identify innovative solutions to improve the quality, efficiency and sustainability of health systems. but there is an urgency to this: antimicrobial resistance, on which the commission has focused its action since 2011 to raise awareness of a more careful and rational use of antibiotics. i am sure that european coordination of awareness campaigns on this subject will achieve this. the report voted in plenary underlines this concern by identifying strategies for action to meet this new challenge. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ patient safety and the fight against drug resistance are topics that have been addressed by both the european institutions (european commission, council, ecdc, ema, efsa) and the world health organisation (who). according to available figures, as many as 8-12% of patients admitted to hospital in the eu (over 3 million people) suffer harm or adverse events, including healthcare-associated infections, whether hospital-acquired or not (hais), many of which (20-30%) are considered to be preventable. as regards drug resistance, the latest available data from ecdc, ema and efsa show that overall, and despite some recent progress, antimicrobial resistance is a growing public health problem in hospitals and in the eu. the report calls on the commission to continue to monitor the progress of the member states by informing the public of any further progress in patient safety and also in the development of new medicines that can help to reduce the trend of increasing adverse events in the european union. in the light of these considerations, i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on safer healthcare in europe aimed at improving patient safety and combating antimicrobial resistance. i welcomed the decision to return to a subject, health security, which is already being tackled by the european institutions but which deserves constant attention and mobilization, especially after the horizontal cuts in health care as a result of the economic austerity measures. i find it unacceptable that in europe there are still tens of thousands of deaths from infections associated with health care: the pressures on health budgets cannot and must not affect patient safety. i join the call for more prudent use of antibiotics by medical personnel and pharmaceutical companies, given that antimicrobial resistance has increased considerably worldwide, leading to increased failure of treatments for infectious diseases in humans and animals. i also share the desire to ensure that european citizens are adequately informed about prevention, therapeutic treatment and the possibilities offered in the health institutions of the member states. i hope that in the future we can achieve a health system which guarantees patients their rights and restores their full confidence in health services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the patient must be put at the centre of care and that health systems must not be allowed to suffer unjustified cuts in the name of austerity. investments in continuing education, health and medical performance monitoring, early warning systems and preventive preparedness actions are needed to avoid a significant proportion of adverse events, including those resulting from the use of medicines. over the years, the need has been affirmed in all western countries for a risk assessment methodology based on the principle of "reporting without punishment", which encourages the emergence of causes of adverse events or potential risks, but which certainly cannot leave the patient the victim of the risk or even the damage caused by receiving medical care, deprived also of possible means of protection to compensate for what has been suffered. i voted in favour because the report calls for consideration of the introduction of rules to regulate the presence of product specialists in care environments. it also calls for the management of health facilities to be entrusted to people selected on the basis of competence and merit and not on the basis of political affiliations or clientelism.
in writing. ‒ healthcare and, more generally, the health of citizens are a major challenge in the construction and definition of a true european union. each new element is a fundamental step towards an organic and common vision of the european system, which avoids disparities and imbalances in assistance. in this respect, the report contributes to the assessment of how well member states have implemented measures to improve patient safety, in particular with regard to the prevention and control of healthcare-associated infections (hais). between 8% and 12% of patients admitted to hospitals in the eu still suffer from these effects. each year, approximately 4.1 million patients are affected by these diseases and represent an additional cost to health services, a cost that could be reduced or avoided through an effective prevention strategy. in this respect, i regret to note that once again there are important differences between the various member states in the capacity and speed of adaptation. the union must act to significantly reduce these infections, which are putting a strain on health systems, including through appropriate programmes and resources, to increase patient safety.
in writing. ‒ this will help patients admitted to european hospitals each year to feel more protected from the damage they suffer from antibiotic resistance and from infections they contract in healthcare facilities. antimicrobial resistance is a growing phenomenon worldwide and also affects the european union. i voted in favour of this measure because the measures proposed are aimed at using existing medical treatments more carefully and responsibly.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's report on safer healthcare in europe was proposed by m5s through an own-initiative report. the report deals with the subject of patient safety and the fight against drug resistance, especially antibiotic resistance. it encourages research into antimicrobial drugs, in particular antibiotics active against multi-drug resistant gram-negative bacteria, which must be accelerated and funded immediately if the battle against bacterial infections, whose incidence is increasing in europe, is to be won. the report aims to prevent member states' health systems from being affected by unsustainable austerity measures and cuts and calls for efforts to be focused on the development of high-quality and high-performing health systems. another essential aspect of the proposal is the reduction and regulation of all forms and types of conflict of interest in health by member states, which are asked to ensure that health systems and facilities are run independently of policy choices and that managers are chosen on the basis of merit and not political affiliation. for the reasons i have just given, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report, in which parliament asks the commission to continue to monitor constantly the progress of the member states in relation to the recommendations made by parliament and the council in the field of health.
in writing. ‒ antimicrobial resistance is a phenomenon that has been increasing over the last 20 years, causing almost 25 000 deaths per year in the eu alone. it is a global public health priority for both developed and developing countries. in addition to stressing the importance of the responsible use of antimicrobials, this text encourages pharmaceutical companies to develop new and more effective antibiotics and asks the commission to consider a legislative proposal that can provide a regulatory framework favourable to the development of these products.
in writing. i agree with the accurate report on 'safer healthcare in europe', a priority issue on which i believe more resources must be invested, both in terms of training and information policies suitable for citizens and european and national programmes capable of ensuring greater safety for patients, and in economic terms, so that to cope with the economic crisis it is not the health sector that has to pay the heaviest costs, with cuts that could have disastrous and dangerous repercussions, but rather continue to invest in research, because it is the source of hope for those suffering from any disease. i hope that this commitment will help the union to make the risks of the misuse of antibiotic therapies, both in human and in animal medicine, known and to promote a more conscious and responsible use of them in order to avoid the alarming phenomenon of drug resistance. i welcome the excellent monitoring, data collection and analysis work carried out by the ecdc/efsa together with the ema in their integrated report, as well as the continued commitment to the protection of human health by the european medicines agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report entitled 'safer healthcare in europe: improving patient safety and tackling antimicrobial resistance'. between 8 and 12% of citizens have experienced problems during hospital treatment, and about 4.1 million european patients suffer from illnesses related to healthcare treatment each year. this is a problem particularly for vulnerable people, i.e. people with chronic diseases, immunosuppressed patients and cancer patients. the recent progress report from the member states confirms the diversity of national approaches, the lack of timely prevention and the lack of adequate financial resources to combat microorganisms resistant to the antibiotics available today. action by the commission is therefore needed to promote pharmacological research and the marketing of new antibiotics, together with the promotion of awareness campaigns on the appropriate use of medicines and the reduction of hospital admission, without underestimating the obligation of the member states to check safety in the workplace for the health of health workers. the eu must therefore act at all levels to reduce these infections, to re-energize national health systems and to invest the necessary resources in patient health.
in writing. ‒ with this vote, we affirm the importance of the right of every human being to have access to safe health care. we have important tools for assessing patient safety, such as the comparable indicators developed by the osce: let's use it to ensure quality health care and safety for all human beings. i urge everyone to take the necessary action to fully implement the council's recommendations for improved patient safety. the role of the "representative of the rights of the patient" is of considerable importance in the context of safety; the citizens have the right to be informed about risks, prevention measures, but also and above all about their right to complain.
in writing. the aim of mr pedicini's report is to ensure better health care throughout europe. the improvement of public health conditions is one of the priority areas of the envi committee's parliamentary work. i believe that ensuring the safety and health of patients is a vital element in an efficient health system, since every citizen needs adequate treatment in full and absolute respect of his or her inalienable right to health. the current reality is that around 8-12% of patients admitted to hospital in the eu (over 4 million) suffer harm or even adverse events, including healthcare-associated infections, whether hospital-acquired or not (hais), many of which (20-30%) are considered to be preventable. for these reasons, i have decided to support this report.
in writing. ‒ one of the main elements of the quality of healthcare systems is to ensure the safety of the patient, avoiding that he or she may suffer or be potentially harmed by therapeutic treatment. according to the latest estimates, around 8-12% of patients admitted to hospital in the eu suffer harm or adverse events, such as healthcare-associated infections, many of which are preventable. action is therefore needed to address and encourage cooperation to ensure a high level of human health protection, to ensure that health systems and facilities are operated independently of policy choices and that managers are selected on the basis of merit, to provide basic training in infection prevention and control and to promote patient information campaigns. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ we support the report by mr pedicini on safer healthcare, and we are firmly convinced of the importance of this issue in all eu member states. firstly, there must be a guarantee at community level against any cuts in health care that might be made because of the economic crisis and that would inevitably lead to a lowering of the level of patient safety standards. it is unacceptable that in the 21st century between 8 and 12% of patients suffer during their stay from diseases other than those which caused them. the european union needs to act at various levels to reduce hospital-acquired infections, which are becoming an increasingly significant problem for the health sector. the unfortunate gap in investment and performance which has existed in recent years between the various member states must also be avoided as far as possible in the future. in this respect, the work done so far by the european institutions and the specialised agencies, which are entrusted with monitoring and coordination tasks, should be acknowledged.
in writing. ‒ i believe that this report addresses a very sensitive issue, as the need to ensure maximum patient safety from harm as a consequence of therapeutic treatment is a primary aspect in a proper healthcare system. the problem is the excessive and in some cases unnecessary use of antibiotics, which results in a reduction in the effectiveness of the antimicrobial, and data from the ecdc, ema and efsa show that this phenomenon is increasing in eu hospitals. further misuse of antibiotics occurs in the forced feeding of animals intended for human consumption. while this best practice was rightly banned in the eu in 2006, there is still a lack of adequate patient safety policies at national level and of appropriate coordination between member states. a new impetus is needed for the research and development of new alternative medicines. it is unacceptable that austerity measures in europe are affecting the quality of health care. i hope that the commission will continue its monitoring of the progress of the member states in patient safety and the development of new medicines.
in writing. ‒ whereas ensuring patient safety is essential for the overall quality of healthcare, and health culture and adverse event management are essential aspects of this; whereas the volume of available data on the prevalence and incidence of adverse events in the health systems of the member states is currently limited but is steadily increasing, and the latest available data are from 2008; that it is estimated that between 8 and 12% of patients admitted to hospitals in the european union suffer adverse events related to their care, and that about half of these cases could be prevented; i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i share the report's approach, which prioritises patient safety and protection from harm as a consequence of therapeutic treatment, and which places it as an essential element for the quality of health systems. i do not believe that the austerity measures implemented by the government justify cuts in the health system. on the contrary, we must invest in continuing training of health care staff, in new and clean facilities, in increasingly complete and high-performance machinery and in preventive preparedness measures that can block events harmful to the patient. i think the report is very much about the problem: the ultimate aim must be to ensure the highest possible level of patient safety standards in all healthcare facilities in the eu.
in writing. ‒ healthcare in europe is an important issue that needs to be given the right attention. a considerable number of patients still contract infections associated with the treatment received; infections, which could be prevented by adopting and implementing more effective hygiene standards and control programmes. the report by mr pedicini takes stock of the situation six years after the council recommendation and looks at the way forward for improving patient safety. while many member states have followed these indications and taken effective measures, the economic crisis has slowed down the implementation of this regulation. we can only continue along this path, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i have chosen to vote in favour because i think it is good that parliament asks the commission to continue to monitor constantly the progress of the member states in relation to the recommendations made by parliament and the council itself, and to communicate to the public all further progress on patient safety.
in writing. ‒ currently, between 8 and 12% of patients admitted to healthcare facilities in the european union contract infections during treatment, many of which could be anticipated and thus avoided. as this is a particularly widespread problem, i welcome the report by parliament on safer health care in europe. i think our main goal should be to put the patient at the center of the health care system. firstly, policies to reduce health budgets should be avoided in order to avoid adverse effects on the health of citizens by compromising the ability to ensure the highest standards of safety during hospitalisation. in addition, in order to better control infections in hospitals, the responsible and targeted use of antibiotics in both the medical and veterinary fields should be encouraged, so as to reduce antimicrobial resistance. finally, i hope that the commission will monitor the policies of the member states on patient safety on the basis of the recommendations made by this parliament.
in writing. ‒ i am particularly pleased with the own-initiative report drawn up, negotiated and voted on by mr pedicini. underlying all diagnosis and treatment, whether in humans or animals, must be important and concrete considerations about the responsible and targeted use of antibiotics. but these considerations must be even stronger and more present when it is not a question of care but of farming practices. antimicrobial resistance is also growing rapidly because of the misuse of antibiotics in animal husbandry. the problem is global and for these reasons, reiterating opposition to such practices (although already prohibited in the eu) is particularly important also to prevent circumvention of such milestones in the framework of bilateral negotiations for free trade agreements such as ttip.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on safer healthcare in europe. the report concerns how member states are implementing the council's recommendations on how to increase patient safety. i find it extremely important to maintain high vigilance and ensure constant monitoring to minimise adverse events affecting patients during admissions and the provision of medical services. i would like to conclude by stressing the need to promote research and development of new antimicrobials to combat the worrying growth of multidrug-resistant bacteria.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased with the result today, which saw the european parliament vote, by a large majority, on this important own-initiative report. increasing patient safety in health care and combating the threat posed by the growth of antimicrobial resistance are two fundamental objectives which parliament, the member states and the commission, in close synergy, will have to pursue with greater determination in the coming years. about 10 percent of patients admitted to hospital experience avoidable harm or adverse events. it is therefore increasingly urgent and necessary to adopt specific health policies to curb these phenomena, relying on specialised staff, and to avoid as far as possible that austerity measures affect patient safety standards. as regards antimicrobial resistance, i am convinced that there is an increasing urgency to empower doctors and patients with regard to the targeted use of antibiotics in both human and veterinary medicine; the cost to human and animal health and the impact on our economies of antimicrobial resistance is very high and therefore coordinated efforts are needed to raise international awareness of this serious problem.
in writing. ‒ although there are passages in this report which seem to be shared, i believe that the vision of 'green growth' for smes which inspired the text under voting is extremely optimistic and underestimates the real market situation and the economic crisis faced daily by small and medium-sized enterprises in europe, and especially in italy. for these reasons i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on green growth opportunities for smes, which is an integral part of the circular economy package and an important lever for creating a competitive and sustainable european industrial system. efficient resource management is one of the main drivers of business competitiveness and accounts for 40% of the costs of european manufacturing industry on average. however, to date too many smes are not aware of this potential and lack sufficient financial support in their efforts to achieve cost savings through better resource management. for this reason, it is necessary to put in place as soon as possible an action plan for smes that can provide practical information, advice and support on how to make the management of resources more efficient with a favourable cost-benefit ratio. in order to achieve improvements in resource and energy efficiency, it will also be necessary to promote efficient green technology transfer mechanisms and facilitated access to finance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is our duty to try to combine economic growth and environmental sustainability to ensure a prosperous future for our continent and our smes.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises with their products and services are a fundamental pillar of the european economy and we must safeguard this pillar and support it in the face of the challenges of a changing world. there's a change that affects all of us, and it's related to a factor that's too often overlooked: the environment. environmental policy is not the enemy of development and growth, but can be an ally of small and medium-sized enterprises when it is aimed at energy saving, efficient use of resources, rationalization, integration with renewable energy and technologies that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and dependence on oil imports. cross-sectoral collaboration, knowledge sharing and investment in research and development are key to ever-better green technologies. new technologies and the reduction of the often burdensome bureaucratic constraints in the sme sector must be coordinated at union level and supported through a european plan: because there can be no real, productive, long-term development today if that development is not also eco-sustainable.
in writing. - i voted against. my position on sustainable development is based on the deep conviction that, with the right technological innovations, economic growth and environmental protection can be complementary rather than in conflict. however, historical data show that only a relative decoupling has been achieved. in fact, this vision of 'green growth', which is also the inspiration for the report, misrepresents or underestimates the biophysical limits to human production and consumption set by system dynamics and thermodynamics. in addition, growth and austerity are antithetical, unlike the europe-oriented refrain, from which this report does not deviate sufficiently.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on green growth opportunities for smes to call for more funding, harmonisation of national regulations, bureaucratic simplifications and effective communication to encourage more environmentally sustainable smes. we need more entrepreneurship education. from the earliest years of schooling, young people need to be made aware of entrepreneurship and related issues. the erasmus programme for young entrepreneurs should therefore be encouraged. unlike multinational enterprises, smes often lack access to information and knowledge networks to keep up to date with technological advances in the green economy. this is why we must actively pursue cross-sectoral collaboration, which offers the possibility of producing innovation and new growth opportunities through the exchange of innovative ideas and knowledge, through informal knowledge networking systems. in this context, sectoral federations can play a strategic role by providing appropriate information and advice on environmentally friendly technologies, financing possibilities and related procedures.
in writing. ‒ smes are the lifeblood of much of italian society and anything that can help them is therefore a priority. at the same time, environmental sustainability is one of our main concerns and a growth opportunity linked to this aspect can only be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ economic growth in the coming years is clearly linked to the specific sector of the so-called green economy. development can no longer be achieved without investment in environmentally friendly products, processes and services. apart from the need to protect the environment, more efficient management of natural resources also reduces production costs and increases productivity. it is estimated that better use of resources could save european industry a total of €630 billion a year. the transition to a low-carbon economy is certainly a challenge for society, but it also offers new opportunities for growth and development for smes. the task of the member states is to create a favourable environment to facilitate their access to research and innovation, not only through ad hoc funding but also by streamlining the bureaucratic process to facilitate the introduction of innovative products on the market. the report voted in the house is going in the right direction and for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report builds on the green action plan and is an initiative to further stimulate smes to develop the benefits of green growth. while there is no internationally agreed definition of green growth, there is consensus that it is a combination of economic growth and environmental sustainability. the opportunities for smes are linked to several areas such as renewable energy sources, and in particular the economically sustainable exploitation of wind, solar, water and geothermal energy, energy efficiency, waste management, emission reduction and electrification. the need for simple and accessible sources of information, the need to encourage start-ups through collaboration with research institutes, universities and vocational training institutes was also noted. green growth should therefore be part of a wider strategy to promote job creation and economic growth among smes. in the light of these considerations, i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ smes, micro-enterprises, social enterprises and green cooperatives are the backbone of the european economy and are also drivers of economic growth and job creation. despite their potential, they still face numerous obstacles to their launch, the procedures for applying for european funds, which are still too bureaucratic and therefore prohibitive for some smes, or the rules on public procurement, including green and electronic procurement, which are not always clear and uniform at european level. i agree with my colleague de backer that we need to invest on several fronts: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's financial instruments, in particular the european investment bank, the european investment bank and the european investment bank. secondly, the potential of the european budget, through its various programmes and funds, must be fully exploited to enable smes to access international markets and improve the design of more environmentally friendly products, production processes, practices and commercial services.
in writing. ‒ smes are at the heart of the european economic fabric and are so in every member state. i believe that everything parliament does to improve the administrative, regulatory and economic environment in which smes have to operate must be supported. the report as a whole addresses many issues in a vague and open to interpretation, but also emphasises many aspects related to the circular economy and resource efficiency. in particular, i am particularly in favour of the concept also reiterated in this dossier of the need to shift the tax burden from labour to the use of natural resources. i believe that this is a prerequisite for the long-term success of smes in a world characterised by biophysical limits which cannot be overcome. the next revision of the small business act must give due attention to these considerations and perhaps envisage a green small business act to stimulate the adoption of entrepreneurial practices that will help the transition of the european economy in the shortest possible time.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report because i share the view that economic growth can go hand in hand with environmental sustainability. this is a key concept which i believe should be strengthened: environmental sustainability can become a horizontal policy criterion and act as an added value in creating long-term wealth, development and employment. i would particularly like to stress the importance of the structural funds and the commission programmes (starting with horizon 2020 and cosme), which must work in synergy with the new european fund for strategic investments and be used to the best advantage to promote the competitiveness of smes, in the context of the transition to a low-carbon economy based on recycling and recovery. businesses need to be enabled to make the best use of available funds by reducing administrative burdens and developing clear support strategies to encourage smes to invest and improve resource and energy efficiency. however, first and foremost, the commission and the member states must ensure that all arrears are paid in a timely manner, allowing businesses and local authorities to take action to achieve the objectives and the strategy.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are the connective tissue of the european economy, accounting for 99.8% of all eu enterprises. efficient management of resources is one of the main drivers of the competitiveness of these companies. with this action plan, the european union wants to help smes to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the green economy. repair, maintenance, recycling and ecodesign have great potential to become tools for economic growth, job creation and support in addressing environmental challenges.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on green growth opportunities for smes because they are the backbone of the european economy and the key driver of economic growth and job creation. the report supports the concept of green growth and circular economy, linked to several areas of considerable relevance such as renewable energy sources, in particular: the widespread and sustainable use of wind, solar and water energy, energy efficiency, resource efficiency, waste management, emission reduction, etc. there is great potential for the green economy, but this potential cannot be fully exploited unless several basic conditions are first met, such as creating a more entrepreneurial spirit by developing open and innovation-friendly rules, introducing more diversified access to finance and creating more opportunities for knowledge sharing. the report also calls on the commission and the eib to ensure that smes, including eco-friendly and innovative ones, are the main beneficiaries of support in the implementation phase of the investment plan for europe, and stresses that to achieve this, the provision of advisory services on resource efficiency and eco-innovation needs to be strengthened.
in writing. ‒ i will abstain as we believe in the value of the opportunities smes can have with new technologies, but the report forgets, or rather omits, the negative effects that have been so far in the development of some green energy policies.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the european union's economy. successful smes mean more growth, more jobs, more prosperity. the eu must therefore do everything it can to support them. today we have been particularly concerned with a great opportunity for them: the green economy. i voted in favour of today's report because it points the way to solving the problems that prevent smes from reaping the full benefits of the green economy, recalling in particular the importance of inter-sectoral collaboration and informal networks, so as to close the gaps that smes may have in competing with multinational companies in the field of knowledge. the strength of this text is that it does not confine itself to ideological approaches but, on the contrary, proposes an objective and pragmatic approach, open to the novelties and realities of european industry.
in writing. given the urgent need to promote new innovative development actions that can offer opportunities and alternatives to emerge from the crisis, i share and support the report on green growth opportunities for smes, convinced that in order to give new impetus to the economy it is necessary to support and guarantee young people, to make their access to credit simpler, more diverse and clearer, to expand opportunities and platforms for the exchange of information and knowledge and, above all, to include the prospect of environmentally friendly growth in a framework that focuses on simplifying regulation, investing in innovation and development, with a european approach that tries to overcome, as far as possible, the fragmentation of the various member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on green growth opportunities for smes. the green economy is a great opportunity to achieve the sustainable growth europe 2020 calls for, to create new jobs, to reshape the production system and to protect the planet by mitigating climate change. smes, which account for over 90% of the european economy, must be the protagonists of green growth. to that end, it is crucial to address some open questions. the report also draws attention to the problem of financing, highlighting the need for smes to have access to different sources of financing, involving venture capital, bank loans, financial instruments and public support. i share the concern about the transfer of knowledge and good practice and welcome european initiatives to promote the cross-border sharing of ideas between smes and the various stakeholders. green growth is also linked to the theme of research and innovation. support for smes to innovate processes and products and a strong link with the research community are needed to fully exploit the potential of the green economy for european reindustrialisation. support for start-ups and entrepreneurship and the development of technical skills are also key issues for this sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr de backer's report, which is based on the commission's green action plan for smes, as it is an initiative to further stimulate small and mediumsized enterprises to develop the benefits of so-called green growth. conscious of the need and importance of sustainable industrial development, i hope that resource efficiency will be improved, also through cooperation with research institutes, universities and vocational training institutes.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on green growth opportunities for smes, sources of innovation and job creation, real engines of european growth, backbone of the eu economy, representing 98% of european enterprises. the great potential of the green economy must be fully exploited, especially in the fields of innovation, research and development. we need to make our economy more environmentally friendly, empower female entrepreneurship, raise awareness among consumers and support measures for entrepreneurship in general, develop open and innovation-friendly rules, establish diversified access to finance and create more opportunities for knowledge sharing.
in writing. ‒ we support the report on green growth opportunities for smes because we are aware that sectors linked to eco-friendly growth offer tangible benefits not only ecologically but also economically, and that we will see strong growth in the sector in the coming years. it is necessary for the political leadership to realise the potential of the green economy and to have a regulatory framework that is as simple as possible. this report effectively identifies the main issues and opportunities, and leaves a general optimistic impression about the green future of smes. the green economy has enormous potential, but it must be managed carefully and above all stimulated and facilitated by the eu institutions, which must be committed both to facilitating the financing of companies that decide to enter the green economy and to speeding up the sharing of knowledge and best practices. as the report points out, the rules should not be too strict and divergent between countries: over-regulation and lack of harmonisation are among the main obstacles facing smes moving towards a green economy. it should also be stressed that consumer awareness is needed and that measures to support small and mediumsized enterprises in general need to be developed.
in writing. ‒ whereas enabling smes to turn environmental challenges into economic opportunities, while acting in a sustainable manner, is one of the principles of the small business act, even though there has been no significant policy progress and although smes often face inconsistent policies when starting an economic activity and implementing environmental standards; that smes' compliance with the growing number of environmental standards will be supported by both the market and the legislation; that the eu and the member states should minimise the administrative burden in new and existing rules and aim to avoid creating additional costs for businesses in relation to compliance with those rules; that new initiatives have been proposed to reduce the regulatory burden on smes and other sectors, which should be implemented by the commission and the member states; i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ smes are certainly the backbone of the eu economy and are certainly key to growth and job creation. smes are welcome to accompany economic growth while respecting environmental sustainability. this is why i believe that the eu should facilitate access to credit for smes and the commission should develop further programmes and instruments aimed in particular at those companies which propose eco-friendly structures. i fully support the report and hope that the commission will succeed in simplifying the various divergent national systems and that the governments of the member states will do more and more to make our economy environmentally friendly, exploiting the full potential of the green economy.
in writing. ‒ the report on green growth opportunities for smes presented to the plenary follows the commission's green action plan, which is an initiative to further stimulate smes to develop the benefits of green growth, in particular the importance of support for the green and circular economy and the potential growth in these areas. i have decided to vote in favour of this proposal, particularly because it stresses the need to improve resource efficiency, to provide simple and accessible sources of information and to encourage start-ups and spin-offs through cooperation with research institutes, universities and vocational training institutes.
in writing. i have chosen to abstain because, although i consider the protection of the environment to be fundamental, i believe that the growth model advocated by the text in question presents some problems in terms of its feasibility.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on green growth opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). smes represent 98% of european enterprises and provide over 67% of jobs in the union. to successfully turn environmental challenges into opportunities for economic growth, the union needs to put in place programmes, tools and initiatives to stimulate smes to develop more environmentally friendly products, production processes, business practices and services. however, we would point out that smes, when they decide to seize green growth opportunities, face a number of challenges related to the access to finance, the use of new technologies, and the knowledge and implementation of the existing regulatory framework. i believe that an effective response is needed to this, including the creation of more opportunities for knowledge sharing, tax mechanisms to incentivise credit and policies to support entrepreneurship. the growth potential of the green economy is vast and could, in my view, bring great benefits not only to smes but also and above all to society in general.
in writing. ‒ smes are at the heart of the european economic fabric and are so in every member state. the business environment, however, varies widely from country to country and often from region to region: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. everything parliament does to improve the administrative, regulatory and economic environment in which smes have to operate must be supported. the report as a whole addresses many issues in a vague and open to interpretation, but also emphasises many aspects related to the circular economy and resource efficiency. in particular, i am particularly in favour of the concept also reiterated in this dossier of the need to shift the tax burden from labour to the use of natural resources. i believe that this is a prerequisite for the long-term success of smes in a world characterised by biophysical limits which cannot be overcome. the next revision of the small business act must give due attention to these considerations and perhaps envisage a green small business act to stimulate the adoption of entrepreneurial practices that will help the transition of the european economy in the shortest possible time.
in writing. ‒ we have today approved the own-initiative report on green growth opportunities for smes, which calls for more funding, harmonisation of national legislation, bureaucratic simplifications and effective communication to encourage more environmentally sustainable smes. we have asked first of all for more effective communication on alternative forms of financing to bank lending, such as venture capital, business angels and crowdfunding, as the green economy requires a wide range of instruments. smes are also too often confronted with overly stringent bankruptcy laws which do not allow them to start a new business easily after the failure of an economic activity. it is also important to share knowledge and to spread it: the most important points are inter-sectoral collaboration, the creation of informal networks and the invaluable role that sectoral federations can and should play in this regard. particular attention should also be paid to excessive red tape, which imposes additional burdens and creates obstacles to the functioning of the internal market: the commission has also proposed that the various national systems, which are often too different, be simplified and that more harmonized measures be introduced.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on green growth opportunities for smes. this is an own-initiative report in response to the commission's communication on the green growth action plan and focuses on financing opportunities, resource efficiency, energy efficiency, the circular economy and industrial synergies. i think it is extremely important to explore all the growth opportunities for smes, given that they represent more than 98% of european enterprises and account for more than 67% of total employment in the union and 58% of gross value added. i would like to conclude by recalling that smes are the backbone of the european union's economy and a key factor in europe's economic growth in the long term.
in writing. ‒ i welcome today's vote because i believe that the green economy can offer businesses, especially small and medium-sized businesses, significant economic and environmental benefits. smes need to learn to identify and exploit the green growth opportunities that the market is able to offer today, also considering that the green economy sector and the market for environmental goods and services has not been affected by the crisis that has hit the european economy in recent years. of course, as the rapporteur has pointed out, it is impossible not to recognise the existence of a whole range of difficulties which smes face on a daily basis. it is therefore essential that the legislator identifies and addresses these issues in order to create a harmonised framework to support entrepreneurship, which will also allow small businesses to exploit the full potential of the sector. in particular, access to credit, including through alternative financing methods, should be promoted, efforts should be made to reduce bureaucracy, a regulatory framework should be established to meet the challenges posed by new technologies, and shared investment in research and development should be encouraged, as well as greater sharing and dissemination of knowledge.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on green growth opportunities because, overall, it introduces the monitoring of the results of the green plan for smes, which will allow for quick and effective corrective action if the strategy proves to be deficient. in fact, so far it has not been possible to monitor the results achieved by smes that have had access to green innovation funding and that have only partially translated into real savings for the company. our vote was instrumental in calling on the commission to include in the circular economy package the extension of the eco-design tool to include the resource efficiency dimension. some concerns remain about the possibility of legislative proposals being put forward which would represent an unnecessary administrative burden for smes. on the whole, however, it was a step forward, and i voted in favour of it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate has proved to us that the common foreign and security policy is one of the pillars of the european union and that in these times of crisis, with the war in ukraine, the conflicts in syria and iraq, the advent of isis and the crisis in libya, europe's responsibility and therefore our responsibility as members of the european parliament is stronger than ever. we know very well, however, that parliament cannot do this alone. the council must also face this emergency with the utmost determination. in december 2013, the council recognised the need to enhance defence capability and strengthen industry. unfortunately, however, little has been done in practice. european union missions seem to be a formal, sometimes ideal, fact. that has to change. we need more funding: without money, it's hard to be effective. we must coordinate with the other international institutions - the un, nato, the african union, the osce - if we are to have any chance of success. we all know that the security of the whole of europe is at stake. the war is on our borders and so it is not possible for the european union to have only a few countries taking part in military operations. we as members of the european parliament are discussing today, and then we will, i hope, approve the excellent report by mr danjean and others which contains some of these concerns. we expect, vice-president mogherini, that the council will finally take concrete steps to make this common foreign and security policy a reality and not just words in the wind. i know that it will reverse this, it has already done so in the past few days, it will do so in the coming days, i know its concrete nature and we really hope that it will be concrete. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i am saying that we need, and i said it very clearly, to coordinate the world's institutions more closely to deal with the issue of security. but let 's be clear . we need more concrete action in europe, because in this period, in these last years, we really have not seen concrete action. i have seen the concreteness of this in the past few days, in the action of vice-president mogherini in setting up a mission in a few days and in any case in responding to a huge problem we have, which concerns above all some of the mediterranean countries. maybe it's not about your country, but it's about us. so i think that coordination between europe and the other institutions is essential.
.. thank you president, not armed conflicts of crisis and stability. the widespread violations of human rights also occurring close to the borders of the european union are a cause for concern. the european union is not a mere institution, but a political entity. it is not european, it is not yet able to act as a single decisive actor. the new challenges facing europe highlight the absolute need for member states to work together in a genuinely coordinated common action within the framework of the common security and defence policy. i therefore hope that the june defence council will be able to make concrete progress in this direction, improving the european union's defence capability and its capacity to contribute to crisis management. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community. the council should work towards a more integrated market which would limit the duplication of defence research programmes and activities and increase european competitiveness in this field.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the world is changing very rapidly. the geopolitical changes in africa, the instability in the middle east and the crisis in ukraine require the union to take urgent, concrete and firm action on the common security and defence policy. because we are late, we must tell the truth, and strategically targeting prevention could have an effective impact where the crisis hotbeds are now more than inflamed. without a long-term strategy, european security policy will be as weak as our future international credibility, and i should like to thank the high representative for the firmness with which he has been pushing the need for a mission in the mediterranean in recent days. but a european security policy must have a shared commitment in deeds and not just in words, an approach that is not hostage to vetoes and iron arms or a false indifference that is strategic and that even hundreds of deaths do not affect. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, dear mrs mogherini, the last time i spoke to you, president schulz suspended me for seven days because i told the truth: i said you didn't count as an emeritus"... "i won't swear or i'll take another seven. so i'm here to tell you that since you're from the communist party, you've been a member of the communist party since you were a child, right? then maybe you have in mind what mao tse-tung said, that if there's so much confusion under the sky, the situation is perfect. does he mean that the confusion in europe, the lack of a correct policy, the lack of certainty and the lack of security for us europeans, is his communist strategy, taken from mao tse-tung? i think that you communists like poverty, insecurity and disaster so much, perhaps so much that you want to reproduce it again in this europe. then i say to her, and i don't say the bad word anymore because i guaranteed it to schulz, it's not that she doesn't count as an emeritus, she doesn't count as a blessed minchia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the national consultation on immigration and terrorism (as if the two phenomena were linked), the use of the death penalty as a deterrent, the provocations on the merits of an allegedly illiberal democracy are some of the points timmermans rightly mentioned. i will stop here because this is only part of president orbán's recent statements. our discussion, it must be clear, is not based on prejudice towards president orbán, on antipathy, on the fact that president orbán belongs to a different political family than i do, on a calculation or on the pretense of lecturing. the point is that president orbán has crossed the line of decency with these statements, and the seriousness of his statements cannot be underestimated. i say to mr weber that we do not exorcise problems by shifting the responsibility onto others who have a different political cloak. i repeat: i do not discuss these things because orbán belongs to the popular family, which i have the utmost respect for and also great collaboration. i am discussing these things because they are harmful to the whole of the values and ideals on which the european union is founded, and we will not compromise on this and will be vigilant. the real issue in hungary, as it seems to us, is not the attack on democracy in the classic forms we know but the hollowing out of democracy by its trivialization. an empty democracy in which everything is said and then denied, in which even the most important words, such as democracy and freedom, are abused and turned into empty and meaningless slogans, a kind of confusing state in which democracy becomes a low-level spectacle, a game in the mud that legitimizes the return of the most extreme forces - and this should worry us all! - like the fascists, the nazis. what concerns me most is not just the seriousness of the allegations, but the gloomy climate that these allegations create, and it is the news of these hours of death threats against a homosexual activist in budapest to whom all my and our solidarity goes. but this also reveals something else. i think that your provocations are also weapons of mass distraction, that is, you want to divert the attention of the hungarian people by means of these provocations from the real problems that hungary is experiencing, which are very serious and very profound economic and social problems. i conclude: i feel a great sympathy and affection for the hungarian people; i remember the years when a prime minister undermined the credibility and prestige of our country, and i think you should not do the same, mr orbán. hungary is a great country and deserves better, it cannot be turned into a stage where everything is allowed, where even the values of our living together become games to risk a few votes. and if you have no respect for the values of the european union, have respect for the dignity of your people.
answer to a blue-card question. i will tell you what i think of timmermans. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am very pleased with the way in which the commission has dealt with this matter. i think he has a respect that goes far beyond me and this hemisphere. we are not trivializing the discussion here. it is clear that we can discuss immigration - we do it all the time, we too, there are different thoughts. the problem here is to question the fundamental principles of the european union: the abolition and non-application of the death penalty is a fundamental principle of the european union. now, if a head of government, who is not just any citizen, stands in the middle of the street and speaks in a bar and says that he wants to abolish the death penalty in a country which belongs to the european union, that should cause us concern. we're not exploiting anything. if a head of government of one of the 28 countries of the european union refers to a so-called illiberal democracy, should we not be concerned? this is not coming from someone sitting in a bar talking, but from the head of government of one of the 28 countries that belong to the european union.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to put the death penalty on the agenda, to declare that liberal states are successful and that they function better than democracies and that they would therefore be models to be imitated: these are just the latest statements by president orbán that leave no room for imagination and that add to the laws that put a gag on freedom of expression and the press, undermine the independence of the judiciary and deprive the constitutional court of its role as guarantor. and as if that wasn't enough, orbán has also launched a shocking and biased public consultation that fuels prejudice against immigrants. that's enough. the time has come to demand that the fundamental rights which are in the dna of the european union be guaranteed by the member states not only at the time of accession but also ex post, always. it is unacceptable to ignore this anti-democratic drift in the heart of europe and to wash one's conscience, as ostriches do when they bury their heads in the sand. everyone must play their part, starting with the commission, which must promote the monitoring of fundamental rights, which is now indispensable, country by country. as rapporteur for the report on fundamental rights in the european union, i proposed the establishment of a mechanism to ensure a higher level of protection in this respect. the union should develop a proactive action plan setting out the actions to be taken to ensure the full realisation of all the rights and principles protected by the charter of fundamental rights. it is also necessary to create a database on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union and in individual member states and to extend the european union justice scoreboard to include the assessment of criminal justice systems and the respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law. this is to prevent risks from turning into actual violations, as is probably happening or may soon happen in hungary. today, we are not discussing the statements of a naive politician who is blown away by the wind of propaganda, but the positions of a european prime minister who has never had any qualms about reforming his country's constitution to conform to his populist and authoritarian design. europe must open its eyes and intervene before it is too late. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. what is silly is not the public consultation itself, which is certainly an instrument of democracy, what is silly is the subject matter of the public consultation. the moment a member state, the prime minister of a member state, initiates a public consultation on the reintroduction of the death penalty, it goes back to the law of the cliff, it goes back to those primordial laws of an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. this is what is shocking, because in the european union the rights of democracy, the fundamental rights are the basis of the permanence and the very existence of the european union.
i'm asking for a blue card. mr balczó, in your country there is a former parliamentarian of your party, his name is györgy gyula zagyva (i apologize for the pronunciation), who physically threatened a young man just because he is a gay activist. and this activist, since last july, has been living under death threats and there are websites offering 10,000 euros as a bounty on his head. i would like to know, in the matter of opinions - because you have spoken of opinions - what is your opinion on this, whether you intend to condemn this former colleague and these threats that are being made. i would also like to hear from president orbán, since he is about to speak.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with you in government, it seems clear to me that hungary is going through a regressive and autocratic phase. we started with the suppression of press freedom, the suppression of the activities of non-governmental organizations, with discrimination. we now announce the reintroduction of the death penalty. what are we gonna do next time? are we preparing for the holy inquisition or are we aiming for the witch hunt? in this climate, a young italian man, my age, named andrea giuliano, is threatened with death, and even offered a $10,000 reward by a former jobbik mp - these are his friends on the far right - and as if this were normal, he posts it on his website. this guy's name is andrea giuliano, and he lives in a really paranormal situation in the european union. i ask you, mr orbán, since you are here, to do something to protect the safety of this young man.
hungarian prime minister. mr president, first of all i would like to thank you in advance for your comments, we have heard italian, french, scandinavian, german. i just want to say to you first of all that i would never dare speak in that tone about your country, your people and your nation. (the president interrupts the prime minister until the interpretation is restored) mr. president, we could hear french, italian, german, scandinavian, baltic. without naming them, i would just like to say that i would never dare to speak in such a tone about your country, your people and your nation. i simply cannot account for my own conscience, so allow me to express my respect for hungary and the hungarian people to the countries represented here by people who attacked hungary. allow me not to respond to the comments from the hungarian parliamentarians, because i do not want to turn hungary into a pathetic flowerbed or to portray our country in that color. i am aware that hungarian mps are attacking their country here, and there were even some who suggested nothing less than that financial support from hungary should be withdrawn because it does not deserve it. well, they're in. ladies and gentlemen, whoever mentioned illiberal democracy, we don't have time to go into that, but i just want to point out that i think that liberal economic and social organizing principles failed during the 2008 financial crisis, and that's why we're in the crisis that we're in today. ladies and gentlemen, i'm glad to hear that many of you have read sándor márai here, but do you feel a little reluctant to explain to us what, how, in what spiritual sense our great national poet wrote? i was delighted to hear the speech of my colleague, mr louis michel, who gave me a lecture on democracy. i would like to inform him that i ran for prime minister six times, lost three times, won three times, and probably will again, and i don't consider this evidence of anti-democracy or autocratic rule. and allow me to respond to the liberal chairman. mr. president, i think i understand your situation and your motivations, because in hungary the liberals were once a big party, they played a serious role in the fight against communism, but they have almost disappeared from public life. i understand that this is infuriating to european liberals, but i ask you not to be angry with the hungarian voters, including myself. ladies and gentlemen, to those who object to our consultation questionnaire, i must give you an information: the chairman of the liberals does not consider it appropriate to ask whether you would support the hungarian government to introduce stricter immigration regulations in contrast to the permissive policy of brussels. it's all over the place, that's the point. we didn't have this problem until 2012, ladies and gentlemen, hungary had a national regulation, and we could arrest refugees at the hungarian borders and we could provide them with legal process. in 2012, the european union forced us to change the hungarian rules. since then, the immigrants have been pouring in for a living. if you hadn't forced hungary to change the rules, we wouldn't be in this mess today. i understand that the european union wanted to try a new regulation in hungary. it's been a few years, it hasn't worked. i ask you to allow us to defend hungary ourselves. and finally, ladies and gentlemen, this is going to be a long debate, whether it's about the death penalty, whether it's about the refugee issue, whether it's about the livelihood immigrant issue. i'm glad we've achieved our goal here today: the debate has begun. although the road ahead is long, europe has taken its first important step today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, respect for human rights, freedom of information and expression, and the independence of the judiciary are the very foundations on which the european union is built and which it is based. within the framework of respect for human rights, abolition of the death penalty is a precondition for staying in the european union. president orbán, you spoke of pragmatism. well, then, as a pragmatist, i can't quite figure out one thing: what is the point of talking to the citizens of a member state about the death penalty when it is explicitly prohibited by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union? why take steps backward rather than look ahead? it's a practical one. it must be clear that there are fundamental values and issues in the european union which cannot be joked about for the sole purpose of winning votes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr orbán, do not say that we have spoken badly of the hungarians and hungary, because that is simply not true. there are the tapes of the debate. we don't want to say what a government should do. we do not want to impose anything on anyone, except respect for the fundamental values on which the european union is founded. we don't have "orbitis", which is a form of allergy to her, we have nothing personal about her, absolutely nothing. we want to discuss the political struggle, including immigration, which is a political issue, not a democratic one. the thing about democracy and membership of the european union is the death penalty, the idea of illiberal democracy. on these points you are free, of course, to say what you want, but you must also tell your fellow citizens that by doing so you open the door to an outcome which we want to avoid, namely the exit of hungary from the european union. that is what we want to avoid; but if you continue like this, you will take hungary out of the european union.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are thousands of organised criminal groups in europe, which often use companies based in different countries, linked together like chinese boxes, to hide and launder the proceeds of their activities. the provision for an assessment of the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing affecting the internal market and greater cooperation and exchange of information also with third countries are significant aspects of the objectives to be pursued. fighting money laundering means fighting money laundering, corruption, crime, terrorist financing and other illicit phenomena that distort the legal economy. transparency plays a key role in this battle. in addition to improving the traceability of transfers of funds within the european union, every effort should be made to make the activities of companies and other bodies with legal personality transparent, so that the beneficiaries, owners and holders of effective decision-making powers of those activities can be identified. it is essential to establish public registers where this kind of information can be collected, updated and stored and made accessible to as many people as possible. although progress has been made in the regulatory framework, gaps and loopholes still remain. for some legal institutions, such as trusts, conditional access to information does not facilitate the fight against important financial transactions that may conceal money laundering and evasion. while safeguarding the guarantees for data protection, the direction to be taken is to avoid any form of restriction on access to data which contradicts the very idea of transparency which is to be promoted.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that this report misses, or at least is very vague, one of the issues which i think should have been at the centre, given the very serious risks we are facing, namely the risk of financing through opaque financial channels - let us think only of the expansion of islamic finance. but above all, let us remember that there is a vast network of call centres, islamic butchers, food shops, etc. in europe, activities or investments whose origin we can never really understand. and i do not think that these modest instruments will solve the problem of a slow but steady penetration, perhaps of a much wider scope than we think, of capital that leads to obscure interests, probably also linked to not only criminal but also terrorist organizations. so let's ask ourselves this: do we finally want to work to identify who still protects these illegal circuits today? i 'm not ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this fourth anti-money laundering package is certainly a step forward compared with the previous situation, although, in my view, we are still a long way from having an effective, efficient and concrete instrument to combat what is a phenomenon of enormous scope. as mr chrysogonos rightly said, this is a scourge, but it is also very convenient for those who see fresh capital of dubious origin, or even of certain illicit origin, coming to their market. i think that this directive has been watered down or reduced in size by the negotiations with the council, which unfortunately were negotiated on the down side. it is a beautiful framework, but it must be filled in by the different states in different ways, and we cannot be sure that the different states will do so in the most appropriate way or in any case in a consistent way. i mean, i think we missed an opportunity to make some headway.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that the package on money laundering that we have adopted is a good chapter in european parliamentary democracy, a success for this parliament which owes much to the tenacity of the rapporteurs, the negotiating team and also to the positive role played by the italian presidency. the result is that europe is not up to the most advanced international standards but ahead of them. more than just downside risk: parliament has improved the proposal, it has made a very significant step forward, namely the public register of beneficiaries of companies, including trusts. and i would add that recital 14, the one linked to article 30, adds that the legitimate interest concerns not only anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism but also related offences, such as corruption, tax crimes and fraud. in this respect parliament has really gone a step further than the original scope of the proposal and has linked this action to the larger initiative we are undertaking on the issue of tax evasion and tax crimes. so this is a really important step forward. i agree with the rapporteur: this should be a model that europe should ask others to follow and, above all, this parliament will not just legislate well but also monitor the ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate parliament, which has worked and done a very good job. the progress is clear and there are many. unfortunately, on some points - and i repeat this unfortunately - the council, under pressure from some member states, has succeeded in waterboarding, i repeat, the excellent work and text that this parliament has produced. our main concerns are the restrictions on access to the central register of beneficial owners of trust companies and other legal structures and the wide margin of discretion left to the member states. in particular, access to the central registers will not be open in a transparent manner to the public, as requested by parliament and civil society, but will be limited to the authorities and to those who can demonstrate a legitimate interest, a criterion that is not clearly and unambiguously defined. furthermore, most trustees will remain outside the central register. the identification of beneficial owners is also complex and limited to those who own or control more than 25% of the share capital. finally, although there is nothing to prevent a state from taking even more stringent measures, we know that the risk of further waterlogging at the level of transposition is very high. the wide discretion at national level also risks leading to uneven implementation across member states by creating new loopholes and possibilities for regulatory arbitrage. we must be very careful about this issue of trust funds because we have seen how organized crime often recycles through these instruments.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the enormous effort of the other rapporteurs and also the italian presidency. after lengthy negotiations, europe is about to take a step forward in the fight against money laundering, corruption, organised crime and tax evasion. the establishment of a centralised public register, which is compulsory in all member states, in which the beneficial ownership of companies and trusts is to be recorded is of particular importance. we would certainly have liked the council to have been more courageous in guaranteeing, as we have asked, open access to the registers, and not just to those who show a legitimate interest. but this is a good start and it will be crucial to ensure access for journalists and ngos. transparency is crucial to protect the legal economy - an estimated 70% of corruption cases involve shell companies - but also to tackle organised crime and the scourge of tax evasion, which costs hundreds of billions a year in europe, and even more in developing countries. it's a global problem and we need global solutions. we hope that this directive will be the first step on a long road ahead.
member of the commission.– mr president, the vote tomorrow will conclude a two-year-long negotiation process on the recast of the regulation on insolvency proceedings. i want to pay tribute to the rapporteur mr zwiefka and to the committee on legal affairs for their most efficient work on what i see as only a first step in this area. honest entrepreneurs deserve help when running into difficulties. the improved tools on jurisdiction will increase legal certainty and put in place effective safeguards against abusive forum shopping. i know that this issue was particularly important for parliament. the establishment of a system of interconnected insolvency registers will increase the transparency of insolvency proceedings for creditors. this is a very tangible benefit of the reform and it will foster a cultural change in the business community across europe. the revised regulation covers also preventive insolvency proceedings, which aim at rescuing businesses, as well as a larger range of personal insolvency proceedings. it clarifies jurisdiction rules. synthetic secondary proceedings avoid duplication of proceedings. the revision also provides the first legal framework for coordinating the proceedings of members of groups of companies. of course, our work is not finished with the adoption of the regulation. we will spare no efforts so that practitioners and citizens can properly apply the new instrument by the time it replaces the old regulation. the commission has also followed up on your goal, and last year adopted a recommendation on a new approach to business failure. the commission is currently assessing the actions the member states have taken in response to the recommendation. it is obvious that we need modern and efficient insolvency rules that help rescue viable businesses and give entrepreneurs and consumers a second chance. let me give you several illustrative figures. today in europe, half of all businesses do not survive the first five years of their existence. in the eu, 200 000 firms go bankrupt per year, that is 600 a day, resulting in 1.7 million direct job losses every year. around a quarter of these bankruptcies concern businesses that work cross-border, and the latest crisis has led to a surge in non-performing loans in all member states without exception. last month we held a conference in riga to look at the way ahead. it was a useful first occasion to gather views and brainstorm about the next steps. the capital markets union project, which the commission adopted recently, also contains a clear reference to the need for modern insolvency regimes as a gateway to a flourishing business and investment climate. we are interested in members views when starting to map out the next steps. i understand that consumer insolvency is of particular concern to some of you. i would like to recall that the principles laid down in the commission recommendation are also relevant in this regard. in particular in its recital 15, the commission urges member states to consider applying the principles of the recommendation also to consumers. the commission has carried out a specific study on over-indebtedness of european households and families. the findings are clear. people who lose their jobs and incomes have a higher probability of falling into the debt trap, as do people confronted with accidents of life no one can anticipate. bad financial choices come down to two basic scenarios: a credit which is too short-term, or interest rates which are too high, often to be explained by inadequate financial advice by lenders. in the framework of this study, the most frequently—named best practice reported by stakeholders relates to legislative steps to make insolvency proceedings more readily available. however, the situation is not homogeneous across the eu. for example, in a number of member states consumers do not have access to personal insolvency proceedings, and in many others the discharge periods are much longer than the recommended three-year period provided for in the commission recommendation. as regards next steps, besides the evaluation of the recommendation and the already existing material, the commission is carrying out a comprehensive comparative legal study in the 28 member states regarding consumer insolvency procedures. it will be completed in mid-january 2016 and this will provide us with a good basis to discuss next steps. i would like parliament to be fully involved in this process.
i would like to thank mr zwiefka for his work in reaching agreement with the council on a measure which has been long awaited by consumers and businesses in europe. the rapporteur and the commissioner, whom i thank, have mentioned the uncertainty surrounding this sector and the rules. it is no coincidence that the commission tried to propose a comprehensive reform of the whole sector two years ago. the safeguards in this first important step are fundamental, particularly, of course, the one which seeks to limit the so-called forum shopping, also because in too many cases companies and debtors suddenly moved their headquarters before the opening of insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings. this regulation introduces a legal framework that is finally secure and protective and the ability for the courts to assess whether the displacement is genuine or not, and this is a very important step. i shall therefore vote in favour of the regulation, the ratification of the agreement which, as we said earlier, is an important step forward. but above all i am comforted by the commissioner's words, because it is the first of many other steps that europe must take in this area.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as you have seen, we have concluded the debate with a broad consensus on the solutions proposed. this is due to a positive relationship between the rapporteurs and for this we must first of all thank our colleague mr zwiefka. there are a few aspects worth noting. the first, which i heard mentioned a short while ago, is the one we agreed on on the extension of the scope of the directive, the one concerning hybrid procedures and restructuring. we need to anticipate the risk of failure, which is often overlooked because the less litigation there is, the better it is for the european citizens. the extension of the scope gives us a legal instrument in addition to the existing ones, which can greatly reduce conflict. it was also important to identify the main centre of interest: the phenomenon of searching for the place where to activate the procedure is a negative phenomenon. the shopping in the marketplace should be reduced, if possible, even eliminated. i think we have the conditions here to do that. the coordination procedures for insolvency of groups of companies, which parliament has already indicated, are also a good step in the right direction. finally, there is the question of workers or creditors. we have introduced a rule which is that of the provision of a preferential right: these are the most vulnerable, often penalized by decisions of others that fall on them. there's good news for them, too.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we know that one of the problems of the european union is the low birth and fertility rates. there are alarming figures for all the member states, and the only reason why the 'old europe' has not had negative growth rates is because of the contribution of immigration. but it seems that we are failing to put into practice policies to encourage births and indeed, after years of stagnation, we are moving towards the withdrawal of the directive on maternity leave. we have opposed this scandal by all means and we will continue to oppose it. the council has never put the issue on the agenda, and lately the latvian presidency has not even dared to come to discuss it in the femm committee. it is clear that there are considerable differences between the various member states on the subject of maternity leave, which is not a holiday, and perhaps it is necessary to lower the expectations of parliament a little, but it is urgent to bring home a result and give concrete and immediate answers to european women. no more discrimination, which is often forced upon employers, even if they do not want to, because of faulty policies, and no more discrimination between women who can afford to become mothers and women who instead live the period of pregnancy and breastfeeding as a prelude to their dismissal or the end of their career prospects. we all agreed in the various debates on a text which only provided for unanimous opposition to withdrawal, without requiring a new legislative initiative in advance. i would like to ask the rapporteur, mrs arena, and also my colleagues from the other groups, why we are voting on a resolution which, as it stands, is in fact helping the commission to find a justification for withdrawing the directive. why do you want to ask for a new legislative proposal now, when we already have a basic proposal on which we should have reopened the debate and which, as i understand it, you want to abandon, taking its withdrawal for granted? we shall support the green amendments and the report as a whole. i wonder what the other groups will do and what, if anything, has caused the change of course.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make a statement here. in five years, in italy alone, cases of maternity bullying have increased by 30 percent. 800 000 women, in the last two years alone, have been fired or forced to resign, precisely because of their choice of motherhood. now, i find it shameful that the council has essentially not spoken and that the commission intends to withdraw its proposal, not because i believe that women are the subject to be protected or to be protected or that we should protect or protect the family. we must guarantee the right of women to self-determination in europe. that 's the point . the right to self-determination. the choice which is proposed to us today is essentially a non-choice, and we think that the approval by this house of a text such as that proposed by mr tarabella is a refusal to see, to see that there is a gender pay gap, that there is very strong discrimination against women in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, first of all, the subject is of fundamental importance: we are talking about safety, about women's health at work at a crucial time, the moment when they are giving birth and bringing children into the world. secondly, the present european context is characterized by a declining birth rate, as my colleagues have already mentioned. in the face of this, the european legislator should legislate quickly, and instead we have been witnessing for years an incomprehensible blockage of the negotiations, a blockage that is constantly and constantly coming from the council. the interests involved are different and a proper balance must be found. european legislation must be adopted in full respect of the principle of subsidiarity, and national cultural traditions must also be taken into account. but what must not be tolerated, is not tolerated, is a prolonged stagnation without a perspective. we cannot stop at personal interests and not at the rights of women and men.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a europe which really wants to grow is a europe which supports a development idea capable of promoting rights and dignity, equal access and equal opportunities. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens is a good one. the issue of maternity leave and also paternity leave is at the crossroads of the challenge of growth and development through a new culture of work and its quality, which excludes no one from the challenge before us, which is to promote a fair europe in which women also play a leading role. the council's delaying attitude on the issue of maternity leave is unacceptable, not least because it is supported by reasons which i consider to be absolutely false. i share and therefore subscribe to the commitment and the considerations in support of the resumption of the dialogue. we have to do it fast and we have to do it right.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we talk a lot about equality, rights, gender equality, sexual and reproductive rights, but the political weight of this institution does not seem to be strong enough to guarantee women the ability to reconcile family life with their working life. i want to thank maria arena for her tenacity and for her determination. it seems that there is not a consensus in europe on granting mothers a period of paid leave before and after pregnancy. but what do we still ask of women? to wait for the heads of state and government, mostly men, to graciously grant them the right to care for their children, without losing their jobs or their pay? i mean, isn't being a mother a european right? the deadlock in the directive on parental leave is unacceptable, and i would add unbelievable, and it shows the serious lack of political will to take care of working mothers. if it fails, president juncker has announced that the commission will present a more modern initiative. the terms are unknown and we are all eager to know them. in the meantime, women's problems and difficulties are the same as ever.
in writing. combating all forms of social discrimination: the principle of equal treatment, regardless of sexual, religious, political, cultural or ideological identity, is undoubtedly one of the fundamental values of our european feeling. but the data do not always give us any comfort in relation to the objectives of the social and employment policies that europe is trying to guarantee. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. all the necessary measures must be taken immediately to ensure that discrimination is finally overcome by allowing equal access to the world of work for men and women, equal economic treatment and equal conditions, and last but not least, the possibility of reconciling private and professional life thanks to the guarantee of adequate maternity leave, which would also mean the push to expand families and have more children, ensuring mothers and families a future with less uncertainty.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too am pleased that this parliament has tabled a joint motion for a resolution, which rightly highlights a number of critical points, including those relating to the integration of disabled people into the world of work and the unblocking of the anti-discrimination directive. however, as a member of the committee on petitions, i wish to raise a problem which is not discussed very much: the situation of family carers, i.e. those who care full-time for a dependent family member. some european countries have legally framed this figure, thus assigning it the right rights and duties. unfortunately, there are other countries, including my own country, italy, where family carers are left completely alone in their daily activities of caring for their family members. i think it is unacceptable that what is in fact a very hard work should not receive the necessary social security, health and insurance protection, especially if the model we want to pursue is that of caring for the disabled person in a family environment rather than in residential institutions. we therefore hope that the countries which have not yet recognised the family carer will be able to do so as soon as possible, given the importance of a truly holistic approach to the issue of disability.
i listened to your speech with interest and i can confirm that the issue of disabled people is an important one. i would say almost a key issue for your agency and also the european commission's agenda. let me make a few comments on the debate that has already taken place here. first of all, i would like to join my colleagues in saying that it is very sad that three member states of the european union have still not ratified the convention. i would therefore ask you to do something, if it is possible on the diplomatic front for the commission to do something to get these three countries to join the international convention. the second thing i want to emphasise, and which i liked in your speech, is that the issue of the full inclusion of disabled people is not just about their employment and education, although these are absolutely key agendas and there is a lot of work to be done on this issue, but there are other things, such as the consideration of the draft directive on the accessibility of public bodies' websites. i'm very much in agreement. i was once a member of the czech government, i was in charge of access for citizens to public administration, to justice, and i know how difficult it is for people with disabilities to communicate with the authorities, to communicate with justice. if they could at least access this information and have access to information from public bodies provided in alternative formats, then i think it would be a big job. so i support it and thank you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities has marked a starting point, a watershed for the approach of politics and institutions to the problems of the disabled. by influencing decision-making processes and by placing the issue of disability at the centre of the national and european political agenda, it has triggered a kind of domino effect. member states and eu institutions have made significant changes to their policies and reforms, so that disability rights are now included in every area. it is right that we no longer talk about transport, tourism, employment, education, infrastructure and participation in public life without devoting specific measures to accessibility for the disabled. but there is still much to be done. there are still substantial differences in treatment between member states and this should begin with the creation of minimum standards to which all member states should start to conform. for example, there are 80 million disabled people in europe and it is right that they should all be treated equally, have the same opportunities and the same rights everywhere.
i believe that it is fair to say that the immigration package presented by the european commission represents a turning point for this parliament and i would like to thank this house, and in particular president juncker, vice-president timmermans, commissioner avramopoulos and federica mogherini, for acting courageously. if one word were to sum up this strategy, i would say "solidarity": the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the commission's strategy contains all the answers to the immigration challenge. in the short term, the introduction of a quota system for asylum seekers will ensure a more solidary and responsible management of flows, the strengthening of poseidon and triton will help to avoid new maritime tragedies, and the european union's mobilisation alongside the united nations will have to be aimed at defeating human traffickers and boaters. i want to be clear on this point: for us socialists at stake there is no military intervention in libya. the aim of our action must be to break the traffickers' chains and to this end we must equip ourselves with all the tools we can. no pity, no shyness with the merchants of death who profit from migrants. the text also contains a long-term vision, built around three pillars. first of all, the common asylum system must be strengthened by reforming dublin. the second pillar is the creation of a shared border management system that controls our borders, without falling into the illusion that they can or should be hermetically sealed. there is, in fact, no direct relationship between terrorism and immigration. and then, finally, a european policy for legal immigration. these are the stages ahead of us. it begins a path, a path that is finally holistic, unitary. i would like to conclude with an appeal to the member states. i appeal to all heads of government, especially the most reluctant: do not throw away this opportunity, do not give in to the blackmail of those who foment fear. europe has often been reproached for talking, talking, talking but not acting. with these measures we are finally showing that europe can work. we can't let this go. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. mrs ferreira, you probably missed a passage in my speech where i made it clear that for us socialists there is no military mission at stake. so no force or violence in this situation, but just using other tools to fight and defeat the divers.
before i give the floor to mr vergiat, i would like to inform the house that, in view of the time, the very high number of speakers and the very high number of 'catch the eye' requests, i will not authorize 'blue card' requests, except in exceptional cases or for personal reasons.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to commissioner avramopoulos and commissioner timmermans. we have heard the commission say that the european agenda on immigration wants to change words into deeds and that the contribution of the european parliament's resolution was very important. i would now like to see what the impact will be on the facts of the proposals which have been put forward by the european commission, firstly the temporary resettlement mechanism and then the permanent resettlement mechanism: article 78 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union is invoked, which therefore provides for a temporary mechanism to deal with emergency situations of mass influx; the commission has not yet taken a decision on the dublin regulation, nor on the new legal pathways to the european union. what does it change? when will certain situations be designated as emergencies and when will everything go back to, say, normal business? sounds like another celebration of hypocrisy to me. in fact, italy, like many other mediterranean countries, will continue to receive hundreds and hundreds of migrants who will continue to risk their lives on board the boats. so i would like to understand what is new in this european union agenda. and again, as regards the distribution among the member states, there was no mention of the refusal announced by france, the united kingdom and hungary. how do solidarity and cooperation apply in this case? they're imposing themselves? it seems to me that this is a real failure of the principles on which the european union is founded. and finally, i would like to say to the council: i would have liked to hear more about this military operation eunavfor med. what is this about, exactly? is this the famous boat bombing? is this really the way to solve the problem of organized crime and human trafficking? can we get some more clarification, rather than read about it in the papers?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has shown great courage in initiating what i hope will be a radical change in european migration policy. i can now say that the commission's work has lived up to our expectations, with forward-looking proposals that are consistent with what this house has adopted. we must now ensure that the emergency measures are put into effect as soon as possible and above all that the alliance between the commission and parliament is not broken. we will ensure that the search and rescue operation in the mediterranean is conducted with the same courage and foresight as mare nostrum. let us see ourselves in the eyes of those fleeing conflict and poverty. we, too, in their place, in choosing between certain death and probable death would not hesitate to board the first boat; at least i would have known what to choose: my life, to save myself, not to land in eldorado but in the hope of a better future. the fact that the mediterranean patrol operation has been entrusted to italy and to our navy is a source of great pride and a source of assurance for us. finally, we will ensure that the member states do not, in the interests of electoral consensus, call into question the objectives of solidarity to which they are bound by the treaties and the international convention. i would add that the migration phenomenon is not managed with slogans, but by investing in concrete, courageous and far-sighted actions, with a holistic approach. to those who say "let's help them at home", i remind them that they have the opportunity to do so now by returning stolen natural resources conflict minerals to their rightful owners: the local people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have welcomed with moderate satisfaction the european agenda on immigration that has been drawn up, because at last there is an awareness that immigration is not just an italian, maltese, greek or spanish problem, but an absolute european emergency that requires a coordinated response from all of europe. i have appreciated the effort made by the commission to reverse the trend by, for example, tripling the appropriations for frontex and by identifying mandatory, not optional, quotas to distribute asylum seekers among all the member states. certainly more could have been done. above all, we must act upstream, not downstream, through bilateral agreements with the north african states in an attempt to accompany their process of economic development and for the return of illegal migrants, because we must be absolutely supportive of asylum seekers but just as intransigent towards illegal immigrants. it is nevertheless an important first step forward which must be appreciated. what i find most puzzling is the attitude of some member states, which in recent days have expressed some perplexity and criticism of the solidarity mechanisms identified. the selfishness of the states cannot and must not prevail. the council must now do its part, but there is absolutely no going back.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this empty chamber is the best proof of the great interest that europe has in the 5 000 dead and in the fate of italy: look how many people are worried about the invasion! australia with the "no way" campaign says that anyone who sets foot in australia without a document does so for 15 minutes and then is turned away. france has turned back a thousand illegal immigrants in the last week to italy. austria rejects hungary doesn't want them. britain does not want them. some genius in brussels decided that boats should be sunk before they leave to harm the divers: better late than never. a libyan government consultant warned us: the isis terrorists are coming in in masked boats. this morning, a moroccan terrorist involved in the tunisian museum massacre was arrested at the gates of my milan. since europe does not exist beyond the chatter and the minutes of silence, i call on the national governments and the italian government to defend the borders, block departures and suspend schengen before it is too late.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, last week in lisbon i had the honour of representing the european parliament at the parliamentary assembly of the union for the mediterranean, where 33 speakers spoke of the need to share the reception of asylum seekers from the 28 european countries, of economic participation in rescue, identification and transfer activities and of making operation triton similar to mare nostrum. migration, commissioner, changes geographical references and imposes new responsibilities, and we know that europe, when it speaks with one voice, is a strong europe. we support the commission's idea of moving towards a common immigration policy, commissioner, just as we share president juncker's position of working towards a european defence policy. this approach strengthens the alliance between parliament and the commission; we know that we are at the beginning of the legislature and we have important challenges, for example, to transfer european immigration policy and european defence policy from the states to europe, because a strong europe is a europe that has more europe and not less. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, more border controls and quicker returns for those who do not want to and do not qualify as refugees seem to me to be the central points on which the commission has focused, and i think this is very important in order to finally clarify a slippery and too often ambiguous subject. it's the central point that scares our fellow citizens. and then the fight against the criminals who torture, who kill, who exploit: they are the new slave-owners of the present. the left, again, is always ambiguous: it is ambiguous, it is a play on words, because by saying asylum seekers, instead of entitled to asylum, it opens up to illegal immigration. italy is full of people who were denied asylum but because they appeal they stay in italy and they commit crime because they don't have a job, how do they support themselves? last march, in terni, a boy was killed by a person who had been refused refugee status because he did not meet the criteria, and it was a terrible tragedy. i thank the commission: he's painstakingly clearing up this dangerous, guilty, irresponsible mess.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has given a good sign: the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices. but the next day, here we are again, the ballet of states, between selfishness and myopia. this is unacceptable! i wonder, by the way, if the geography was different and the landings were in brighton, what cameron would tell us today. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you must make it clear to the citizens: this is not an episode, it's not a season, it's not the good weather, and it's not random: migration has causes and consequences that need to be addressed, and sometimes solutions come at a cost. sure, there's a fearful and sometimes hostile public, but leadership's job is to lead toward the bigger picture. europe would not have been born if the leaders of that time had stopped in the face of a public marked by the rancor of war. today, the very essence of europe, respect for human rights and values, is at stake. it's not a vanity exercise, and it's not even a molasses, as i've heard. it's the foundation of our coexistence. if we start to lose it, today it's the refugees, tomorrow who knows.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner avramopoulos, i am pleased that after two years this proposal from the commission, this migration agenda, has finally arrived. i think that we should first of all try to inform the citizens, because i come from a country where citizens often and willingly ask what europe is doing, they say that europe is leaving us alone in the face of this problem of immigration. i am italian and i am sicilian, so i have experienced firsthand the problem of disembarkations, the problem of deaths in the mediterranean. then explain how the european union works: the european parliament has spoken, the commission has now spoken, but the third part is missing, which is the council, which are the states. and here we are again, with states being selfish in the face of what is a global emergency, in the face of what is a great moment when europe should be showing solidarity. what do i hear? i hear france saying it disagrees. i hear britain with cameron, who just won, saying he's not interested in dividing his shares. and so we are taking a thousand steps backwards on the european union.
in writing. the immigration policy presented by the european commission is demagogic and completely inefficient. this type of distribution of immigrants in the eu, which has not yet been accepted by all member states, is certainly not in itself a measure capable of stopping migration flows, nor of countering the phenomenon, now evident, of terrorist infiltration into irregular migration flows. the commission is determined not to restore schengen and not to help these desperate people in their own country, which are the only solutions to this problem. too much of a hassle? then we follow australia: stop the boats and send them back to their ports of departure. the results are zero illegal immigrants and zero casualties at sea. the politics of goodwill doesn 't work . what more does europe need to finally realize this?
in writing. i can only agree with the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini: there can never be a real solution to the immigration problem until we have rooted out the root causes, the poverty of the countries from which the boats come and the instability caused by the wars in libya and syria. i welcome the news that the resources available for frontex's joint operations triton and poseidon have been tripled. it is clear that without adequate funding we cannot go very far. but the problem must be heard throughout europe, and all countries must make a commitment to take in the migrants who arrive, in accordance with a quota system. it has been said that the boats carrying hundreds of people are destroyed by passersby, often causing them to sink and die: it may be a temporary solution, but it's only a palliative. what is needed is a common asylum policy which makes it possible to identify and distinguish between refugees fleeing the horrors of war and criminals trying to escape justice. the commission's agenda on migration is shared, and we must now work together to make it a reality.
in writing. they were all standing in this parliament a month ago for yet another massacre. they were standing last october. and then two years ago, for the lampedusa massacre. stand up and be quiet. since then, thousands of men, women, and children have died again. they came here to europe to ask for their rights to be recognized. this is the fifth time this year that immigration has been discussed in this house. and this morning many have spent their time, our time, on populism and demagogy for electoral purposes. to gain consensus or, as most do, to not lose it. the european commission has finally delivered a bold agenda on immigration, and some people still want to take their time, and they have doubts, they say no. the same is true of the countries which reject a sharing plan which affects only 20 000 people in the whole of europe. it must show that it can manage the flow of migrants, a phenomenon which is the result of a profound and rapid geopolitical change that leaves us unprepared. in june the council will follow up the battle we have fought in parliament and the agenda the european commission has drawn up. so that solidarity and sharing are not just empty words.
in writing. finally europe. politics has won. after the strong demands of parliament, the european commission has had the courage to tackle in a decisive way a subject which is unfortunately often underestimated by the countries not bordering the mediterranean, but which is vital for the european union, for what we have been, for what we are today and for what we represent in the world. the reception of migrants, of those fleeing war situations, of human lives that see hope in europe, is not the usual emergency: we can't turn away from living in a world that is now globalized, but we can choose how to be part of it. that's our job. and if we really want to create a 'european union' which is not only a european union in name, we must be united in facing this challenge. the commission is therefore in favour of 'mandatory quotas' for all member states and the de facto overrun of the dublin agreements, and is also in favour of thinking about how to get to the root of the problem by intervening in africa with investments that promote the development of local communities first and foremost. a 'smart solidarity' that does not make people irresponsible but makes everyone a protagonist of their own future.
member of the commission.– mr president, the commission would like to highlight the reasons for the commission delegated regulation repealing regulation no 2336/2003 on the ethanol market. the commission adopted this delegated regulation in the framework of its better regulation and simplification agenda. this commission delegated act will remove administrative burdens for operators and administrators without affecting our border protection, allowing the commission to continue monitoring the ethanol market in the european union more efficiently. at its meeting of 20 april 2015, the council confirmed it had no objection to the commission delegated regulation and the commission made a statement to confirm that it will continue to collect the necessary data for monitoring the ethanol market, with particular attention to imports at zero duty. the commission invites the european parliament to reject the motion of objection to the commission delegated regulation. this will allow the publication of the regulation in the official journal of the european union and its entry into force. this is an opportunity for the european parliament to align itself with the objective of reducing red tape for european citizens and business and of simplifying european legislation, a shared responsibility to which the european parliament, the council and the commission have committed together. the commission confirms its commitment to a better regulation agenda as illustrated by the better regulation package adopted by the college.
oral explanations of vote
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ the european parliament spends more than €200 million a year on the maintenance of its three seats (brussels, luxembourg and strasbourg). unfortunately , the new round schedule confirms the status quo: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. this economic waste is compounded by pollution from travel, with 19,000 tonnes of co2 produced each year, as the european union has committed to reducing carbon dioxide emissions by 40% by 2030. i therefore voted against this calendar.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, as provided for in rule 145 of its rules of procedure, was asked to give its opinion on the dates of the 2016 partsession. i have no problem with the method, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the 2016 timetable is in line with the ep's working methodology. we are also using this space to emphasize our opposition to the double seat of parliament for the obvious reasons we have repeatedly stated.
in writing. i thank president schulz and the bureau of parliament for presenting the calendar of sittings for the year 2016 and i vote in favour of the proposal. i would like to reiterate the importance of giving a concrete signal to european citizens by reducing costs and bureaucratic obstacles and using our working time more efficiently: the dual seat between strasbourg and brussels - although understandable from a historical and symbolic point of view - is no longer appropriate for the proper conduct of parliamentary business. i hope that parliament, by a large majority, will once again be able to speak out in favour of putting an end to this wasteful practice.
in writing. the voting on the calendar of parliament's sittings is one of the internal organisation decisions, the prerogative of us members. i voted in favour of the organisation of the 2016 european council.
in writing. ‒ the annual calendar of the european parliament's work is set each year by parliament on a proposal from the conference of presidents and is divided into parts and meetings. i consider this a fundamental instrument for ensuring the management and organisation of parliament's work. that is why i voted in favour of the calendar of parliament's sittings for 2016.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the proposal of the conference of presidents on the calendar of the 2016 sessions and i voted in favour of it.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ the report itself is shareable: the aim is to update the existing eu-south africa agreement by means of an additional protocol following the accession of croatia to the union. the reason why i decided to abstain is that i believe that this type of agreement should be maintained only with those countries which really need aid and cooperation to get out of a situation of underdevelopment, whereas south africa, despite going through a period of crisis, has shown in the recent past that it has an extremely flexible economy which has enabled it in a few years to move to a level of development and wealth very important compared to the previous stage of poverty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is important that croatia, as a new member state, is included in all the treaties and agreements concluded by the european union.
in writing. ‒ allowing the new member state of croatia to be an integral part of the eu-south africa agreement today is not only a gesture of gratitude to the republic of croatia but also an opportunity to reaffirm the value of the eu-south africa partnership, which is not just about trade but is also a good example of cooperation and development. currently, about 4 out of 10 south africans live below the poverty line, the country is plagued by severe inequality (gini coefficient 0.7/1) and 25% of the population is unemployed. the fact that the agreement contains provisions on other relevant areas of cooperation and development in addition to economic cooperation (such as: social cooperation, based on an organised dialogue focusing on freedom of association; workers' and children's rights; equality between men and women; combating violence against women; environmental cooperation, in particular with regard to climate change; cultural cooperation; cooperation in the fight against drugs and money laundering; cooperation in the field of health, in particular the fight against aids) makes it a good example to be taken into account for other future agreements.
in writing. - i abstained. the vote itself would be absolutely peaceful. the aim is to update the trade, development and cooperation agreement with south africa by means of an additional protocol, as the eu now has one more member state. what makes me doubt whether we should vote in favour is the very need for such an agreement to be in force with a country with a dynamic economy like south africa. south africa is one of the so-called "brics", that is, those countries which in a few years have moved to very important levels of development and wealth compared to a previous stage of poverty. the crisis is certainly hitting south africa hard, with very high unemployment rates, but that does not mean that agreements of this kind should remain in force only with countries which really need aid and cooperation to get out of underdevelopment.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the additional protocol to the agreement on trade, development and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of south africa, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the trade, development and cooperation agreement ('the tdca') between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of south africa, of the other part, was signed in pretoria on 11 october 1999 and entered into force on 1 may 2004. taking into account the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu as the 28th member state, the proposed council decision aims at the approval of the additional protocol to the eu-south africa tdca, taking into account the accession of croatia to the european union, on behalf of the union and its member states. i think this is a reasonable proposal and i have therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the document does not present any particular criticisms for which i should have voted against.
in writing. ‒ the measure in question concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the eu and its member states, of the additional protocol to the trade, development and cooperation agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of south africa, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia, as the 28th member state, to the eu on 1 july 2013. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the trade, development and cooperation agreement with south africa aims not only at strengthening trade relations with the pretoria government but also at deepening development cooperation issues. in this context, the signing of an additional protocol would allow croatia, as a new member state, to become a contracting party to the said agreement. i therefore intend to vote in favour of this draft resolution in view of the important implications that such an agreement could have for the european union, particularly in terms of development and cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the trade, development and cooperation agreement ('tdca') between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of south africa, of the other part, was signed in pretoria on 11 october 1999 and entered into force on 1 may 2004. on 1 july 2013, the republic of croatia joined the eu as the 28th member state. the draft council decision aims at the approval of the additional protocol to the eu-south africa tdca, which takes account of the accession of croatia to the european union, on behalf of the union and its member states. the additional protocol is intended solely to make the few technical and linguistic adjustments to the agreement referred to above which are required by the accession of croatia to the eu. the signing of the additional protocol is necessary to enable the republic of croatia to become a contracting party to the trade, development and cooperation agreement. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the trade, development and cooperation agreement ('tdca') between the european union and the republic of south africa was signed in pretoria on 11 october 1999 and entered into force on 1 may 2004. on 1 july 2013, the republic of croatia joined the eu as the 28th member state. i voted in favour of this protocol, which aims to make the technical and linguistic adjustments to the tdca required by croatia's accession to the european union.
in writing. ‒ the relationship, if not considered carefully, would seem absolutely peaceful. the aim is to update the trade, development and cooperation agreement with south africa by means of an additional protocol, as the eu now has one more member state. the question that is not addressed is how the world economies with which the eu has relations change over time and this, especially in the case of the so-called brics, should be assessed much more carefully. that's why i'm going to abstain.
in writing. i voted in favour of the additional protocol to the eu-south africa trade, development and cooperation agreement, which needed to be updated following the accession of croatia as a member state. i would like to highlight some of the new areas where the agreement has been particularly improved: the fight against weapons of mass destruction; the fight against terrorist financing and organised crime; the fight against the production, trade and accumulation of so-called 'small arms and light weapons'; the prevention of mercenary activities; unconditional support for the international criminal court and its work to end impunity and uphold international justice.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr stier on the conclusion of the protocol to the trade, development and cooperation agreement with south africa to take account of the accession of croatia. i welcome the new development provisions introduced in the trade, development and cooperation agreement, particularly as regards the fight against poverty, the effectiveness of aid and the link between migration and development, always remembering the importance of respect for security rules and reciprocity clauses.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the trade, development and cooperation agreement with south africa. the basis of this agreement is an agreement to strengthen bilateral cooperation in a number of areas, with a view to achieving a number of objectives: strengthening bilateral dialogue, supporting south africa in its economic and social transition process, promoting regional cooperation and working on the liberalisation of bilateral trade in goods, services and capital. it is essentially an agreement which strengthens relations between the two realities by working towards an improvement in political and economic dialogue. these are the main reasons why the agreement is in my favour.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the recommendation on the draft council decision on the extension of the additional protocol on trade, development and cooperation between the european community and its member states and the republic of south africa to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. we take this opportunity to note how the trade, development and cooperation agreement is bearing fruit, both in terms of trade and in terms of the prospects for south africa's development. the republic of south africa is a strategic partner of the eu, particularly in view of the leading role it plays in southern africa and the continent as a whole. on the other hand, the accession of croatia to the european union is a very positive event, which in our view makes it automatically necessary to extend the agreement with the republic of south africa. croatia and south africa are two countries with a dramatic recent past, albeit in different ways, which, thanks in part to their relationship with the european union, want to look to the future with confidence and hope.
in writing. ‒ whereas the additional protocol is intended solely to make the few technical and linguistic adjustments to the trade, development and cooperation agreement between the european community and the republic of south africa required by croatia's accession to the eu; whereas the signature of the additional protocol is necessary to enable the republic of croatia to become a contracting party to that agreement; the commission has also taken note of the fact that, in addition to economic cooperation, other provisions refer to a number of very important areas of cooperation linked to development, such as social cooperation, based on an organised dialogue, concerning in particular freedom of association, the rights of workers and minors, equality between men and women, the fight against violence against women, environmental cooperation, in particular with regard to climate change, cultural cooperation, cooperation in the fight against drugs and money laundering and cooperation in health matters, in particular the fight against aids. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ following the accession of croatia to the european union, it was necessary to open negotiations with south africa for the approval of the additional protocol to the eu-south africa agreement to take account of croatia's accession. it is a proper procedure when there is the accession of a new member state, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation tabled, which provides for the approval of the additional protocol to the trade, development and cooperation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of south africa, of the other part. the republic of croatia, the last country in chronological order to become a member of the european union, will thus also be able to take part in the agreement.
oral explanations of vote
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this measure, which is now being considered for second reading. i support this text, which provides for new and more stringent methods of financial control to intercept movements of money for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing.
in writing. - i vote for it. the report calls for greater financial controls to intercept money movements for money laundering or terrorist financing.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing, amending regulation (eu) no 648/2012 of the european parliament and of the council and repealing directive 2005/60/ec of the european parliament and of the council and commission directive 2006/70/ec. i believe that both money laundering and the financing of terrorism hinder the proper functioning and stability of the european system and put society and its interests at risk. the adoption of the anti-money laundering directive is a significant step towards greater effectiveness in combating these problems, and i have therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ while recognising that significant progress has been made compared to the current situation, i am not satisfied with the compromise reached on access to public registers. i consider it a missed opportunity for greater transparency and for the introduction of effective instruments in the european anti-money laundering framework. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the text adopted represents an important step forward in the european anti-money laundering framework: it not only aligns eu countries with the most advanced international standards, but goes far beyond them. the directive contains a number of ambitious provisions which will enable europe to make considerable progress in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. in particular, in order to increase transparency on the ownership of companies and trusts, the text adopted introduces a centralised register of beneficial ownership information in all european countries. the directive also recognises the importance of a supranational approach to combating money laundering and terrorist financing risks in the union and moves in this direction by entrusting the european commission with the task of conducting a supranational assessment of these risks and making recommendations to member states so that they can deal with them effectively. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the measure aims to strengthen the internal market by reducing cross-border complexity, protecting society's interests from crime and terrorist acts and contributing to financial stability by safeguarding the soundness, orderly functioning and integrity of the financial system. breaking down barriers in the internal market not only facilitates the creation or development of legitimate activities in the eu, but can also provide greater opportunities for money laundering and terrorist financing. criminals engaged in money laundering activities could therefore seek to conceal or disguise the true nature, origin or ownership of the goods in question and turn them into apparently lawful proceeds. money laundering and terrorist financing pose a serious risk to the integrity, orderly functioning, reputation and stability of the financial system. to this end, european legislation has been adopted which needs to be constantly updated, due to the changing nature of the threats posed by money laundering and terrorist financing, facilitated by the continuous evolution of technology and the means at the disposal of criminals. in the light of these considerations, i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the new anti-money laundering directive, which aims to strengthen the fight against tax crimes and the financing of terrorism and which introduces an amendment to the previous framework in order to strengthen the internal market and promote greater transparency of financial movements. the increasing complexity of the financial sector calls for stricter rules to ensure the security of both the european economy and its citizens, given the well-founded suspicions of money laundering and terrorist financing. i therefore welcome the proposal put forward by parliament to oblige the member states to keep central registers containing the names and information of the beneficial owners of companies and other legal entities. these records will then be made accessible only to those who can demonstrate a 'legitimate interest' in relation to money laundering, terrorist financing and associated suspected offences that could help to finance them, such as corruption, tax crimes and fraud. this will allow for a more adequate level of control over financial movements, increasing transparency without compromising the privacy and data protection rights of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ this is the fourth anti-money laundering directive, proposed by the commission in 2013 to align the european framework with international standards developed by the financial action task force. the purpose of the directive is to combat money laundering, tax evasion and terrorist financing by increasing transparency and improving the traceability of financial flows within the eu. the directive, which was voted in parliament during the last parliamentary term, was essentially watered down by the negotiations with the council during the italian presidency. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of radioactive substances. the wide discretion at national level also risks leading to uneven implementation between member states, creating new loopholes and possibilities for regulatory arbitrage. even if this new directive is going in the right direction, the many gaps do not allow us to give our support to the final text. so i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the commission aims to strengthen existing rules on anti-money laundering and money transfer by aligning them with international standards and fatf recommendations. the establishment of a public register of beneficiaries is a key step forward in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. we are dealing with a sensitive subject with important implications. international terrorist groups, which increasingly need to circulate money to keep their terror networks alive, use money laundering to conceal the true nature, origin or ownership of assets, turning them into apparently legitimate proceeds. money laundering and terrorist financing constitute a serious risk with potentially devastating consequences for society as a whole. we must keep up with the changing forms that international criminals are giving to their mechanisms, and we must do so quickly and courageously, without fear of offending some large financial group which is exploiting the weaknesses of the system for its own benefit. if not, we will have an obsolete and useless weapon against one of the most serious threats of this early millennium.
in writing. ‒ €330 billion is the figure for recycling in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of laundering the proceeds of criminal activities and terrorist financing goes in this direction. the aim is to build an appropriate and balanced legislative framework that includes all those measures against money laundering by criminal organisations, including those involved in fundraising linked to terrorist activities. for this reason, european action must be coordinated at international level within the framework of the international financial action task force. a great deal of attention has been paid to preventive measures through the establishment of rules for financial and private institutions. in particular, measures to recognise its customers were encouraged. therefore, member states should be able to oblige third-country institutions operating in their territory to comply with the requirements relating to transparency in the european union. i therefore consider that the progress made in this direction is significant in order to ensure that money laundering and terrorism are tackled vigorously in europe.
in writing. ‒ i certainly welcome the willingness of this parliament to work on a directive to combat money laundering, terrorist financing and money laundering and to introduce greater transparency and traceability of financial flows into the european system. however, it cannot be overlooked that the text which was voted for the first time in parliament during the last legislature has now returned to the house for its second reading, having been considerably lightened after the negotiations in the council during the italian presidency. the commission is particularly concerned that the central register of beneficial owners is only accessible to those who can prove a legitimate interest, which is not specified, and to the authorities, contrary to parliament's request. it is also important that a very wide margin of discretion is left to the member states, which could lead not only to further relaxation of the rules at national level, but also to a very uneven implementation of the directive. for these reasons, and because we did not want to vote against a text which seems to be moving in the right direction, we decided to abstain from the vote.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the text which sets the objective of greater financial controls to intercept movements of money for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation which gives instructions for the publication in the official journal of an important directive which combats the use of the financial system for money laundering or terrorist financing. a european union strategy against crime and terrorism is needed. today we have completed an important part of our fiscal strategy: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. i welcome the important legislative proposal to strengthen and extend the measures of directive 2005/60/ec (third anti-money laundering directive) and the international recommendations of the fatf (financial action task force) on which it is based. i share the need for more information on money transfers, with more rigorous checks on transactions, recipients and payers, the lowering of the maximum cash payment threshold, and i also believe that it is of fundamental importance to strengthen the fight against money laundering and reduce the risk of financing terrorist acts through the financial system, up-to-date and accurate information on the beneficial owners of institutions and companies in the member states in a register accessible to the main comparison and control systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the directive which created new european instruments to combat money laundering, because i believe it is of fundamental importance to strengthen the regulatory framework and the instruments to combat a phenomenon of global scope, in line with the international rules in force, which are often non-binding. the new legislation, consisting of a directive and a regulation, took two years of work and it was only in december 2014 that political agreement was reached in the council under the italian eu presidency, which made it a qualifying battle. the 'fourth anti-money laundering directive' adds to the existing framework by introducing very important new elements such as the creation of central registers, as requested by the ep, which contain information on the actual beneficiaries of funds, accessible to the competent authorities, financial information units, banks or financial institutions. other parties than the latter may also access the central registers if they can demonstrate a 'legitimate interest'. the obligation to take other precautions in dealing with politically exposed persons is also introduced and clarified. the directive also aims to make the information of the person transferring money clearer and more accessible. personal data is fully protected.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation by mr kariņš and mr sargentini on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing, following the commission's proposal, which is a revision of directive 2005/60/ec. i fully agree with the need for new regulations to ensure greater transparency. all this is useful in supporting the fight against terrorism and organised crime in a decisive way, while at the same time strengthening the internal market of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the recommendation on the revision of directive 2005/60/ec on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing reaches a final agreement after 2 years of negotiations. finally, we have a revision of the directive which can help effectively in the fight against money laundering, tax evasion and tax fraud, with more transparent financial transfers to support the fight against terrorism and organised crime.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the council's position at first reading on a particularly sensitive issue such as the need to prevent the financial system from being used for money laundering or terrorist financing. we are particularly pleased to vote for the adoption of an act which has seen the trilogue negotiations concluded during the italian six-monthly presidency. the introduction of a register of the actual beneficiaries of funding is certainly a step forward in the direction of greater transparency, which at the same time can serve the interests of the member states when determining the definition of legitimate interest. the directive lays down a minimum list of information required, namely the name, date of birth, nationality, country of residence of the beneficiaries and information on the use of the funds. the text is fully in line with and provides for community alignment with the new international anti-money laundering standards set in 2013.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the council's position at first reading and the opinions of the economic and social committee and of the european central bank, having regard to the joint deliberations of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and to their joint recommendation, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the relevant committees the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs had voted jointly and adopted the recommendation at second reading of the report on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing, recommending by an overwhelming majority that the council's position be followed in plenary. as we have seen, the position expressed by the two committees was followed.
in writing. ‒ i support the text for second reading. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the libe and econ committees call for the introduction of a register of benefits received, which the state can consult to verify the validity of these donations.
in writing. ‒ in the current international context, organised crime and terrorists enjoy increasingly significant financial power, often fuelled by the laundering of illicit proceeds and funds. to combat these phenomena, it is necessary to introduce new and complex instruments to increase the transparency of capital transfers within the single market. i believe that the obligation on member states to keep central registers and to ensure that the commercial registers or business registers in their territory contain information on beneficial ownership which is readily accessible to the competent authorities, financial intelligence units and obliged entities such as banks can help to achieve this. that is why i have decided today to vote in favour of the revision of the anti-money laundering rules. finally, i hope that greater access to and availability of this data can really help to prevent the financing of terrorism.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the directive which is part of the new anti-money laundering package, aimed at strengthening the fight against tax crimes and the financing of terrorism. with the adoption of the fourth anti-money laundering directive, the european union is adopting transparency standards that are stricter than those in force at international level and is therefore at the forefront of prosecuting tax crimes. the text approved by parliament today improves the commission's proposal on one point in particular: for the first time, member states will be required to keep central registers containing information on the beneficial owners of companies and other legal entities, as well as trusts. in addition, the central registers will be accessible to authorities, so-called 'obliged entities' (such as banks carrying out their duty to properly audit customers) and, under certain conditions, to persons who demonstrate a 'legitimate interest' (such as investigative journalists or ngos) in relation to money laundering, terrorist financing and offences that could help to finance them, such as corruption, tax evasion and fraud.
oral explanations of vote
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ although it is partly shared, there are still some unclear passages in this text. i therefore abstained.
in writing. - i abstained. the text has not brought the changes hoped for and there is still too much 'heavy' traceability on money transfers.
in writing. ‒ i support the recommendation for the second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the information to be provided when funds are transferred and repealing regulation (ec) no 1781/2006. the recommendation endorses the council's position at first reading, which stressed that illicit money flows resulting from transfers of funds and efforts by criminals to conceal the origin of their proceeds of criminal activities can undermine the integrity, stability and reputation of the financial sector and pose a threat to the union's internal market as well as to international development. the measures concerning the information accompanying transfers of funds are therefore to be considered as fundamental: without certain coordination measures at union level, money launderers and terrorist financiers would take advantage of the free movement of capital within the union's integrated financial area to support their criminal activities.
in writing. ‒ the anti-money laundering package presented by the commission in 2013 contains two legislative proposals which aim to update the european union's legal framework on money laundering and terrorist financing. today we voted on the european parliament's recommendation on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the information accompanying transfers of funds and repealing regulation (ec) no 1781/2006. the m5s delegation decided to abstain in order to be consistent with the vote on the anti-money laundering directive and to underline its concerns about the exemptions for certain payment instruments and entities, the derogations provided for and the wide discretion left to member states as regards sanctions.
in writing. ‒ the proposal under consideration concerns the revision of regulation (ec) no 1781/2006 on the information data relating to the payer accompanying transfers of funds in order to improve the traceability of payments and ensure that the eu regulatory framework remains in line with international standards. the funds transfer regulation lays down rules requiring payment service providers to communicate information about the payer throughout the payment chain in order to prevent, investigate and detect money laundering and terrorist financing. the proposed amendments aim to address some of the gaps in transparency by imposing certain requirements such as information on the beneficiary, extending credit scope to cards, telephones and it devices, verifying the identity of the beneficiary, strengthening the sanctioning powers of the competent authorities and the publication of sanctions. in the light of these considerations, i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that illicit money flows created by money transfers can undermine the stability and reputation of the financial sector and pose a threat to the internal market. the current regulation (ec) no 1781/2006, while ensuring that the eu regulatory framework continues to be in line with international standards, still has some legal gaps. therefore, in view of the changing threats posed by money laundering and the need to review the eu regulatory framework, i have decided to vote in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the regulation on the transfer of funds is part of the anti-money laundering package presented by the commission in 2013, was negotiated in parliament during the last legislature and approved in second reading by the council during the italian presidency. the purpose of the regulation is to prevent, investigate and detect money laundering and terrorist financing by improving the transparency and traceability of transfers of funds by authorities and law enforcement agencies. in particular, payment service providers are required to communicate data relating to the payer and the payee of a payment order. the text was adopted by a large majority in committee. we have decided to abstain, however, not only in order to be consistent with the vote on the anti-money laundering directive, to which the regulation is closely linked, but also to highlight our concerns about exemptions for certain payment instruments and persons, derogations and the wide discretion left to member states also as regards sanctions.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain because the text did not bring the changes we would have liked after the first reading. changes to not have such unwarranted traceability on all money transfers.
in writing. ‒ in a spirit of complementarity with the vote on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing, i voted in favour of this accompanying recommendation, repealing the previous regulation (ec) no 1781/2006.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the transfer of funds regulation firstly because it enriches and complements a pre-existing and very important overall regulatory framework concerning eu instruments to combat money laundering. secondly, because i believe it is essential to strengthen the regulatory framework and the instruments to combat a phenomenon of global scope, in line with the international rules, which are very important but often not binding. the new legislation, which consists of a directive and a regulation, took two years to work on and was only agreed in december last year in the council, thanks to the efforts of the italian eu presidency, which considered it a priority for the six-month period. the regulation on the transfer of funds concerns payment service providers, and therefore banks, and in this case the information data relating to the person ordering the transfer. it introduces the obligation for financial institutions to include accurate information on both the originator and the recipient of the transfer, and thus the obligation to follow the latter throughout the payment chain. the complex and hard work of the ep, and in particular of the two rapporteurs, has made it possible to achieve a more ambitious final result.
in writing. the proposal put forward by mrs cora van nieuwenhuizen on the regulation on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts deserves our attention. this is a very important measure, which aims to solve those serious cases of manipulation of reference values for the determination of interest rates, such as libor and euribor, and of reference values for currencies, which in recent years have caused considerable losses to consumers and investors and destroyed the confidence of citizens in the financial sector. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal with conviction, as part of the many efforts europe is making to restore confidence and rules to the economy.
in writing. voting in favour of the report by mr kirkhope and mr simon on the information accompanying transfers of funds was to support a proposal to improve the traceability of payments and to prevent and detect money laundering and terrorist financing, especially in certain areas where there are serious doubts about the transparency and traceability of financial funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text on the information accompanying transfers of funds, as after long negotiations with the council it has finally been concluded. the text adopted at second reading is likely to improve the traceability of payments and to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism through the transfer of funds. the proposed amendments relate to areas where european legislation is not yet able to take precise action.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the resolution on the information accompanying transfers of funds, which aligns eu rules with international standards set in 2013, in particular the financial action task force recommendation. the text is at second reading and follows an agreement reached in the trilogue under the italian presidency. we are particularly pleased that, with the exception of transfers of less than eur 1 000, it will be compulsory to provide the details of monetary transfers to foreign countries. we also welcome the strengthening of the chapter on sanctions and monitoring, and the fact that the rules on the protection and publication of sensitive data have been brought into line with existing eu regulations.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the council's position at first reading and the opinions of the economic and social committee and of the european central bank, having regard to the joint deliberations of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and to their joint recommendation, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ also in the case of the information accompanying transfers of funds, there were joint meetings of the two committees responsible, the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which voted in a quasi-plebiscite for parliament to approve the council's position at first reading. that is what happened, and i am glad of it.
in writing. ‒ i support the text for second reading. this recommendation is also the result of the work of the libe and econ committees and aims to identify money laundering and the financing of terrorism through the transfer of funds. the approach of the committees is clear: one way to fight terrorists with the same weapons is to control them economically. for this action to be effective, it is necessary that each member state imposes requirements on its territory in terms of transfer of money, such as the request for information from the beneficiary and the strengthening of the sanctioning powers for the competent authorities.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the approval of the anti-money laundering package, i also voted in favour of the regulation on transfers of funds, which aims to increase the traceability of payers and beneficiaries and their assets. the agreement reached between the council and parliament allows the existing regulation on information accompanying transfers of funds to be modernised and revised, with a view to improving the traceability of payments and bringing the eu legal framework into line with international standards, such as the recommendations of the financial action task force (fatf).
oral explanations of vote
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ zwiefka's report on insolvency proceedings is shared and balanced: it is a subject of great importance, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. i believe that the proposed update of the legislation will ensure improvements, especially in cases of financial difficulties in the management of transnational insolvency proceedings, and for these reasons i supported the text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the zwiefka report deals with a very important issue, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, namely insolvency proceedings. the legislative proposal is designed to amend regulation (ec) no 1346/2000. the process was very long, partly because it was not easy to reach agreement in the council. the text was adopted by a very large majority in parliament on first reading (589 in favour, 69 against). the updating of the insolvency legislation should bring some improvements to the business world, especially in cases of financial difficulties in transnational insolvency proceedings. the text also contains rules against phenomena such as forum shopping, thanks to more precise definitions of the concept of 'centre of main interest' of a company and that of 'establishment'. national insolvency registers should cooperate better with each other in the exchange of information, also thanks to the european e-justice portal. i am in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i support this resolution in order to make the crossborder insolvency procedure more efficient and effective, with benefits for debtors and creditors, facilitating the survival of companies and giving a second chance to entrepreneurs. each year insolvency proceedings affect some 200 000 businesses across the eu, putting 1.7 million jobs at risk. a quarter of these insolvency proceedings have a cross-border dimension. the new legislation, through creditor protection and business survival, will help to preserve jobs in this particularly difficult period.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr tadeusz zwiefka because the text aims to improve the efficiency of the european framework for the resolution of crossborder insolvency cases. the european commission figures show that the procedure affects some 200 000 companies in the union every year, or almost 600 companies a day, putting 1.7 million jobs at risk. a quarter of these insolvency proceedings have a cross-border dimension. in the light of the foregoing, i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 1346/2000 established a european framework for crossborder insolvency proceedings, which applies to cases where the debtor, whether a natural or legal person, has assets or creditors in more than one member state and determines the competent court for the opening of insolvency proceedings: the main proceedings must be brought in the member state where the debtor has its centre of main interests and have effects recognised throughout the european union; the secondary proceedings may be instituted in the place where the debtor has a dependency, and have effect only in respect of assets situated in that state. the regulation, which entered into force in 2002, needs to be updated. the general objective of the amendment of the regulation is to improve the efficiency of the european insolvency framework, so as to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market and its resilience in times of economic crisis. in the light of these considerations, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ as is well known, the common framework for insolvency proceedings aims to avoid the transfer of assets or legal proceedings from one member state to another, in order to benefit from more favourable conditions and to the detriment of creditors. however, the current regulation does not harmonise insolvency laws but only regulates the conflicts of laws in the different member states. on the basis of these considerations, i have decided to vote in favour of this proposal. i believe that this proposal for a regulation, which aims to make transnational insolvency proceedings more effective and efficient, is more in line with the legislative developments in the member states and will help to improve the efficient functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation because it sets out more efficient and effective rules on crossborder insolvency proceedings, which will help to achieve one of the current priorities of the european union: stimulate economic growth. these rules will help businesses to survive and give insolvent entrepreneurs a second chance.
in writing. - i support this recommendation. it deals with insolvency proceedings, a very important and sensitive subject, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. the legislative proposal amends regulation (ec) no 1346/2000 in a positive way and we support it.
in writing. ‒ today's vote marks the beginning of a new phase for thousands of businesses. the new regulation on crossborder insolvency procedures puts an end to the traditional hostile outlook of winding-up, providing greater guarantees and protections for creditors and a second chance for firms and entrepreneurs in difficulty. other measures include the introduction of practical solutions to the so-called forum shopping, making it more difficult to circumvent the sacrosanct rights of creditors, and the introduction of electronic bankruptcy registers capable of providing timely and relevant information to creditors and courts, also in order to avoid parallel insolvency proceedings. for these reasons i voted in favour of this measure, hoping that a new phase will really begin in which the institutions will stand by firms and entrepreneurs in difficulty, not to punish and liquidate them but to help and restructure them.
in writing. i congratulate mr zwiefka on reaching agreement with the council on a measure long awaited by consumers and businesses in europe. i shall vote in favour of the following: the european insolvency system was in fact in a state of uncertainty, especially in crossborder situations, and the commission was right, more than two years ago, to propose a comprehensive reform of the sector. i would like to stress one important aspect introduced after the council and parliament readings, namely the safeguards against the so-called forum shopping phenomenon. in too many known cases, companies and debtors suddenly moved their headquarters before the opening of insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings: the regulation now introduces a legal framework of enhanced safeguards as well as the ability for courts to assess whether the move is genuine or not. the agreement we are about to ratify is a step forward in protecting the european economy. i hope that this will be an important sign of the new policy direction of growth and attention to citizens, consumers and businesses launched by the new commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recast of regulation (ec) no 1346/2000 on crossborder insolvency proceedings, firstly because insolvency proceedings in europe affect more than 200 000 companies each year, a quarter of which are crossborder. the new legislation took about three years to work on and the italian eu presidency was particularly committed to the final success of the negotiations, having succeeded in finding the right political synthesis between the council and the european parliament. the aim is to provide a second chance for entrepreneurs, covering not only bankruptcy proceedings but also hybrid and pre-insolvency proceedings, as well as the remission and restructuring of the debts of natural persons (consumers and self-employed professionals), and to set up an electronic register useful both for creditors to identify assets and obtain information and to avoid parallel proceedings. the register will be available on the e-justice portal. in order to prevent abusive practices, the concept of a centre of main interests (comi) has been clarified, which is important for cross-border groups of companies, particularly those with a specific discipline. the rules on group insolvency are supplemented by rules allowing for the coordination of proceedings in the field of groups of companies.
in writing. after several technical meetings and trilogues, we reached an agreement on second reading. the subject is of great current interest and concerns the failure of companies and insolvency. the report proposes, among other things, a more ambitious solution to the insolvency of groups of companies by proposing a compromise for a more flexible approach. for these reasons, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on insolvency proceedings. the proper functioning of the internal market requires procedures that are efficient and effective, and to achieve this the provisions on jurisdiction, recognition and applicable law in this area should be part of a union measure which is binding and directly applicable in the member states.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this purely technical report, while acknowledging with satisfaction some of the political data. first, the scope of insolvency proceedings has been extended to include hybrid proceedings and corporate restructuring. we also think it is important to stress that the current regulation introduces the possibility for business groups to act in a coordinated way between the various companies, reducing costs and time for both the private and public sectors. we also acknowledge the efforts of the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs to include a recital introducing a clause for the future which protects the interests and preferences of employees in cases of company insolvency.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the council's position at first reading and the opinion of the european economic and social committee, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i support the following text on insolvency proceedings for second reading. as early as december 2012, the commission proposed a revision of the rules on cross-border insolvency, which vary widely from one member state to another, in order to make cross-border insolvency proceedings more effective and to improve the current rules, which instead merely settle conflicts between member states without unifying or harmonising insolvency laws.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the reform of the rules on crossborder insolvency, which extends the scope of the insolvency procedure regulation and clarifies the legal concept of the centre of main interests (comi). these measures will serve to prevent abusive and opportunistic legal practices such as recourse to the courts and legislation of a milder country rather than to the one with greater jurisdiction to adjudicate the dispute. the new rules also specify the relationship between main and secondary proceedings and require all states to set up public insolvency registers containing information on the course of insolvency proceedings and on the insolvent creditor and debtor.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the revision of the regulation introducing new rules on insolvency proceedings at eu level and extending its scope. the aim of the revision is to make crossborder insolvency proceedings more efficient and effective, to the benefit of debtors and creditors, to facilitate the survival of businesses and to give entrepreneurs a second chance. the new provisions will also ensure that the current insolvency regulation is consistent with the evolution of national insolvency legislation introduced after its entry into force in 2002. the data provided by the european commission show that in the european union these procedures affect some 200 000 enterprises each year; that means 1.7 million jobs are at stake. since about a quarter of these insolvency proceedings have a cross-border element, it is clear that legislative action at european level is needed to improve the procedural framework in these cases.
oral explanations of vote
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a conflict minerals regulation was sent directly to the trilogue because a decisive majority was reached on some key amendments proposed by the five star movement and other groups. amendments essential to the proposal's effectiveness. the rapporteur's proposal was flawed, useless, ineffective and harmful to jobs in europe, as well as harmful to smes. it was a proposal born of that compromise downwards which destroys instead of creating, it was a proposal written by the commission for the use and consumption of the multinationals and for the benefit of the merchants of death. i have a message for the commission: you lost the battle! now parliament will have to express a new position with the council and the rapporteur will have to understand that he does not have a majority for his proposal.
in writing. ‒ in the democratic republic of congo, zimbabwe, the central african republic, colombia, burma and other countries, minerals are mined under the control of warlords who exploit local populations and enslave them to finance their trade. over the past 40 years, 60 percent of the conflicts in so-called "developing" countries have been connected with the trade in natural resources, which has enabled the financing of armed groups guilty of violence against the local population. in the democratic republic of congo alone, conflicts over mineral trade have caused 3.5 million deaths, over half a million rapes and an unspecified number of other types of violence since 1995. more deaths, more violence, more rapes will follow if we don't do something. we europeans account for 35% of world trade and are major importers of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold: so we have a responsibility not to look the other way. we can and must vote in favour of a binding regulation requiring public traceability of minerals imported into europe from the place of purchase: the fate of millions of men, women, children depends on our decisions. let's all vote for it together.
in writing. - i abstained. while we understand the reasons behind the measure, it is not with regulations such as these that we can hope to eradicate violence, illicit trafficking or the financing of terrorist groups in conflict areas such as, for example, that of the congo. there is no doubt that any restrictions or certification of a mandatory nature for european companies will not stop chinese companies, which will only further penetrate the african mineral resources market.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report to ask that importers of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold for the production of consumer goods be required to receive eu certification in order to ensure that they do not fuel conflict and human rights violations in war zones. i also voted in favour of an amendment to the european commission's proposal to introduce mandatory traceability for the 800 000 eu companies using tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold, which are present in many consumer products in europe, in particular in the automotive, electronics, aerospace, packaging, construction, lighting, industrial machinery and jewellery sectors. finally, as metal smelters and gold refineries represent the last stage where the origin of minerals can be effectively traced, it is necessary that they be subject to a mandatory audit, carried out by independent third parties, to check whether they apply the rules of 'duty of care' designed to help companies in the sector not to fuel conflict and human rights violations in war zones.
in writing. ‒ we managed to vote in plenary on an important amendment which aims to make it compulsory for all those involved in the processing chain of precious metals and minerals to ensure that they are not affected by human rights violations that often occur in the relevant supply chain. given the importance of the amendment, it was decided to refer the text back to the trilogue, but i am glad to have contributed to the position taken by parliament in defence of human rights.
in writing. ‒ the need to break the link between trade in certain minerals and the financing of armed conflicts is linked to the need to preserve and develop a responsible european market. in this context, i believe it is important to set up a system of self-certification for importers, so that due diligence obligations can be fully respected. at the same time, i believe that the impact of the burden of transparency and self-certification should not be underestimated, as it would risk driving operators out of conflict areas and undermining the objectives of socioeconomic development. i therefore voted in favour of this report, in the hope that a broad political consensus would be reached.
in writing. ‒ on 5 march 2014, the commission presented a legislative proposal to make it more difficult for armed groups in conflict and high-risk areas to finance their activities through mining and trading of minerals. central to this approach is making it easier for companies to source tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold responsibly and encouraging the use of legitimate commercial channels. i could only vote in favour of this report, because we must hold those who are involved in one way or another in the use of conflict minerals to account. to this end, all those involved in the processing and marketing of these products should ensure the traceability of these minerals (tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold). by voting in favour, i intend to contribute to the responsibility of not only all those involved in importing but also all the natural or legal persons involved in consumption and sale. the compulsory introduction of such transparency and certification measures throughout the production chain is essential to our fight to protect social and environmental rights and duties.
in writing. ‒ in conflict-torn areas of the world, the exploitation and trade of natural resources allows armed groups, often guilty of human rights violations against populations, to finance themselves. to remain helpless or to pretend not to see is a crime which europe cannot allow or tolerate. how intolerable a small and limited initiative, almost a witness, in the face of a huge problem with multiple implications. that is why, in accepting the invitation that has been sent to us from different quarters, we as socialists and democrats have strongly supported the need to widen the scope of the legislation by introducing a mandatory regulation applicable to companies at all levels of the supply chain of minerals and metals. this is not a victory for us: such a dramatic argument can't have winners or losers. but we are glad that our obstinacy has opened the eyes of many and, by overturning the vote of the committee, has allowed the introduction of a criterion which we believe can reduce the capacity of the warlords to support and finance those who have for years, scientifically, bled large regions of the world, to make them unstable and to be able to build their criminal empires more easily.
in writing. ‒ i voted overwhelmingly in favour of the proposal for a regulation establishing a european system of self-certification of the exercise of supply chain due diligence for responsible importers of tin, tungsten, tantalum, their ores and gold originating in conflict and high-risk areas. today's vote has in fact achieved the great objective of significantly increasing the traceability of these minerals and metals. but we must continue to fight for parliament to approve an ambitious and effective proposal which will help to break the unacceptable link between the extraction and trade of these resources and the financing of armed groups, and which will take account of the effective capacity of the various operators to monitor and assess the possible risks along their supply chain, avoiding excessive bureaucratic burdens, particularly for smes and micro-enterprises. i also believe that we will only achieve significant results from this proposal for a regulation if we can place it in the larger context of a coherent european cooperation policy.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation aims to establish a european system of self-certification of the exercise of due diligence by european importers of tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold. i voted in favour of this proposal because it aims to help break the link between the extraction and trade of minerals from conflict-affected or high-risk areas and the financing of armed groups controlling the extraction areas.
in writing. ‒ conflict minerals are minerals extracted from conflict zones and whose trade subsidizes armed groups, murder and abominations of all kinds. four elements are considered: gold, tungsten, tantalum and tin, all of which are essential to the manufacture of technological products. the report sets out the conditions for being certified as a 'responsible importer' of the minerals and metals concerned. it is based on a due diligence regime that allows eu importers to apply the principles and measures defined by the oecd and thus to counter the risk of financing of armed groups and security forces and to reduce any other adverse effects, including any serious infringements associated with the extraction, transport or trade of the minerals concerned. m5s believes that there is a balance point to not burden smes, already suffering from the economic crisis, and at the same time protect human rights. the majority of the votes in the plenary were taken on the m5s's proposal for mandatory voting in both upstream and downstream sectors, and this led me to vote in favour of the commission's entire proposal as amended in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ conscience and responsibility prevailed in this vote, over and above political affiliation. a conscience and a responsibility that were stronger than external pressures and interests at stake. the house has chosen to go beyond indifference by calling for mandatory certification for european importers of tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold from conflict and high-risk areas. this is a strong demand, which has achieved the ambitious goal of making the entire production chain subject to this obligation. a great step forward has been made, with europe taking full responsibility for 'conflict minerals'. we can no longer tolerate our tablets, cell phones and computers being stained with the blood of thousands of innocent people. we can no longer tolerate indifference. we are asking for this from the european citizens, who have the right to buy responsible minerals.
in writing. i voted against the final text of mr winkler's proposal on self-certification for importers of certain minerals and metals from conflict-affected and high-risk areas, mainly because some of the fundamental prerogatives i advocated were not approved. while recognising that a system of self-certification by companies is of fundamental importance for the ethical functioning of the entire production chain, we must also recognise the negative impact of mandatory self-certification, with costs and bureaucratic burdens that will be likely to seriously damage the sector, since human rights and prerogatives can be effectively protected in another way, less incisive than the one approved later.
in writing. ‒ the regulation establishing a european system of self-certification for importers of certain minerals and metals from conflict zones aims at a balance between a system of self-certification and mandatory indication of the quantities of minerals imported. it is necessary to establish precise rules for responsible trade in the four materials listed by the oecd (tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold), without damaging the european business fabric that revolves around trade in these materials but above all by ensuring that the proceeds do not go to fuelling conflicts.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament had a major responsibility on the subject of so-called 'conflict minerals': the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. this, unfortunately, has only been done in part. the text resulting from the adoption of the amendments is contradictory in some respects. the commission is therefore pleased that the report has been referred back to the trilogue process to find solutions aimed at genuine respect for human rights. parliament's representatives will seek to secure mandatory procedures with clear mechanisms for certification and traceability of the mineral supply chain, particularly with regard to those importing raw materials into europe. at the same time, these procedures should limit the impact on small and micro-enterprises, avoiding burdensome bureaucratic burdens that do not resolve human rights violations. all this in the context of a cooperation and development policy which, i repeat, is genuinely concerned with the protection of human rights and the economic growth of third countries, which effectively counteracts the profiteering positions of armed groups which violate these rights and which is a source of pride for this parliament and for europe.
in writing. ‒ europe must have the courage of those who know they are moving in the right direction: we cannot afford to pass a regulation that serves only to appease our consciences. we must adopt a regulation which will really help to eliminate the problem: the s&d group is therefore fighting for not only mandatory legislation but also for the extension of mandatory legislation to the whole production chain. our group has worked for a long time to ensure that there is a balance between the need to combat this phenomenon and the need not to burden small businesses with obligations that are beyond their means. we have moved beyond this point in a number of ways, from exempting micro-enterprises (with fewer than 9 employees) to introducing a high degree of flexibility, whereby the obligations on operators vary according to their size and position in the production chain. we've always said we want to set standards in the world. we have always said that the european union is not just about managing the economy, but is based on powerful values and ideals such as peace, concern for others and solidarity. this proposal is a very important test case to show that these are not just words, that europe really wants to lead in the field of human rights protection.
in writing. ‒ whereas the commission is proposing a proposal for a regulation establishing a european system of self-certification for importers of tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold who choose to import responsibly into the union; that the self-certification requires union importers of these metals and minerals to exercise due diligence, i.e. to avoid causing damage to the territory; i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the european commission had decided to adopt a voluntary system in its proposal. the ppe, in a clear desire to protect those who work in the supply chain, had asked, and i agree, that the obligation to indicate the quantities of minerals imported from conflict zones be imposed only for those importers who are upstream of the supply chain (refineries and smelters), while maintaining an optional system for all the others. i share the theory that if there were transparency and self-certification obligations for everyone, there would be too heavy a burden on the importers themselves, with the consequence of inducing operators to leave those areas for others where the obligation is not provided for, not achieving the development objective that is sought in these territories. in addition, the creation of the label "responsible enterprises" requires the european commission to create a list of enterprises responsible for self-certification of the origin of minerals. the subject under consideration is certainly complex and involves many different aspects, from foreign policy to respect for human rights, from the promotion of democracy to development cooperation. since the pursuit of general objectives with the need to protect the production system has been distorted by certain amendments, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ following the amendments, i abstained because i believe that the aim of this report, which establishes a european system of self-certification of the exercise of due diligence in the supply chain for importers responsible for tin, tungsten, tantalum, their minerals and gold, originating in conflict and high-risk areas, is fully acceptable, but i do not believe that the text makes a decisive contribution to combating this problem.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the text amending the european commission's proposal to introduce a mandatory traceability system for eu importers using tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold in the manufacture of consumer products such as smartphones, tablets and computers. under the scheme strongly advocated by the socialist and democratic group and despite opposition from the conservative bloc, the 800 000 eu businesses that use these 4 minerals to produce everyday goods should be obliged to receive eu certification to ensure that they do not fuel bloody conflicts and human rights violations in war zones, such as those that have plagued the congo and the great lakes region for many years. the obligation of transparency covers the entire supply chain of enterprises importing minerals and metals from armed conflict zones, from the origin site to the final product, including metal smelters and gold refineries, which are the last stage where the origin of the minerals can be effectively traced. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions.
in writing. ‒ this report is very important because it deals with the establishment at eu level of responsible sourcing practices by companies of minerals and metals from conflict and risk zones, so as to reduce the financing of armed groups in these zones and any serious violations associated with the extraction, transport or trade of these minerals, and therefore their environmental consequences. the amendments tabled were voted on in the chamber, but not the report as a whole, since it was decided to proceed directly to negotiations with the council on the basis of the amendments alone. the negotiations will, however, be opened with an important amendment which we strongly supported and which also establishes the obligation for downstream companies to take all measures to identify and deal with risks in the supply of minerals and metals; in addition, the obligation to provide information on their responsible sourcing due diligence practices is established. the compulsory introduction of such transparency and certification measures throughout the production chain is essential to our fight to protect social and environmental rights and duties.
in writing. i supported the proposal because the text contained clear and defined guidance on mandatory traceability and compliance with oecd rules throughout the supply chain, from extraction to distribution. it is important to tackle all revenues from mineral exploitation in conflict and high-risk areas, and to pursue responsible practices in the sourcing of materials such as tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold. importers must recognise their key role and take a responsible approach to minerals and metals by relying on clean supply chains. finally, it should be stressed that the approved system will not be a burden on small and medium-sized enterprises and that the opposition to a mandatory traceability system comes mainly from multinationals.
in writing. ‒ today's vote was a great victory for the progressives and the s&d group in particular. a secure, transparent and fully legal mineral supply chain is a necessary condition for ensuring full respect for human rights and sustainable development for rare metal producing countries.
in writing. ‒ today's vote has achieved an extraordinary result: to exclude conflict minerals from european markets throughout the supply chain. i voted in favour of mandatory traceability of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold to sever the links between trade, the extraction of these minerals and the financing of armed conflict. we all know that negotiations with the council and the commission will be difficult, but the fact that parliament has spoken in favour of a mandatory traceability mechanism is a historic victory for the socialist group and an ethical shift in the european union's trade policy.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, by introducing the principle of traceability of metals from conflict zones, thanks to the decisive commitment of the socialists and democrats, wanted to signal that there can be no real development without respect for the dignity and life of people. europe is often identified only as a source of obligations, rules and sanctions; the vote today has shown that we can and must continue to hope for a common future which values the value of life over mere profit. the council and the commission, which must now reformulate a legislative proposal, take account of parliament's wishes.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution opposing a commission delegated directive amending the current legislation on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. the directive does not meet the conditions for granting the derogations it seeks to introduce, nor have the technical deadlines for the submission of exemption applications been met.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that further assessment is needed on the exemption for cadmium in general lighting and display lighting applications and that therefore the commission should come forward with a new proposal in this regard.
in writing. - i vote for it. the objection is to a commission delegated directive amending, to adapt to technical progress, annex iii to the rohs directive (restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment). the commission delegated directive: (a) 'cadmium in led ii-vi with colour conversion (< 10 μg cd per mm2 of light emitting surface) for use in solid state lighting or display systems'; (b) introduces a new and more specific exemption 39 (b) 'cadmium in cadmium-based downshift quantum dots (semiconductor nanocrystals) for use in display system lighting applications (< 0,2 μg cd per mm2 of display screen surface area) ', expiring on 30 june 2018. the delegated directive does not meet the conditions for granting an exemption set out in article 5 (1) (a) of the rohs directive for both exemptions. in particular, the reasoning given for the exemption 39 (b) is based on an outdated situation as regards the feasibility of substituting cadmium in quantum dots. in addition, the application for renewal of the exemption was received by the commission 5 months later than the deadlines set by the rohs directive. nevertheless, the commission accepted it.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution on cadmium in general lighting and display lighting applications. the resolution raised objections to the commission delegated directive of 30 january 2015 amending, for the purposes of adapting to technical progress, annex iii to directive 2011/65/eu of the european parliament and of the council as regards the exemption for cadmium in general lighting and display lighting applications. i think that, given that cadmium is a highly dangerous toxic substance, extending an existing derogation while granting a new derogation for this substance should be avoided in order to protect the environment and public health. furthermore, the derogation could also send the wrong signal to industry, discouraging it from investing in innovation and research to find alternatives to cadmium. finally, the derogation could lead to market distortions due to imports of cadmium-containing electrical and electronic equipment from third countries to the detriment of innovative and environmentally sensitive companies operating in europe. for all these reasons i have decided to vote in favour of parliament's objection.
in writing. - cadmium is a carcinogenic chemical element. the so-called rohs (restriction of hazardous substances) directive severely restricts its use in electrical and electronic equipment placed on the market in the european union. the exemption for its use in general lighting applications and display system lighting (e.g. leds) expired on 1 july 2014. the european commission would like to renew this exemption and our m5s delegation, together with a very large majority in the european parliament, opposed this choice in order to protect the health of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ on 30 january 2015, the commission delegated directive amended annex iii to directive 2001/65/eu on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (rohs directive), annex ii of which limits, inter alia, the use of cadmium in such equipment. in point 39, annex iii provided for a derogation for cadmium in leds expiring on 1 july 2014. the commission, after receiving a request to extend that exemption until 30 june 2017, approved the delegated directive. however, it was found that: (1) the commission's statement that the led products (with or without cadmium) referred to in recital 39 do not exist and that consequently an impact assessment could not be carried out is erroneous and (2) the request for exemption was received after the deadline and was considered excessive by the experts appointed by the commission. the european commission is therefore invited to take into account the position and objections raised by the ep and to carry out a reassessment with a view to submitting a new delegated act. in the light of these considerations, i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution objecting to the commission delegated directive of 30 january 2015 amending annex iii to directive 2011/65/eu of the european parliament and of the council as regards the exemption for cadmium in general lighting and display lighting applications. in fact, as recent technological developments have led to the introduction of new equipment on the union market, in particular a new complete line of television models based on cadmium-free quantum dots, i share the concerns regarding the extension of the exemption from the prohibition on the use of cadmium. in addition, according to the information available and the expertise of some independent consultants, given two televisions of the same size, the one equipped with a display system with cadmium-free quantum dots appears to show a lower energy consumption than the model with cadmium-containing quantum dots, and colour rendering tests, compared to the relevant standard, have shown that display systems based on cadmium-free quantum dots allow for equivalent if not better results. i therefore join the call in the text of the resolution that we should proceed swiftly with a reassessment of the existing exemption with a view to its abolition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it calls on the commission to review its delegated act which provides in point 39 of annex iii for the extension of the exemption until 2017 for cadmium in leds and one until 2018 for cadmium in quantum dots. the commission delegated act is not justified as the market is fully ready to produce general lighting applications and display systems without any presence of cadmium, which is hazardous to human health. the same independent consultants who assessed the application on behalf of the commission came to the same conclusion and openly recommended not to grant the extension. i voted against recital f and paragraph 5 because one of the exemption applications submitted by lighting appliance manufacturers was submitted after the deadline and despite this infringement of the regulation was still accepted by the commission.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the resolution, bearing in mind the objection to the commission's delegated directive amending, in order to adapt it to technical progress, annex iii to the rohs directive (restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment).
in writing. in view of the rapid technological advancement of the market and the new assessment required of new products and findings based on cadmium-free quantum dot technology and considering the request for exemption 39b as obsolete, i welcome the motion for a resolution on the commission directive amending annex iii to directive 2011/65/eu on the exemption of cadmium in lighting applications for display systems.
in writing. taking into account that the rohs directive limits, among other things, the use of cadmium in electrical and electronic equipment (restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment), it can be seen that the market has undergone important developments since then, especially in terms of available techniques. in fact, it can be expected that the properties of cadmium-free quantum dots in terms of energy saving are similar to those of cadmium-containing quantum dots. in view of this, and with a view to protecting the right to health, i have expressed my favourable opinion.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the delegated directive on the exemption for cadmium in general lighting and display lighting applications. in view of the important developments in the market, regulation allows for useful and systematically managed technology development. this document initiates a new assessment which does not result in market distortions, as the current exemption remains in force until its withdrawal plus a subsequent grace period.
in writing. ‒ we support the resolution on the exemption of cadmium from the lighting applications of display systems as we consider that the commission delegated directive of 30 january 2015 does not comply with the conditions for the exemption of cadmium contained in article 5 (1) (a) of the directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. we therefore support the request to the commission to submit a new version of the delegated act which takes account of the position of the rapporteur and of parliament as a whole.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the commission delegated directive of 30 january 2015 amending, for the purposes of adapting to technical progress, annex iii to directive 2011/65/eu of the european parliament and of the council as regards the exemption for cadmium in lighting and display applications,i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i shared the objections to the commission's delegated directive. a further assessment is necessary following developments in the commercial availability of products based on cadmium-free quantum dot technology. i am in favour of the resolution: as it stands, the delegated directive cannot enter into force. even if the directive does not enter into force, and it is important to stress this, there will be no market distortion, as the current exemption remains in force until it is revoked plus a subsequent grace period.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission delegated directive amending annex iii to directive 2011/65/eu. although cadmium was classified as a hazardous substance to be banned in electrical and electronic equipment placed on the market, as laid down in directive 2011/65/eu, this material was exempted as provided for in annex iii to that directive. the exemption of cadmium, which is argued here, is due to the fact that this material is the basis of quantum dots, a state-of-the-art technology that offers considerable advantages in terms of energy efficiency and colour rendering. the vote in favour of the delegated directive therefore allows us not to hinder scientific progress in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it calls on the commission to review its delegated act which provides in point 39 of annex iii for the extension of the exemption until 2017 for cadmium in leds and one until 2018 for cadmium in quantum dots. the commission's delegated act is not justified at all as, contrary to the commission's findings, the market is fully ready to produce general lighting applications and display systems without any presence of cadmium, which is hazardous to human health. the same independent consultants who assessed the application on behalf of the commission came to the same conclusion and openly recommended not to grant the extension. i voted against recital f and paragraph 5 because one of the exemption applications submitted by lighting appliance manufacturers was submitted after the deadline and despite this infringement of the regulation was still accepted by the commission.
written declarations of vote
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. i believe that the monitoring of data on ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin ensures transparency and knowledge of the evolution of the market, which must in any case cope with competition from imports from third countries. i believe it is imperative to keep all the systems in place which enable us to control and combat dumping and to support the productive realities of our territories.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i do not think that the measures proposed by the european commission for the monitoring of data on ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin are satisfactory and i therefore hope that the commission will put forward another proposal which takes due account of parliament's position.
in writing. - i vote for it. according to the commission delegated act, the requirement of import licences no longer appears justified for the management of agricultural markets; comagri considers, on the contrary, that the monitoring of data on ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin (which is derived from the system of certificates) ensures both transparency and knowledge of the evolution of the market, which is still unstable and faces strong competition, in particular due to imports from third countries. it is also useful for international agreements and to combat dumping.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the european parliament resolution on the commission delegated regulation of 20 february 2015 amending regulation (ec) no 376/2008 as regards the obligation to present a licence for imports of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin and repealing regulation (ec) no 2336/2003 laying down detailed rules for the application of council regulation (ec) no 670/2003 laying down specific market measures for ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin. the commission delegated act provided for the elimination of the obligation for the union to draw up and publish an eu budget for ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin and the quarterly obligation for member states to provide information on production, disposal and stocks. it also provided for the abolition of the requirement to present an import licence for the import of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin into the union. given that the monitoring of data on ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin ensures both transparency and knowledge of the evolution of the market, which is still unstable and faces strong competition, in particular from imports from third countries, i voted in favour of objecting to the commission's delegated regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text because i believe that the monitoring of data on ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin ensures the transparency of data on market developments. unfortunately, our market is faced with strong competition, particularly from imports from third countries. these data collected are key elements in the international negotiations and anti-dumping investigations.
in writing. ‒ the monitoring of data on ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin ensures both transparency and knowledge of the evolution of the market, which is still unstable and faces strong competition, in particular from imports from third countries. in addition, this information is also extremely useful in the context of negotiations for international agreements and anti-dumping investigations. however, eurostat does not provide such precise information, which means that operators, member states and eu institutions have no alternative to be fully informed of the market situation. parliament therefore objects to the delegated regulation and declares that it cannot enter into force. in the light of these considerations, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the european parliament on the commission delegated regulation of 20 february 2015 amending the existing framework on the obligation to present a licence for imports of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin. in the light of the changes that have taken place over the last decade on the market for ethyl alcohol, the commission, committed to the objectives of reducing bureaucratic burdens and administrative simplification, considered it appropriate to intervene by considering that the monitoring of the market for ethyl alcohol was no longer necessary and that regulation (ec) no 2336/2003 was therefore obsolete. whereas the collection of data on ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin is a guarantee of transparency and makes it possible to know and monitor the evolution of the market, which in this particular case is still unstable and subject to strong external competition; i have decided to join the objections raised by my colleagues in parliament to the commission's delegated regulation and to express my opposition to its entry into force.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the parliament's text which, contrary to the commission's view, maintains the monitoring of data on ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin, since it ensures both transparency and knowledge of market developments.
in writing. whereas the monitoring of data on ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin ensures both transparency and knowledge of the evolution of the market, which is still unstable and faces strong competition, in particular from imports from third countries; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the resolution on the commission delegated regulation of 20 february 2015 amending the regulation on the obligation to present a licence for imports of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin, which raises objections to the commission regulation. the european agricultural sector is an essential resource for our union and must be promoted and supported as much as possible. in the specific case of ethyl alcohol imports, it should be considered that the monitoring of data ensures transparency and knowledge of the evolution of the eu market, which is facing strong competition due to imports from third countries. the information is particularly useful in bilateral and multilateral trade negotiations and during anti-dumping investigations. until such time as eurostat has data on this matter, it will be important to keep a watch on the market by means of data on ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin, without which it would not be possible to be informed about the situation on the market itself.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for the work he has done and hope that i have made my contribution.
in writing. ‒ i agree that the delegated regulation should not enter into force because there are some points that need to be clarified. to date, the information provided by eurostat is not very accurate, and therefore operators in the member states have no alternative to be informed in detail about the market situation. the monitoring of data and information on ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin ensures both transparency and the correct knowledge of market developments, which is unstable and subject to competition due to imports from third countries. i hope the commission will do what is necessary in the short term.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the delegated regulation presented by the commission, as i believe that the legislation on ethanol of agricultural origin and its market needs to be updated. the delegated act will remove the obligation for the union to draw up and publish an eu budget for ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin and the quarterly obligation for member states to provide information on production, disposal and stocks; the act will also remove the requirement to present an import licence for ethanol of agricultural origin into the union. the proposed text is in line with the commission's political priority: determine whether the existing rules impose unnecessary bureaucratic and administrative burdens, are outdated or do not comply with its priorities.
oral explanations of vote
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you that this resolution must be linked to the fact that we decided in 1992 to introduce maternity leave at european level, so it is not appropriate to say that this decision should be left to the states alone, because it is a question of increasing welfare, particularly as regards the mother, the child, the father and the conditions of maternity and reconciliation. but we cannot stand still at the 14 weeks provided for in the 1992 directive which is still in force. we must also go further to ensure greater protection not only of the health of women and children, but also to allow a reconciliation, especially in times of great economic and employment crisis, when we see increasing poverty among women and children, difficulties in entering the labour market and remaining in it. and so we have to understand that giving these opportunities today means, among other things, also having higher productivity - for those who are concerned about costs - and this also makes it easier for many women to access the workforce. we must say today, as we said in the resolution, that the commission must take up a new initiative and above all we ask the next luxembourg presidency to take up a new legislative initiative, and the commission's mediation will be necessary. we cannot let go after two legislatures of the possibility of finally making a suitable directive.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ i believe that the principle of equal treatment between women and men implies the absence of any discrimination, whether for maternity or for paternity, and the need to have equal family responsibilities. for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls on the council to fulfil its obligations in relation to the maternity leave directive and urges the member states to resume the stalled negotiating phase.
in writing. ‒ even today, maternity leave is managed in very different ways in europe, and there are very different levels of protection. in the last parliamentary term, parliament called for the minimum leave in each eu country to be increased from 14 to 20 weeks with full pay. we know that the discussion on this extension has stalled in the council and that the commission will withdraw the proposal if the situation does not improve. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. a well-calibrated maternity leave can help to improve the gender balance in the labour market, without forgetting the clear demographic challenge facing europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the extension of maternity leave and the introduction of paternity leave are both necessary and fundamental measures to combat gender inequalities and to encourage people to have children and to create families. i believe that the union must also harmonize as many rules as possible, starting with those relating to the rights of individuals.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that this resolution by the committee on women's rights and gender equality has been adopted, which deplores the council's failure to act on the maternity leave directive and reaffirms the will of this parliament to end the deadlock and play an active role in the legislative process. it is important to continue this directive, on which our assembly adopted a position at first reading five years ago. we will continue to work on this subject so that women's right to maternity leave and reintegration into work is recognised and protected without any discrimination. we are therefore calling for the introduction of a minimum of 10 working days of paid paternity leave and for men, fathers, to be able to exercise their right to work and family. if this proposal for revision is withdrawn, our group will be promoting a legislative initiative to revise the current legislation in order to improve the health and safety of pregnant women, women who have recently given birth or women who are breastfeeding, thus addressing the demographic challenges and reducing the disparities between men and women.
in writing. - i voted yes. the principle of equal treatment for women and men implies the absence of any discrimination, including as regards maternity, paternity and having family responsibilities, but a quarter of the member states do not provide for paternity leave; if one considers that the birth rate is decreasing in the european union and that this trend is aggravated by the crisis, as unemployment, precariousness and uncertainty about the future and the economy are pushing couples, and in particular younger women, to postpone the decision to have children, the trend towards an ageing population in the union as a whole is further reinforced. sharing family and domestic responsibilities between men and women is an indispensable condition for the achievement of gender equality. the resolution deplores the deadlock in the council over the maternity leave directive and calls on the member states to relaunch the negotiations. the willingness to draw up a separate directive establishing paid paternity leave of at least 10 working days and encouraging measures, legislative and otherwise, enabling men, and fathers in particular, to exercise their right to achieve a work-life balance is reiterated.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution in question to ask the european commission not to withdraw the proposal for a directive on maternity leave and to urge the ministers to resume talks and agree on a formal position. what kind of europe are we living in if those who create life are punished? what kind of europe are we living in if childbirth is synonymous with poverty? we cannot help the mothers by simply cancelling the proposal for a directive. since 1992, when the maternity leave directive was adopted, we have not made any progress. women cannot wait, they deserve to be women, mothers and workers at the same time without being discriminated against. it is also appropriate to provide for paternity leave of at least 10 working days in addition to maternity leave.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution to break the deadlock in the directive on maternity leave. european legislation on this subject is fixed at 1992 and should be updated; many member states have already introduced higher levels of protection.
in writing. ‒ as the europe 2020 strategy underlines, smart, sustainable and inclusive growth cannot be pursued without focusing on achieving the right balance between work and family. on the other hand, it is a given that the increase in female employment is an important factor in gdp growth, and on the other hand the data show that the european countries where more children are being born today are also those where female employment rates are highest, confirming that it is perfectly possible to reconcile family and working life, provided that there are adequate protection mechanisms. the maternity leave directive, which pursues exactly this objective, was approved by parliament at first reading on 20 october 2010, and it is serious, and not in line with the principle of loyal cooperation under article 4 teu, that the council has not yet adopted a formal position. the question we have approved urges the council to take up its responsibilities and to adopt a formal position on the directive, with the aim of overcoming the deadlock and, if possible, opening negotiations with parliament. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the principle of equal treatment between women and men implies the absence of any direct or indirect discrimination, including as regards maternity, paternity and having family responsibilities. i am voting in favour because i believe that there are still too many differences between the member states and i firmly believe that both parents should be guaranteed the possibility of experiencing a fundamental moment in life, such as the birth of a child, in the most serene and participatory way possible.
in writing. ‒ maternity leave is an important guarantee for a proper balance between family life and career. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that maternity leave should be extended to at least 18 weeks, of which 6 must be taken after childbirth.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which seeks to unblock the maternity leave directive, which has been stalled in the council since it was approved by parliament in 2010. the main aim of the directive is to establish the duration of maternity leave (parliament proposes 20 weeks) and the amount of the allowance to be paid, which parliament proposes to be equal to 100% of earnings. considering the many disparities still existing between men and women, especially in the workplace even in normal situations - just think, for example, that women's pensions are on average 39% lower than those of their male colleagues - it is clear that, in the face of motherhood, women's natural duties risk limiting their rights as well. the harmonization of the rules on maternity leave is therefore a crucial step towards reducing gender-based discrimination. we therefore hope that the proposal for a directive (com (2008) 0637 final) can be unblocked before it risks being withdrawn by the commission in june under the refit programme.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of greater equality of treatment between women and men, which means the absence of any discrimination, including with regard to motherhood, fatherhood and having the same family responsibilities.
in writing. as already enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the union, the dignity of the person must be respected and protected and today, with the adoption of this important report, we are fighting for a future that offers more equitable and broader social horizons, that promotes family policies and protects the rights of individuals. unfortunately, the data do not always give us the best assurance as regards the objectives of the social and employment policies which europe is trying to achieve. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. all the necessary measures must be taken immediately to ensure that discrimination is finally overcome, by allowing equal access to the world of work for men and women, equal economic treatment and equal conditions, and last but not least, the possibility of reconciling private and professional life thanks to the guarantee of adequate maternity leave, which would also mean the push to expand families and have more children, ensuring mothers and families a future with less uncertainty.
in writing. ‒ today this house condemned the council's inaction on an important issue such as maternity leave. the commission must play its role as an impartial mediator between parliament and the council if we are to break the deadlock in the achievement of this common objective. the importance of the establishment of a separate directive allowing men to guarantee their right to fatherhood with paternity leave of at least 10 working days is noted. we are not only guaranteeing a right to fathers, but also, and above all, restoring balance in our families. the reconciliation of private and professional life in order to achieve a balance between work and family is one of the objectives to be achieved for families and for our society.
in writing. i abstained from voting on the motion for a resolution on maternity leave in order to respect the principle of subsidiarity, taking into account the structural differences between the member states and the different historical and cultural traditions in this area, which in my view have not been properly incorporated into the proposal.
in writing. ‒ as vice-president of the intergroup on family policies, i voted strongly in favour of this resolution calling for the resumption of negotiations on the maternity leave directive. since 2010, this text has been lying in the eu council without any response to the european parliament's pronouncements on it. pope francis reminded us here in strasbourg in november that the family is "the fundamental cell and precious element of every society [that] carries with it the basic elements to give hope to the future". but how can parents fully assume their role as educators if there is no equal integration of the duties of fathers and mothers, including the introduction of paid paternity leave, and no proper balance between career and family life? we cannot applaud the pope's words and then contradict them with inaction. it is time for the european legislator to take up its responsibilities by taking back the maternity leave directive. parliament did so by adopting this resolution. we call on the european commission and the eu council to do the same.
in writing. ‒ with this motion for a resolution which we are voting on today, the european parliament has the opportunity to demonstrate, by its actions, its determination not to lower the level of attention on the issue of the protection not only of maternity but of parenthood in a broader sense. the proposal is blocked in the council after parliament increased the number of weeks of maternity leave to 20 weeks, with an allowance equal to full pay, and introduced two weeks of paternity leave. it is now in danger of being withdrawn because of this deadlock, and today's resolution is a further attempt to prevent that from happening. how can we speak of a 'union' when such disparities exist within it and, depending on the member state, compulsory leave is increased from 2 to 22 weeks? we need european legislation on this subject which raises the bar for everyone and introduces paternity leave for everyone: it's a cultural shake-up that helps us understand that family and family care is about all of us, not just mothers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of parliament's call for the relaunch of the maternity leave initiative, because it is time to end the current institutional impasse. the council of ministers' regrettable silence should not be a pretext for putting this matter aside, but on the contrary, for us to raise our voices. the european parliament and the socialist group do not want to abandon pregnant women, and that is why we are asking the commission to come forward with a new legislative proposal to protect women's health and safeguard the right to work. we want to take action to help women find a balance between their private and professional lives, so that they are not faced with a crossroads. better legislation on maternity leave is a key step towards strengthening women's presence in the workforce.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. however, considering that a quarter of the member states do not offer paternity leave, and that the sharing of domestic responsibilities between men and women is essential for achieving gender equality, i find myself supporting the direct invitation to the member states to resume negotiations and the oral question to the council to understand how to revise the text of directive 2010/18/eu, with the sole purpose of adopting the most effective safeguard measures. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i decided to abstain, not because i am against maternity leave, which i certainly support, but because i think it would have been a more balanced choice to put an oral question to the council.
in writing. ‒ at the present stage, and taking into account the council's deadlock, the structural differences between the member states - for example on paternity leave - and the different historical and cultural traditions in this area, i have decided to abstain from voting on the motion for a resolution on maternity leave.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the resolution by which the european parliament asks the european commission not to withdraw the proposal for an eu directive on maternity leave which was tabled in 2008, despite being blocked for four years in the eu council of ministers. the resolution reiterates parliament's desire to overcome the current deadlock and calls on the commission to play its role as mediator in reconciling parliament's and council's positions on the stalled text or, if the commission withdraws its proposal, to present a new legislative initiative by the end of the year. the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of pregnant women and their children, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of pregnant women and their children. the commission is also asked to submit a proposal on paid paternity leave, with a view to improving the work-life balance of parents and reducing the gender gap.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution to send a clear message: the eu council must unblock negotiations on the revision of the maternity leave directive, which have been stalled since 2010. in that year, parliament endorsed its ambitious position to establish a harmonised eu-wide maternity leave of 20 weeks and also a paternity leave of at least 10 days, both of which are 100% paid. there are still too many differences between the member states and i firmly believe that both parents should be guaranteed the possibility of experiencing a fundamental moment in life, such as the birth of a child, in the most serene and participatory way possible.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has sent a clear signal today: the commission must present a new legislative text on maternity leave if it really wants to withdraw the current proposal. the commission cannot and must not abandon women, but at the same time it must have the ambition to propose a clear and defined strategy to enable mothers and fathers to reconcile parental responsibilities and work, thus reducing the gender gap.
in writing. i voted in favour of parliament's motion for a resolution, which asks the european commission not to withdraw the proposal for a directive already approved by the european parliament in 2010 and instead to invite the council to resume negotiations. i believe that it is important to have legislation that guarantees mothers the right to combine their private and professional lives when they want to have children and that workers are able to cope with this situation. parliament had raised the minimum maternity leave to 20 weeks, with 100% pay, compared with the 18 weeks originally proposed by the commission. it is true that the european parliament had high hopes for the commission's initial proposal, but the council never took a position because of the disagreement between the member states, and this attitude risks wasting years of work.
oral explanations of vote
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is estimated that there are almost 80 million people in the european union who have severe or moderate disabilities. the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which was ratified by the european union but not by all member states (there are still three missing), is nevertheless an absolute reference point because it guarantees the recognition of the universality of human rights and the need to ensure the full active inclusion of persons with disabilities, without discrimination. however, there are still gaps in data and in access to goods and services and employment, and often citizenship rights. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that we are making real progress with this resolution, firstly by asking the commission to approve the disability package for these policies in order to have a dedicated budget line. but above all, as chairman of the committee on culture and education, i am prepared to cooperate with the other committees, for example on the issue of the integration of quality and the integration of the disabled in schools and universities. finally, we call for greater involvement of parliament and associations in monitoring the convention.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution and strongly urge the commission to take action to bring forward a proposal for concrete and workable european legislation on accessibility for people with disabilities; i regret the lack of progress in the council on this subject and hope that the member states will work towards adopting a common position without further delay.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to support this resolution by voting in favour of it because i share the need to prepare european accessibility legislation that will enable citizens with disabilities to fully enjoy their rights.
in writing. ‒ according to 2014 estimates, some 80 million people in the european union have some form of disability and they are therefore one of the largest and most vulnerable groups of people within our society. it is a heterogeneous group whose full integration into social and working life is a major challenge for all of us. the union's policy is still lacking today. the commission proposed an eu anti-discrimination directive in 2008 but it is unfortunately still blocked by the council. nevertheless, we believe that full inclusion and equal participation of people with disabilities is possible. a truly free, welcoming and barrier-free society can be created by promoting the implementation of human rights at all levels of the definition, from programming to monitoring of eu policies, thus binding the commission to take parliament's proposals into account. legislative proposals must involve representatives of disabled people in their drafting and must affirm the right to paid work and adequate training from primary school as essential elements to enable disabled people to lead independent lives and contribute to the society in which they live.
in writing. - i voted yes. as part of the monitoring of the implementation of the crpd, the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities sent a list of issues with reference to the eu initial report. in the resolution, parliament, in addition to indicating the eu's responses and actions already taken in relation to this list of issues, ensures a response to questions put to it directly and calls on the commission to respond to the questions put to it. of course, there is a call on the commission to "present an ambitious proposal for european accessibility legislation" (paragraph 8) and an emphasis on "the need for enhanced political cooperation within the eu framework" (paragraph 12).
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. persons with disabilities have equal rights, including inalienable rights to dignity, equal treatment, independent living and full participation in society. unfortunately, even in europe, they face discrimination and obstacles to the exercise of their rights on an equal footing with others. the resolution adopted by parliament therefore called on the commission to present an ambitious proposal for european accessibility legislation, fully involving disabled people throughout the legislative cycle. the resolution also stressed that this proposal should cover a wide range of policy areas relating to accessibility of goods and services for all eu citizens, promoting independent living and the full inclusion of people with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i have always been committed to ensuring that persons with disabilities enjoy equal opportunities, fundamental rights, equal access to services and the labour market, and the same rights and obligations as citizens of the member state to which they belong in terms of social security, in line with the principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination.
in writing. ‒ the resolution we voted on represents an important step towards the full implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, going in the direction of strengthening the role of the european parliament in monitoring and implementing that convention, in close liaison with the un committee responsible for analysing progress on the implementation and application of the convention. the resolution also calls for the rapid adoption of two pieces of legislation of major importance for disabled people: the commission has also adopted a proposal for a european accessibility act and a directive on the protection of persons at risk of discrimination. the resolution also calls on the member states to respect the obligation, arising from article 12 of the convention, to guarantee in their national legislation the right of persons with disabilities to vote and stand as electors. more generally, the resolution also promotes the inclusion and full participation of people with disabilities in social life, including through their representative organisations. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in the eu, 80 million people live with some form of disability. unfortunately, as the numerous petitions to the ep have shown, these people often face discrimination and obstacles to the exercise of their rights. as regards employment, in the 20-64 age group less than 50% of disabled people are in employment, compared with over 70% of non-disabled people, while for women with disabilities this figure falls to 44%, compared with 65% of non-disabled women. the eu has formally ratified the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd), which has been signed by all 28 eu member states and ratified by 25 of them. the resolution calls on the commission to formally consult all relevant institutions, agencies and organisations and to come forward with an ambitious proposal on electronic accessibility, recommends that eu funds be used for this purpose and calls on those member states which have not ratified the convention to do so without delay. in the light of these considerations, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by parliament following the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, particularly appreciating the increased attention of the european parliament to disability-related issues and the commitment to combating discrimination and the isolation of affected individuals. ensuring access to employment is essential to enable people with disabilities to lead independent and autonomous lives. i therefore join the call to the member states to make this happen. i also believe that all relevant civil society organisations, agencies and institutions, and first and foremost parliament, as an expression of the popular will, must be consulted and involved in finding the most appropriate responses to the outstanding issues related to disability, in order to facilitate the implementation of the crpd and the monitoring of progress. finally, i join the call on the commission to come forward with an ambitious proposal for european accessibility legislation to enable all eu citizens to enjoy quality goods and services, to promote independent living and the full inclusion of people with disabilities, and to establish a permanent, effective and independent mechanism to record developments.
in writing. ‒ the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is an important legislative document adopted by the united nations general assembly on 13 december 2006 which sets out in detail what needs to be done by states to ensure that people with disabilities can also be an active part of civil society without suffering any kind of discrimination. the european union signed the un convention on 30 march 2007. despite the enormous progress made in recent years, much remains to be done to give disabled people the opportunity to exercise their rights on an equal basis with other citizens. removing all the obstacles that people with motor disabilities encounter in their daily lives remains a priority for the european union.
in writing. ‒ i could only express my vote in favour of this motion for a resolution to consider the list of issues raised by the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities, as a follow-up to the eu's initial report; among many other issues, the un asks the eu what measures it has taken to raise awareness and educate citizens about the provisions of the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd), and also asks the eu to explain what measures it has taken to ensure that persons with disabilities have the right to full portability of their welfare rights when moving within the union. however, this resolution lacks a reference to the right of persons with disabilities to receive care in their own family environment rather than in specialised facilities, and consequently a reference to policies in the member states which recognise the role of the family caregiver as a guarantee of this right. it should be remembered that in too many european countries, including italy, millions of people still give up a dignified existence to devote themselves full-time to the care of their disabled family members, even though they are not protected in any way by their own state.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the resolution encouraging greater efforts in the field of the rights of persons with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ in this vote we called on the commission to involve the european parliament more fully in the matter and called for the full implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, calling on the three member states which have not yet ratified it to do so as soon as possible. it is essential that we do not lose ourselves in unnecessary bureaucratic discussions on such an important matter and that we come to concrete action. today's large majority vote shows the determination of this parliament to remove the remaining odious obstacles to the rights of people with disabilities.
in writing. i strongly supported the resolution on the rights of persons with disabilities. the european commission has been promising for too long to come forward with a proposal for european legislation on accessibility. a political act is urgently needed to ensure the full participation of disabled people in the whole legislative cycle: such a proposal must cover a wide range of areas of intervention, to promote independent living and full inclusion of persons with disabilities and to establish a permanent and effective mechanism. in this context, i would like to stress the need to promote electronic accessibility for people with disabilities, which is an aspect that is not often considered but is becoming increasingly urgent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the list of issues adopted by the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities in relation to the eu's initial report. people with disabilities are one of the most vulnerable groups in our society and often face obstacles to achieving full equality of rights with other citizens. despite the policies implemented by the member states and the european strategies to ensure better access to the labour market, people with disabilities are still subject to severe discrimination. i therefore share the need to encourage member states to improve the effectiveness of these policies and to allow full participation of disabled people in employment and social activities in europe. i strongly believe in the importance of an ambitious proposal from the commission on the accessibility of goods and services for disabled people for all eu citizens, in order to promote independence and full inclusion in society. finally, i welcome the initiative of the european parliament to draw up a joint report on a regular basis within the empl, libe and peti committees to monitor progress in this area.
in writing. it is estimated that some 80 million people in the european union have a disability and information from the eu agency for fundamental rights consistently shows that people with disabilities face discrimination and obstacles to the exercise of their rights on an equal basis with others. i decided to vote in favour because i believe that this is an area where we need to strengthen political cooperation within the eu framework in order to adopt concrete proposals.
in writing. ‒ my vote is, of course, in favour of the joint resolution on the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. estimates put the number of people with disabilities in the european union at 80 million: the european union is committed to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to the promotion of the rights of persons with disabilities. however, even today, due to gaps in services, these people are victims of discrimination and barriers, which make it difficult for them to lead independent and self-determined lives. with this vote in favour, i hope to consolidate that spirit of political collaboration aimed at promoting accessibility and e-accessibility for disabled people, developing quality social and health services (making full use of european funding) and strengthening cooperation through and with disabled people's organisations. in addition, the collection and subsequent dissemination of statistical data on disability, from the employment sector to those relating to daily life, is important as a useful tool for monitoring and for implementing appropriate policies.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the resolution on the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities because it is perfectly in line with the direction taken by the european union, which has been fighting for years for the active inclusion and full participation of people with disabilities in public life. the approach outlined in the 2010 european disability strategy 2010-2020 is in line with the guidelines of the un convention, which identifies eight priority areas for action to combat disability-related inequalities. the areas identified accessibility, participation, equality, employment, education and training, social protection, health and external action all require strong intervention and monitoring. nevertheless, the commission and the council need to involve parliament in the necessary adjustment of the eu regulatory framework. we believe that this resolution is significant in calling on the european commission to present as soon as possible an ambitious legislative proposal which addresses the issue of disability as a whole and which involves the active involvement of all the institutional actors concerned.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i firmly believe that much more needs to be done to ensure the full and effective social inclusion of people with disabilities. equal opportunities and social inclusion for all are core principles to which every state is obliged to conform by removing the causes that limit, or even prevent, full access to the different areas of people's lives. the state must ensure that people with learning difficulties receive an adequate education to enable them to enter the labour market and thus lead a decent life. advice and support activities also for the families of persons with disabilities are a key principle of the good functioning of the state. statistics tell us that over 80 million europeans are disabled. the protection of the most vulnerable sections of society has always been a primary objective; the crpd convention is a key step in the positive development of basic services, which a state must ensure.
in writing. ‒whereas, like all citizens, persons with disabilities have the right to live an independent life and to participate fully in society; whereas the european agency for fundamental rights has fully demonstrated that persons with disabilities are daily victims of discrimination and have to fight against barriers that limit the free exercise of their rights; i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i will not tire of repeating that people with disabilities are full citizens who must enjoy equal treatment and aspire to an independent life and to participation in the life of the society in which they live. i regret, however, that according to the information provided by the eu agency for fundamental rights, people with disabilities still face obstacles and difficulties in the exercise of their equality. i welcome this resolution which calls for action on the list of issues in the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. it is important that there should be ever closer cooperation between the various institutions so that fundamental rights are accessible to all.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. in line with the position adopted by this parliament, i find it unacceptable that the european commission and the council have not involved parliament - the institution representing european citizens and their interests - in the work on the establishment of the code of conduct. code to verify that the member states which have ratified the convention are fully complying with it. the lack of cooperation between the three european institutions has meant that the ec has not been aware of the problems that people with disabilities encounter in their daily lives, including within the institutions themselves. i agree with the text of the resolution, which proposes on the one hand greater investment of european funds to promote accessibility for the disabled and on the other hand greater implementation of existing european legislation by the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution in which the european parliament expresses its strong support for the full implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. we call for the timely adoption of two important pieces of legislation for people with disabilities, namely the european accessibility act and the transversal directive on the protection of people at risk of discrimination. the resolution also states that the european parliament should be fully involved in the monitoring and implementation of the un convention as well as in the process of its review, maintaining a constructive dialogue between the eu and the un committee responsible for reviewing progress on the implementation of the convention.
in writing. ‒ an estimated 80 million people in the european union have a disability and information from the eu agency for fundamental rights consistently shows that they face discrimination and obstacles to the exercise of their rights on an equal basis with others. it is inconceivable that, despite all the programmes, initiatives and strategies in place at eu level, the employment rate for people aged 20 to 64 should be above 70% and that for people with disabilities below 50%. paid work is essential to enable people to lead independent lives, and therefore member states should endeavour to expand access to employment for people with disabilities so that they can contribute to the society in which they live, including by providing inclusive education that allows them to follow a pathway appropriate to their learning capacity and gives them the opportunity to achieve a solid educational background. it is certainly necessary for the european union to have a permanent structured dialogue with persons with disabilities through their representative organisations in full respect of article 4.3 of the united nations convention, which is a key condition for the effective implementation of the convention.
oral explanations of vote
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must congratulate my colleagues on having just voted on a motion for a resolution which is practically in line with the commission's implementing decision. at this point i wonder what the real role of parliament is. we have been working for days to confirm the same decisions of the commission itself? i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the preparation of the next report, but i am saying that it should be a matter for the council to decide. there is also no willingness to reconsider the proposed measures in the light of the scientific evidence that has been presented so far from various quarters, and by that i mean the exclusion of vines from plants that are potentially host to xylella or the damage to health and the environment due to the use of plant protection products on a large scale. the implementation of this decision will allow the eradication of healthy trees within a radius of 100 metres of the infected tree and will prohibit the planting of all species as potential hosts, irrespective of any controls and monitoring. we are therefore talking about short-sighted measures which will certainly have european consequences because of the social, environmental and economic consequences. but mine is a prediction that is unfortunately all too easy. for this reason, as the chief of staff suggested to me in a recent meeting, we have decided to join forces and voice our concerns with the main italian and european farmers' and environmental organizations: i am talking about federbio, i am talking about copagri, the cia, and pan europe. we have just finished presenting and drafting a common and shared position paper, which we will then present to the commission. these alternatives are supported by, among other things, community directives and are also endorsed by academic and scientific figures. i doubt that the competent authorities can turn a blind eye to this and not take responsibility.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our lands (salento) and our farmers have been hit hard by an epidemic which european rules and controls have not been able to stem. our farmers are victims, not perpetrators. olive trees are not only the main source of income, but also a strong identity trait. apulia and the salento, without their great centuries-old olive trees, would be like paris without its famous tower. the decision of the committee on plant health not to pursue the crazy idea of eradicating millions of olive trees in the infected areas is therefore a positive one. but it 's not enough . we need at least three interventions. first, resources under horizon 2020 to develop scientific knowledge that will enable us to eradicate this still poorly understood disease. secondly, urgent measures by the commission to compensate farmers and operators for the serious damage they have suffered. and thirdly, the rational management of the buffer zones.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ considering that the nature of xyella fastidiosa is not fully known and that there are different conflicting scientific opinions on the measures to be taken to combat this bacterium, and also taking note that efsa itself has stated the likely low effectiveness of eradication as a conflicting intervention, especially in cases of spread that have already occurred, i have decided to abstain in voting on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the joint resolution of the main groups in parliament was not convincing: while noting the commission's shortcomings in its delay and superficiality in dealing with the xylella emergency (which italy had flagged in time), it did not invite the commission to review the current eradication plan in place, the reliability of which efsa itself now expresses its scepticism. i therefore abstained on the final vote, instead supporting only resolution b8-0450/2015 calling on the commission to review its plan for the containment of the disease.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to vote in favour of this resolution because i believe that the commission should put in place more effective prophylactic measures against infected products from third countries and that it should seriously consider compensating producers for the eradication measures and the loss of income that the xylella fastidiosa epidemic has caused so far and is still causing.
in writing. ‒ xylella fastidosa is not an italian problem, but a european one. the commission has also received information from the french authorities, which has confirmed that the plant health plan for the area of the outbreak is in place. such unjustified measures, which are in fact designed to protect the environment, add to the damage and require coordinated action by the european institutions. the european parliament's work on this resolution has made great strides in clarifying the problems we have raised. as a first response, the ban on the import of infected plants (which have also been found in france and other countries) solves the problem at its root. similarly, avoiding the total eradication of plants from the infected area by implementing less radical measures is of fundamental importance from a social, economic and environmental point of view. finally, the most important aspects are related to increased investment in scientific research and economic compensation measures for farmers and nurserymen to compensate for losses.
in writing. - i abstained. the nature of the pest is not fully understood and there are therefore conflicting scientific opinions on the phytosanitary measures to be taken. among these is the eradication of infected and potentially infected plants. the lega nord has clearly spoken out against this measure, which is a key element of the commission's proposal. although eradication has been a useful measure in the past for similar, though not identical, phenomena affecting other plant species (e.g. the vine, which was subject to a plant eradication plan), recent efsa positions acknowledge the substantial ineffectiveness of the intervention, especially in the face of the spread of the disease that has already occurred. as these trees are centuries old and, in any case, enter production after many years (decades, compared with the production levels of a historical plant), which also constitute a fundamental element of the rural landscape of those lands and therefore represent a not negligible economic, tourist and social value, our precautionary position is amply justified.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution in question to urge the commission and the member states to compensate farmers, particularly in puglia, for the eradication measures and the loss of income, including from tourism-related activities. i also call on the commission to use all possible funds and instruments to help the economic recovery of the affected areas and to encourage farmers to take preventive measures. no treatment for the diseased plants is currently available. the commission should therefore promote and intensify research efforts, increase international cooperation and address the matter as a matter of urgency. i welcome the eu's decision to restrict imports of plants from affected areas in third countries, such as coffee plants from costa rica and honduras, but i also stress that the commission's reaction times are often not fast enough to prevent plant diseases from spreading within the eu. in order to safeguard the territory, the eu's official plant health control system should be reviewed and, if necessary, the commission should introduce more restrictive import measures.
in writing. ‒ the xylella fastidiosa bacterium is a pest that is seriously affecting olive groves in the south of our country. i voted against the motion for a resolution because it provides for the eradication of all plants potentially susceptible to infection, even if they are healthy, within 100 metres of the affected areas, in order to create a 'buffer zone'. this is an exaggerated preventive measure, lacking any clear scientific support, which will bring the economy of the entire region to its knees by hitting a flagship of italian production in the area.
in writing. ‒ xylella fastidiosa is an immediate and highly dangerous threat to the production of certain crops in southern europe and the epidemic affecting olive trees in apulia has already caused serious damage not only to producers but to the entire olive production chain. the olive sector in apulia accounts for 11.6% of the value of the region's total agricultural production, or eur 522 million, and for 30% of the value of italian olive production. the first outbreak was notified to the italian authorities in october 2013, but the situation has since deteriorated drastically. efsa, given the difficulty of controlling xylella once it has spread to a production area, stressed the need for prevention measures. the commission is therefore invited to prevent the import of infected material, to compensate producers for eradication measures and income losses, to carry out information campaigns, to set up an open database listing the competent authorities in the member states and at eu level, and to inform the ep periodically, or when deemed necessary, of the threat posed by xylella or other organisms. in the light of these considerations, i have voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the italian case of xylella fastidiosa. i share the criticism levelled at the european commission regarding the delays in handling the problem, as well as the inadequacy of the measures adopted until april 2015, which were only aimed at fighting the epidemic and not at preventing the import of infected material from non-eu countries. i share the wish to introduce measures to prevent or restrict the import of infected plants, such as those already adopted for infected coffea plants from honduras and costa rica, and any other useful action. the central point is still the request to the commission and the member states to provide compensation for the producers of the plants which will be eradicated in terms of damage not only to agricultural production but also to the cultural, historical and tourist heritage. i think it is right to use all the funds and instruments at our disposal to raise funds and to allow the economic recovery of the affected areas to take place as quickly as possible. efforts to improve research to increase scientific knowledge and identify appropriate treatments to eradicate these diseases, as well as to create an open database for the exchange of information and best practices, should also be increased.
in writing. ‒ the xylella epidemic affects one of the most important agricultural sectors, particularly in puglia, a region traditionally agricultural. the risk is that not only the agricultural sector will be brought to its knees, but also the whole production chain, including processing and marketing. unfortunately, there is currently no cure and simply eradicating the infected plants would not be enough to eradicate the disease, so efforts must be focused on prevention and research. on the one hand, therefore, it is necessary to activate all the plant protection procedures which will make it possible to contain the epidemic and prevent the risk of its further spread. on the other hand, research efforts should be stepped up, simplifying the use of funds and funding available to the institutes, to identify the pathogens and vectors causing the spread of the disease. in the meantime, the commission and the member states must take all the necessary steps to ensure that producers and territories are compensated, as they are suffering losses not only in terms of future agricultural production but also in terms of cultural and historical heritage.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the xylella fastidiosa epidemic affecting olive trees. xylella fastidiosa is seriously damaging not only italian olive growers but also tourism and marketing activities related to this sector in general and is at risk of spreading to other countries of the union. immediate measures to combat the epidemic are needed, but equally important is the prevention strategy: in this resolution parliament calls on the commission to review the european system of official plant health controls in order to prevent this and new outbreaks from third countries from affecting european territories. we need a strong response from the european union, which can only respond with strong and coherent policies to the challenges that the globalised world of interconnected markets poses to us and will continue to pose in the future.
in writing. ‒ the xylella fastidiosa outbreak, in addition to having dramatic economic, environmental and social consequences, is putting apulia's olive growing at serious risk. the european union must take action to do everything possible to tackle the problem and prevent it from spreading to other regions. the european commission will also have to invest more in research to study and analyse this bacterium with a view to finding solutions to eradicate it.
in writing. ‒ xylella fastidiosa is a bacterium that is affecting olive groves in southern italy, particularly in puglia. the resolution calls for the removal of all plants within 100 meters of areas affected by the bacterium; this is considered an excessive precautionary measure which is not supported by any concrete scientific evidence. i voted against because the final version adopted by parliament does not incorporate some of the key amendments we have proposed. the final version of the resolution risks, therefore, putting local businesses, large and small, in serious difficulty and compromising one of italy's excellences.
in writing. ‒ the xylella fastidiosa emergency has clearly shown the limits of the european union's border management system. that is why, in the face of the disaster we are experiencing in the puglia region, we wanted to send a strong signal of support to the thousands of farmers involved - the first victims of this tragic situation - by proposing compensation for the eradication measures and the resulting loss of income. we also called for a review of the eu's official plant health control system and for more restrictive measures to be introduced for risky imports, so that such a tragedy would not happen again in the eu.
in writing. unfortunately, we are all aware of the enormous damage caused by the bacterium xylella fastidiosa in the apulia region, where farmers, farm owners and nurseries have been struggling for two years now with this phenomenon, which has led to decimation of production, blockade of the market, embargoes from algeria, morocco and france, and above all, they now see a new axis falling on their already difficult situation: a new plan to contain the risks will include the preventive felling of some 296,000 plants currently under seal as host plants for the bacterium. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the olive oil sector is not left to the detriment of the environment. in the face of this difficult emergency, i therefore fully support the call for the eu to intervene as soon as possible with compensation and support for the serious losses suffered by farmers and landowners, while also promoting the exchange of good practice and giving concrete evidence of a european union ready to intervene in national emergencies not only with measures of strict enforcement but also with interventions that translate into support, understanding and sharing of the ills, risks and the common search for their overcoming, for a return to the promotion of the great excellence that characterizes the member states and the union itself.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the xylella fastidiosa epidemic affecting olive trees, which was adopted following the debate on 30 april. xylella poses a serious threat to european agriculture, especially in southern europe, because of its unstoppable spread, the lack of effective plant treatments and the number of plant species susceptible to infection. the eu needs to strengthen prevention measures, given the origin of the bacterium from plants imported from costa rica. i therefore supported parliament's call for strengthening eu legislation on plant health controls and for equipping states with the necessary resources to control and prevent the entry into the eu of plant diseases from third countries by suspending imports of plants from infected countries. i have approved the request to the commission to compensate producers for the eradication measures and the income losses suffered, using european resources for the economic recovery of the affected areas. i think that we need to think further about the need to re-skill our agriculture and reorient it towards less invasive practices. i could not therefore help sharing the concerns about the intensive use of pesticides and the call for financial support for farmers who adopt agronomic practices to combat the bacterium and its vectors.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the xylella fastidiosa epidemic affecting olive trees in apulia, causing serious economic, environmental and social consequences. our aim must be to prevent the spread of the pest, but it is essential to have a proper aid and subsidy scheme for farmers to compensate them for the serious damage suffered as a result of the xylella emergency. at the same time, border controls must be strengthened and funds for scientific research increased.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the phytosanitary emergency that has been affecting olive groves in southern italy for some months now, but which could potentially spread to other crops and regions in europe, we intend to urge the council and the commission to resume the discussion on the revision of the system of official plant health controls on eu imports in a way that protects and safeguards the european territory, while avoiding a negative impact on global trade. we believe that it is necessary not only to provide adequate compensation for the economic losses suffered by producers, but also to strengthen research efforts by promoting greater international cooperation and making funding available to all national research institutes. it is necessary to improve scientific knowledge of xylella fastidiosa and to identify with certainty the pathogens and vectors that cause the spread of the disease, which is potentially dangerous for all european crops and areas.
in writing. ‒ as a southernist and a politician from a region that has been hit hard by the problem, i can only express my support for the work done by my colleagues on the xylella fastidiosa problem, which is an immediate and highly dangerous threat. the problem cannot and should not be limited to the production of certain crops in southern europe, including olive, almond and peach (as well as ornamental plants), but must be considered a threat that could lead to devastating and unprecedented losses, with major economic, environmental and social consequences for thousands of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on xyella fastidiosa which we adopted by a large majority in the plenary is of the utmost importance in view of the catastrophic situation which the bacterium is creating in apulia and especially in salento. the commission will have to take account of what is stated in the resolution, especially when it comes to the eradication of olive trees already infected and healthy ones but only if within a hundred meters of the new outbreaks. it was also very important that the resolution should call for compensation for farmers who have been affected by the epidemic and who are now in a very difficult economic and financial situation. as indicated, there is a need to push for more incisive studies and scientific research on bacterial resistance; we could also consider a specific emergency fund for this situation, given the gravity of the situation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the xylella fastidiosa epidemic affecting olive trees. it is time for europe to act to solve a problem which has seriously damaged a crop and a by-product which has made us famous throughout the world. the bacterium in question, which was introduced into italy by the importation of ornamental coffee plants from central america, has affected the olive groves of which puglia is rich, forcing growers to uproot and burn the plants because they are infected and dangerous for wildlife. i agree that the commission should be able to increase import controls, compensate for damage and allocate adequate resources, for example under the horizon 2020 programme, to carry out research and analysis on xylella fastidiosa and its vectors and to identify remedies.
in writing. ‒ the xylella fastidiosa outbreak spreading in southern italy has caused serious damage to the agricultural sector, particularly to olive groves in puglia. in these circumstances, greater coordination and synergy between the union emergency measures and national and regional interventions to prevent, control and eradicate the bacterium is desirable. it is important that the means used to combat the pathogen are proportionate to the objectives, so as to preserve the territory and the environment as much as possible. i also hope that the sacrifices made by farmers will be taken into account by providing appropriate and adequate forms of compensation. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this resolution in the hope that it will contribute to a better understanding and solution of the problem at european level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the epidemic of xylella fastidiosa, which is decimating olive trees in large areas of the apulia region and threatens to spread to other areas. in the text we call on the european commission to take two urgent measures: to compensate producers who have suffered losses as a result of olive tree eradication operations carried out to contain the spread of xylella fastidiosa beyond the borders of italy, in a timely manner; intensify research and prevention efforts, including through increased funding and international collaboration. the text also supports the eu decision to restrict imports of plants from affected areas in third countries, in particular imports of coffee plants from costa rica and honduras. however, in order to prevent such outbreaks from spreading further within the union, it is also necessary to review the eu plant health control system by introducing, if necessary, additional restrictions on imports.
in writing. ‒ the joint resolution was too weak and, in my view, more harmful than helpful to mediterranean biodiversity. the problem is certainly not the quantity or quality of pesticides that will be used to kill the pathogen, not least because it is not yet scientifically clear whether the disease has developed for the reasons that led to the first eradications. further studies are needed on the agent causing the rapid drying of olive trees and there is a reasonable suspicion that the neglect of olive trees is the cause of the epidemic. the common agricultural policy is a penalty for small producers, and that is a fact: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide for the possibility of a reduction in the number of olive trees planted in the community. the resolution tabled by the five star movement was intended to emphasize the risks of desertification and destruction of agricultural heritage that the current eradication programme entails. it would have been much more useful, at least to cast doubt on the italian and european authorities, at least to ask the right questions. once again, may europe live.
in writing. xylella infection is seriously endangering millions of olive trees and the economy of entire territories. the bacteria from latin america is destroying a heritage of centuries-old plants. the current large-scale eradication programme adopted by the commission is of concern given the potential risks of desertification and destruction of agricultural heritage coupled with the lack of clear scientific evidence of the real effectiveness of the strategy adopted to prevent the spread of the pathogen. i therefore believe that it is essential to consider alternative solutions which also safeguard the agri-food sector and the environment in the regions concerned. it is also important to provide concrete support to the farmers concerned to enable them to adopt appropriate agricultural practices to combat xylella and its vectors, while ensuring adequate compensation for lost livelihoods and income in the event of eradication of olive trees and other plants potentially host to the bacterium. for the reasons set out above, i therefore supported motion for a resolution b8-0450/2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that the european union needs to commit itself to supporting farmers who are facing the xylella epidemic. the commission will have to put in place preventive and control measures, but at the same time help those who are most at risk from this disease in economic and social terms.
in writing. ‒ thousands of olive trees uprooted or cut down to dead trunks. this is the sad scenario that is unfolding in salento, in puglia, where the xylella fastidiosa bacterium has affected olive groves and created a real collective psychosis. this resolution calls for more funds for research and for areas affected by this bacterium and for increased border controls and compensation for all farmers harmed by the spread of the bacterium. the commission has been asked to impose a ban on imports of infected coffee plants from honduras and costa rica and to increase controls at the borders and within the member countries themselves to prevent the spread of the bacterium, which affects not only olive trees but also many other types of plants. in addition, the commission was invited to develop comprehensive guidelines for the implementation of disease prevention and control measures, which could also be used as a support tool by the competent authorities and services of the member states. however, this text lacks a cost-benefit analysis of pathogen eradication strategies, which could result in healthy trees being eradicated simply because they are potential hosts, regardless of any controls.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution on the outbreak of xylella fastidiosa. the resolution calls on the commission to take targeted measures against the spread of xylella, inter alia to prevent the import of infected material into the eu. i think it is particularly appropriate to ask the commission to apply more stringent measures, such as allowing imports from only production sites not affected by the epidemic. i would like to conclude by reiterating my call on the commission to review the implementation of the european plant health control system in order to protect and safeguard our territory against the epidemic.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we know that turkey is a strategic partner for the european union in economic, geopolitical and energy security terms, but we also know that ankara is not implementing the necessary reforms and lacks an adequate legal framework based on democracy and the rule of law. how should we view a government which continues to refuse to recognize the full social and political rights of its citizens of kurdish origin? how should we interpret the failure to implement the provisions of the ec-turkey association agreement for the ninth consecutive year? how can we accept in europe a state which is not in line with the fundamental values on which the european union is based, without an independent judicial system, in which the most basic rights of justice, freedom and security are still denied, a state in which workers have no right to protest or strike? in the light of all this, we wonder whether turkey really intends to do everything possible to meet the criteria required for accession or whether it is not necessary, instead, to start a moment of reflection on the accession process itself.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i also take this opportunity to thank all the members who have supported my candidacy today and the principle of pluralism in this house. i thank mrs piri for her work on this report. you rightly pointed out that accession could be a valuable opportunity for turkey's democratization. the real question we have to ask ourselves is: turkey is not going to take advantage of this opportunity. i don't think you've taken the right road so far. we are of course well aware of the persistent gaps in respect for eu values and the principles of freedom of expression, we are also very well aware of the reforms, or rather counter-reforms, that have taken place from a constitutional point of view with regard to the rights of political opposition, and it is perhaps superfluous to recall that 48 000 websites were blocked by the turkish authorities between 2007 and 2014, unfortunately following some undemocratic tendencies of closing down opposition forces. until there is a just solution to the cyprus problem, until the armenian genocide is recognized and until there is justice for the kurdish people, i do not believe that turkey will have this will and i hope that the turkish people will make a breakthrough in this respect in the june elections.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let's face it: the european union is not a political union. turkey is a great regional power that has no intention, and perhaps no interest, in containing its enormous military, geopolitical, expansionist aspirations: the case of cyprus is proof of this. cyprus is also a member of the european union, but it is not defended. i recall not only the complaints of the opposition, which are numerous and detailed, about collusion (there was talk of turkey's ambiguity on the issue of terrorism, of 50 000 terrorists welcomed, according to an opposition spokesman), but also the complaints of international bodies which report already in 2014 the discovery of turkish-made weapons dating from that year in the conflict zones. so there is hard evidence. i have asked a question on this and mrs mogherini says that there will be a push for turkey to trace these weapons. but when will we get an answer? the reality is that erdoğan's turkey is playing us. the reality is that it is led by a leader who responds in a threatening and mafia-like manner to the pope's moderate words of peace, guilty only of having used the term "genocide", because genocide frightens this turkey. remembering the genocide is our duty the genocide of the armenians! and you, vile europe, don't have the courage to stop these ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, turkey is a strategic partner for the european union. since the accession negotiations were launched in 2005, much progress has been made, but many issues remain unresolved. i am thinking of the incidents which have raised doubts on several occasions about the independence, impartiality and efficiency of the judiciary, the separation of powers and respect for the rule of law, which are the core of the copenhagen political criteria. i am thinking of the problem of corruption, which is also mentioned in the report by transparency international, which ranks turkey 64th. but there are also criticisms in the relationship with the press and the media: reporters without borders ranked turkey in 2014 as one of the countries where journalists have been most exposed to threats and physical attacks. in short, turkey must do much more to meet the copenhagen criteria. the time has come to bring the union into line with its own standards, which necessarily requires the implementation of appropriate and effective reforms. turkey will have to make these efforts to achieve a strengthening of its institutions and the process of democratization, which are essential elements for it to be considered an advanced and mature country.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ethiopia is a key player in the peace process in the horn of africa, in somalia, eritrea and south sudan, but in order to play its international role, it must also achieve peace within itself. there can be no development aid without progress in the democratization process of the country. ethiopia is preparing to vote on sunday, as we just heard. a vote whose outcome we already know. the union has chosen not to send observers to this election. mr. president, we are the main supplier of aid to this country: we therefore have a duty and a responsibility to ensure that human rights and diversity are respected, to promote good governance and to encourage the process of democratization. there are still too many, too many abuses in the country today. the following persons are listed in annex i to decision (cfsp) 2015/1831: these are just some of the names of people arrested by the ethiopian government, identified in recent days by the horn of africa league for human rights. 50 were arrested in a student demonstration, 20 injured - this in april alone - in a country where the media is gagged. bloggers, like the one from the "zone 9" group, who have been in prison for a year without trial, and journalists are daily intimidated and arrested. not even a european union passport can stop the government's abuse of information: this was discovered by swedish journalists martin schibbye and joan person, who were arrested in 2011 and released after 14 months in prison. ethiopia has been experiencing an economic boom in recent years. it is time for the regime to make progress towards a more equitable society that respects human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 24 may new elections will be held in ethiopia, the second most populous country in africa. it will be another farce and sad election, because at most the polls will tell us whether the party now in government, the eprdf, will get 99%, 99.5% or 100% of the seats. this country unfortunately has the highest number of imprisoned journalists on the continent. i myself participated as an observer for the european union in the elections in tunisia and nigeria on the african continent. i have seen in the eyes of those peoples what it means to hope for a true democracy and i say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not enough to have double-digit economic growth and a few troop contingents to make us forget what the rule of law is and how civil and political freedoms are violated every day in ethiopia. we have to ask ourselves, we have to ask china, too, who are savagely colonizing you. we cannot afford to turn a blind eye to this and we must be consistent with our values at all times and in all circumstances, whatever the cost.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, any effort by ethiopia to promote economic growth and poverty reduction, to support the development and prosperity that we recognize and applaud, can be seriously undermined if, at the same time, there is no effort to ensure sustainable democratic development. and there can be no such development if freedom of expression and information is restricted, which is a necessary condition for it and, nevertheless, one of the fundamental values on which we have built our collective life. that is why we cannot remain silent as the european union about what is happening in ethiopia in general and in particular in view of the forthcoming political elections. the economic situation cannot be judged independently and does not justify any action to suppress civil and human rights. europe has a duty not to leave citizens and information workers alone, because even so we are helping sustainable development in this country.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, too little is being done for ethiopia, one of the countries in africa with the greatest economic and social difficulties. the most worrying fact about this country is that it has one of the lowest life expectancies in the world, at just 49 years. the main reason for the high mortality rate is the lack of the main good for the human being: the water. even today women have to walk several miles to the very few wells that exist, and it is estimated that in ethiopia one person dies every 20 seconds from lack of water and poor sanitation. the country also faces a very high rate of emigration, forcing even educated young people to escape unemployment by seeking work elsewhere. another matter of concern is the difficult coexistence between christians and muslims. the local government has recently put together a major investment plan for industrial development. this is certainly a positive step, but it is useless if the emergencies that prevent the population from living in acceptable conditions are not resolved first. europe should be able to intervene more concretely to lift the country out of this grave situation and guarantee living conditions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard the debate: here, depending on who is speaking, some say ethiopia is a disaster, some say gdp is at 10 percent, some say that every x seconds an ethiopian dies, and some say that they are finally getting out of poverty. deal with it! but i think that beyond ethiopia, perhaps it is better to talk more about europe. do we want to talk about our elders? do we want to talk about our young people out of work? or do we want to talk about libya? where the europeans, the ones who are talking here, these hypocrites here, bombed libya and gaddafi, and now we have the shit in libya. we have the shit and the illegals arrive with the terrorists, with the boats, as happened today in italy. and we have a government of crooks in italy who say it's not true. is this africa that europe means? wake up now!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, gruevski on the one hand and zaev on the other met here yesterday. we have sought mediation, a difficult mediation between two parties who are in a situation of rather heated political debate. meanwhile, in macedonia, we see people marching in the streets, in a climate that is becoming more and more fiery. i believe that this is also partly the result of 10 years or more of waiting in the process of joining the european union, which has meant that instead of taking steps forward for those people in moving towards the rule of law, they have taken steps backwards. i think that we, the members of this house, must ask ourselves whether we as the european union have any responsibility for the loss of so much time, and above all whether some states have had any responsibility. i welcome the call made by mrs lunacek, especially to the newly installed greek government, to take some important steps in this direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by greeting the audience. you're here watching, look at how many deputies are busy. do you know how much this toy costs? 250 million a year. this is the europe of waste. as far as fyrom is concerned - because it is called fyrom and not macedonia - none of you has mentioned the very, very particular interest of the united states in not letting the pipeline through. and perhaps it is not the united states that is fomenting the movements in fyrom, precisely because the pipeline does not pass through and because fyrom, let us say, is moving towards russian issues, because fyrom, by the way, is looking at different solutions? do you not think that perhaps the americans, as they do all over the world, want to get their hands on it and when they fail to do so they foment revolutions, foment groups to rebel against perhaps something else? try to think about it a little bit better instead of sleeping all day. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. you should first learn about my history: i'm also the mayor in italy, voted for 21 years in a row. anyway, i'm here, you look at my stats and my voting percentages and what i do. i believe i am in the top 50 of all the 751 members from strasbourg and brussels. and since i'm a man who says things to my face, i say what i think; i am a man of the people, sometimes i swear, but i prefer to swear sometimes than to be a hypocrite like many of you - i am not against everyone but a few - who perhaps make salamelekki, laugh and joke and then ignore the european people. you got it?
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are approaching the very important date of the conference on the eastern neighbourhood policy which we will be holding very soon. i have to agree with those who said it was very sad to find the commission seat empty: it's not a priority, even though it seems absurd to think so. but how close are we to that summit? we, for our part, reiterate that it is right for every country which respects the copenhagen criteria to cultivate european ambitions and perspectives. unfortunately, however, it is clear that in many of our partner countries corruption, the state architecture, the independence of the judiciary are huge problems, the rocks to be tackled. i think that we must absolutely use the cooperation funds and aid we give each year to our partner countries for this purpose and not to pursue a mad race to polarization and armaments, which are certainly not the priority of the people concerned. we hope that this summit will be an opportunity to reaffirm this.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, some people have rightly complained that we are in danger of being overtaken in our relations by the pacific alliance. i am not surprised at all, however, because unfortunately we still have the arrogance, the illusion of being the reference point, but above all we have this desire to concentrate our relations with south america exclusively on the economic and commercial side. and here's why it loses: europe loses every time it gives up putting political relations first, relations based also on the fight against corruption, money laundering, climate change, every time it becomes resigned and thinks simply of the vile meagre, as some would say. we must instead put at the heart of our relations with south america a development which is more harmonious and 360 degrees. we must win our south american partners over with our brains and hearts first and then perhaps with our pockets, but unfortunately many of us have not yet understood this.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, i am grateful for this opportunity to discuss with you the youth labour market situation in the european union. the presidency attached great importance to improving the conditions of groups facing the biggest challenges to accessing or remaining in employment. these groups include, in particular, young people, and among them especially those without proper education and skills. fighting youth unemployment and ensuring sustainable labour market integration remains a top priority for the eu. indeed, the europe 2020 strategy has put a special focus on implementing effective measures to address youth unemployment. the reality is that youth unemployment is still at a very high level in several member states, leading to underutilised talents, the loss of human resources and, in some cases, leaving damaging consequences for the rest of the working life. in this context, the youth guarantee, together with the financial provisions of the youth employment initiative, are highly relevant: both measures seek to support the fight against youth unemployment in the most affected regions, namely those with youth unemployment rates above 25%. as a positive example, i would like to underscore the experience of latvia. latvia is one of the countries which started the implementation of the youth guarantee as of january 2014. we can already see the first results: the youth unemployment rate decreased by 3.8% in 2014. a lot depends on the programmes implemented by the member states. nevertheless, it is already clear that more needs to be done. despite the promising stimulus, the youth employment initiative and the youth guarantee are not a panacea to solve europe’s youth unemployment problems. they are part of a range of tools to address the issue. as we all know, the shorter implementation period of the youth employment initiative compared to the multiannual financial framework cycle means that concrete progress in the first years will be crucial for the overall success of the initiative. this can help to tackle the problem faced by the millions of young europeans who are without a job and who do not have adequate access to education or training. therefore, i am convinced that the honourable members of the european parliament share my view that any further delay in the implementation of the youth employment initiative is likely to weaken the impact of actions undertaken by member states to combat youth unemployment. one of the main obstacles in the implementation of the youth employment initiative is the lack of sufficient cash flow to provide advance payments to beneficiaries. the presidency wants to highlight the importance and timeliness of the current legislative proposal to accelerate the implementation of the youth employment initiative. i therefore fully agree with the european parliament that making funding available to member states earlier in the implementation process is a key condition for improving the performance and generating tangible results soon. sufficient liquidity at the beginning of the implementation process will allow for faster delivery of the relevant policy measures set out in the national youth guarantee implementation plans. we can be proud that the current amending legislative proposal has been finalised in record time. the council adopted the draft proposal yesterday. today, immediately after your vote, we, together with president schulz, co—signed the text already. after the publication, which will occur in the coming week, member states will be able to receive pre-financing. in total, the initial pre-financing made available from the specific allocation for the youth employment initiative will be increased to about eur 1 billion in 2015. i would like to take this opportunity to reaffirm that the council will continue to actively monitor developments concerning the youth employment situation and the implementation by the member states of the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative. at the same time, we need to keep in mind that the causes behind youth unemployment are complex. the increase in funding is complementary to other measures and reforms that member states have to make in order to tackle the different crisis-related and structural problems behind the youth employment situation. all in all, to significantly reduce unemployment, we need to do more to create new jobs. last but not least, let me also underscore the important role the social partners play in this context.
i am glad to have the opportunity to address the serious issue of youth unemployment again just a few weeks after the approval of the measure to increase the amount of prefinancing for the youth employment initiative. today the european parliament is calling on the member states to show that they are serious about tackling the scourge of unemployment among europe's young people. we need to be assured that the council is prepared to fight for its young people, whatever the cost: "ready to do whatever it takes", to use a terminology we're all familiar with. we said it before, i say it again today: the european parliament has teamed up with the commission and the council to approve the amendment to the esf regulation, thus allowing the release of resources for the member states in record time. but now it is time to produce results, to launch programmes and to overcome the obstacles once and for all. this is not just a financial problem, however. first of all, we must solve the major problems of excessive bureaucracy in registering for programmes for both young people and companies, the partners who would like to join. it will also be essential to improve the communication aspect of these programmes, which is totally inadequate at present. many young people, especially those who need it most, are not even aware of the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative. this is frankly absurd. we need to change gears fast. efforts must be stepped up to ensure that young people receive quality services, and to prevent these services from becoming a source of insecurity or even a means of exploitation. this must be done by the member states, with the help of the commission and under the supervision of parliament. they must rise to a challenge that may define or cost the fortunes of an entire generation. the youth employment initiative alone cannot create new jobs. there is no magic wand: the rapid and efficient use of all the resources offered by the union must be accompanied by a policy of economic growth based on investment in strategic sectors. in essence, what is needed is a european industrial policy, the ability to distribute income in a union still too marked by inequalities to leave a better future for future generations. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i believe that a mix of actions is needed: on the one hand, the ability to grow the economy so that the jobs that are created are real and so that these projects, these european funds, do not become subsidies, and therefore subsidies, but are actually job creators. the commission has to give clear instructions and parliament has to monitor the member states. so, you need both.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to the council representative. i have often wondered why such a clear ineffectiveness of an initiative which should have had a very specific aim, alas, to solve the problem of unemployment and not to increase employment. because unfortunately we are currently working on the emergence of a very serious problem, such as unemployment, which obviously does not allow us to make long-term plans, which does not allow us to think at all about the future, to create jobs and to innovate. mr morin-chartier made a point of saying: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of young people against discrimination in employment. i am sorry to say that very often many people probably do not even know what the youth employment initiative is and do not know what the youth guarantee is either, and do not distinguish between the two and decide which is which. this is even more serious, because if we knew what the opportunities were, if we made specific programmes that really took into account the needs of our young people, well, perhaps we could make extremely more effective policies, which in my country, unfortunately, is not the case. we missed all the targets. i can ask one thing, because i am still ashamed of the way in which the opportunities provided by the european union are being squandered: i would like to ask you to monitor carefully how these resources are used by the countries and the member states, to monitor and control the programmes, to control the way they are implemented, to control where and how the money is spent, because i can guarantee you that the young people who have benefited from these resources in italy can be counted on the fingers of one hand. this is the reality and we must accept it. i call for a monitoring, a careful and continuous control of how this money is used.
in writing. the case of the youth employment initiative is, unfortunately, the exemplary demonstration that if you do not have a clear and effective plan for how to structure a public policy, its funding, even if large, is not enough. the job is not created by simply putting money into the system, but by completely rethinking our employment system, especially in terms of access to work, but also in terms of training and vocational guidance. this is too important to be left to the individual states: there should be common guidelines at european level to ensure that the eu funds allocated under the iog are used most effectively. every policy, and especially those relating to employment, should be followed by an evaluation to identify its strengths and weaknesses, so that action can be taken on them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
zanda kalniņa-lukaševica,president-in-office of the council. madam president, the last point in today’s agenda: japanese whaling activities in the antarctic. the issue of japanese whaling activities in the antarctic is not new, but it gained new prominence in 2010 when australia filed an application with the international court of justice against japanʼs programme called jarpa ii. in its application, australia contested the legality of jarpa ii as being incompatible with the international convention on the regulation of whaling. the international court delivered its judgment on 31 march 2014 and found against japan on a number of counts. we read this judgment with great interest, as we consider it offers a definitive interpretation of the convention and its schedule, and clarifies the legal framework for scientific whaling. it is an important milestone for all contracting governments to the international whaling commission (iwc), certainly when it comes to assessing the necessity of having recourse to lethal methods of sampling where non-lethal alternatives exist. the presidency, at that time, on behalf of the eu and its member states, expressed this view at the meeting of the international whaling commission held in september 2014, in portorož, in slovenia. we supported the adoption of resolution 2014-5, called ‘whaling under special permit’, which offers, among other elements, directions for the scientific committee to consider when assessing new and existing special permit research programmes. yesterday, the iwc scientific committee began its meeting in san diego. japan has submitted a proposal for a new special permit research programme in the antarctic ocean, which is currently being reviewed under what is known as the ʽannex p processʼ. the findings of the expert panel set up by the scientific committee will be reviewed and the scientific committee should make a recommendation to the iwc. the european union and its member states have always favoured an approach that would preserve both the independence of the scientific committee, as a scientific forum, and the policy prerogatives of the iwc as the ultimate decision-making authority under the international convention. under this approach, policy matters should not be discussed in san diego. we remain ready to engage politically with japan at the appropriate level and in the appropriate forum, once the scientific committee has issued its recommendations to the international whaling commission.
i come from a geographical area known as the cetacean sanctuary, an international marine area with a significant presence of these ecologically vital mammals. i shall not go into the importance of their protection, which is recognised by the european union, which prohibits their capture. but not everywhere. japan has announced that it will resume its antarctic whaling program on scientific grounds, despite a ruling by the international court of justice in the hague just a year ago that it was necessary to suspend the practice as lacking scientific purpose, not least because let's face it so-called scientific evidence often ended up on the shelves of japanese supermarkets. yeah, let's not hide behind a finger: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's research is not disguised as a purely commercial activity. japan's intention is therefore in clear contradiction to the international moratorium on commercial whaling of the sea giants imposed in 1986 by the international whaling commission, a body set up to protect endangered cetaceans. we cannot stand by and let this madness continue with the complicit silence of the institutions. europe is opposed without a doubt. the trade agreements between the eu and japan are being discussed these days. i believe that europe must also be more ambitious in this area of agreement and must make it a condition for the cessation of illegal fishing.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that nations like japan respect the judgments of the international court of justice, especially on matters involving the management of common goods. the court's ruling was clear: the japanese whaling in antarctica is not scientific and is in fact illegal. japan's proposal to resume whaling is no different from the previous programme and is therefore contrary in form and spirit to the judgment of the court. the experts of the international whaling commission also stated that the new request submitted by japan is not scientifically justified. this parliament must urge the commission and all the member states to make it clear to the government of japan that we expect it to comply fully with the judgments of the court and the decisions of the international whaling commission and, of course, there must be no resumption of whaling in the antarctic next season. the european union is not only a member of the united nations, but also a member of the international community.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i would like to ask my colleague whether he does not think that spain has been able to return to growth precisely because it has not followed the rules, rather than because of the reforms. in fact, if you look at the deficit/gdp ratio of the spanish state in recent years, you see that spain has never respected the 3% limit imposed, that is to say, spain, the spanish state, has been able to invest to recover growth, to get back on a growth path. don't you think that's the real reason, rather than reforms?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the data released in may are disturbing, and i am referring in particular to the greek case. i wonder how it is possible to go from a growth outlook for greece of 2.5% a year to the meagre 0.5% indicated a few days ago in the space of just three months. perhaps there are people at the european commission who enjoy using random numbers and figures, or perhaps there are further signs that the situation is actually much more dramatic than what is being told to the european citizens. the central point is that there is no way out of the crisis, at least not through the policies decided by the troika, which have proved to be totally unsuccessful. the way greece has repaid the imf this week is only a palliative, a grotesque and tragic way of postponing, and not much, a huge problem that risks bringing the country to an imminent default with unforeseeable consequences. my question to the commission is whether it has considered possible alternative solutions, such as grexit, or whether it will wait for the system to break down before taking concrete action.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 25 million european citizens are out of work. in italy, 82 000 businesses have failed since the start of the crisis and 1 million jobs have been lost. in italy, youth unemployment rose from 20% in 2007 to 40% in 2013, and unemployment continues to rise. these are the real, real numbers of a crisis that is far from over. how can the commission, in the face of these figures, say that the recovery is on the upswing? i, like 60 million italians, am still waiting to see the economic recovery announced by mario monti in 2012, when he saw the light at the end of the crisis tunnel. but that light was the train's beacon, a train called europa. the europe of absurd treaties and sacrifices. a train driven by those who defend the interests of banks, finance and the powerful. a train that must stop immediately and change direction immediately. we, colleagues, are on that train and have a great responsibility. let's stop that train before it overwhelms everyone. let's stop this europe before it's too late.
member of the commission.– madam president, this has been a very rich and very lively discussion. the european economic forecast has rarely benefited from such a strong conjunction of supporting factors. however, these are expected to be largely temporary and the legacy of the crisis will continue to be felt for years to come. in order to make the recovery sustainable and avoid the risk of falling back into negative growth, it will be essential to invigorate more permanent growth drivers. three sets of actions are imperative. first, a coordinated boost to investment. many of you have already mentioned this. it could be achieved by reorienting public expenditure towards more growth-enhancing investment and by swiftly implementing the investment plan for europe. second, a renewed commitment to growth-enhancing structural reforms and reforms in product, services and labour markets that increase productivity and foster investment, which are key to enhancing the euro area potential growth. reforms implemented in recent years in some member states are starting to bear fruit, and accommodative monetary policies help facilitate their implementation and enhance their effectiveness. third, the continued pursuit of fiscal responsibility. the current broadly neutral aggregate fiscal stance is appropriate in the light of the gradual recovery. yet, in order to address both the short- and medium-term challenges europe faces, member states with fiscal space should seize opportunities to step up useful investment, while those with large deficits can consolidate debts. everywhere, the composition of public finance can be designed in a more growth-friendly manner. these three actions have been the economic priorities of the juncker commission since its first day in office. they were the guidance given in the 2015 annual growth survey, and the package of country-specific recommendations we adopted last week fully reflects these key priorities to reinvigorate growth and employment in the european union. under this new commission, we have revised our policy coordination process to promote better implementation of the recommendations. so far, about 55% of the recommendations to member states from last year have recorded at least some progress in their implementation. the ongoing recovery is an opportunity for all stakeholders to redouble their efforts. let us not miss this opportunity, and let us make sure we act on the new recommendations.
vice-chairman of the itre committee i am speaking on behalf of mr buzek, the chairman of the committee on industry, research and energy, which is also represented here by other colleagues who will certainly be taking part in the debate, to ask the commission very forcefully for an answer on certain points in the question, which concern significant achievements in our energy policy. we are all very aware that over the years the need for an eu energy policy has grown, and there is also a legal basis in the treaty of lisbon. there is, however, a very strong need to move towards the integration of the different national markets in order to create a single european market. in this sense, parliament has been working on legislation in recent years and we have arrived at the so-called third energy package, which contains very significant rules, a whole series of implementing regulations. i would ask the commission - and you in particular, mr commissioner, to be an active spokesman - to stress that our objectives, which are always very ambitious, must be equally ambitious and equally tenacious in the implementation phase, otherwise we set ourselves great goals but then we do not achieve them because we do not put the necessary instruments and resources in motion. i am thinking in particular of the third energy package. i was in parliament, like other colleagues, when we launched it, but we are very short-changed, as we know, in the implementation phase. not all the rules have been implemented in all countries, in all member states: in some cases, yes, but in others, these objectives are still very far away. and there is a great asymmetry between the realities of the different countries, which makes our european market very lame. that is why i emphasize this attention to the need to proceed with more concrete action in our policies. in particular, the question concerns the implementation of the obligations provided for in the so-called remit (the regulation on the monitoring of the wholesale energy market). this 2011 regulation provides that from this year onwards acer the european agency which has been entrusted with the task of coordinating national energy regulators will be given the task of monitoring the wholesale market in addition to the tasks it already has as the body coordinating the regulators. and already this year it should examine a very considerable number - i do not know if we are calling it here, in the question - but it is a very, very considerable number of contracts, of transactions that have been carried out, but about which we are not sure that they meet the criteria, the rules of transparency, the rules of fairness that we envisage. the commission has therefore given acer a very difficult task to undertake, and it must do so as from october this year. but we have found, in the hearings we periodically hold in committee with all the agencies dealing with matters also within our competence, that it has absolutely no manpower and adequate resources to do so. we therefore ask the commission: what do you think? if this monitoring fails, what happens in the european market? is there more certainty or is there more uncertainty? is there more transparency or is there more opacity? that is why we are asking for an assessment of this situation, for a forecast of what will happen if acer is not able to do this. we also stress that the partial authorization which has been given to supplement the resources it currently has with some 15 units is insufficient. they've calculated with a very careful study that you need at least 45 units of a certain level. i know that the commission has adopted - and i share this - a policy of restraint and moderation in staffing, including cuts, and we often oblige the agencies and also our parliamentary institutions, the commission and the council, when they make requests for enlargement, to first of all see whether there is any possibility of reviewing the distribution of staff. this is all very fair. but here, it seems, there is no possibility of using internal resources, nor of having experts from the national authorities, who are sometimes already understaffed for the tasks they have. so there is an invitation to look at the situation closely, to take responsibility for these failures and to offer solutions. i'll close with another final observation in the few seconds i have left. we have a flaw, which we are also proposing in the digital union: large drawings and few concrete implementation steps. this is a great loss for europe, because it is still europe which is criticized by many for its great promises but its poor achievements.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, acer already has very important tasks today which, as provided for in remit, will become even more onerous from october 2015. no one can say exactly how much more manpower will be needed, but we believe that the itre committee - of which i am honoured to be a member - has a good reason for asking for more officials and resources than are already planned. the energy market can be subject to serious irregularities and, given the level of economic interests at stake and the importance of the future energy union, we do not think it wise to be too soft on staff. we take this opportunity to highlight another critical point, since we also think it is unwise to be too liberal about the possible exemptions provided for by remit, which allows too many exceptions to the reporting obligations: we do not understand, for example, why companies in the same group should not report data on internal transactions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, given that there are thousands and thousands of civil servants in the european union, it does not seem to me that it is so impossible to give a training course to a few civil servants who perhaps sleep a little on their feet, who perhaps have little work: i think there are many in the european union. and so it would be useful, without spending too much money, to have these people go to work in the energy agency, acer. but i also wonder: but we want the energy, we want control, why don't we want the russian pipeline? it 's about energy . we want to improve energy and then europe is against the russian pipeline. just because putin's here? then it is a contradiction. i mean, on the one hand you want to show something, but in the concrete things you make war on putin because putin is the bad guy. instead of waging war where it should be waged, that is, against the question of illegal immigrant boats, we go to putin to break his boxes, so they destroy our enterprises too, in this case also italian ones.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i also thank the commissioner and commissioner cañete, to whom you will convey our requests on this subject. at the last plenary session we decided to postpone the discharge for some european union agencies because it was felt that further examination of their accounts was needed. this is not the case for acer. acer is an agency working on one of the major issues at stake for the future of the european union: we have the big conventional infrastructure networks, namely the ten-t, we have e-tens in the digital market and we have ten-e in the energy market. we have two challenges, in addition to the cultural challenges, which i am looking at with particular attention. in the economic field, the two challenges are: the digital single market and the energy market. we must overcome them, and to overcome them we need regulators who can do their job.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, itai dzamara was kidnapped on 9 march 2015: so it's been two months and we've barely heard from him. he's an activist, a leader of occupy africa unity square, a dissident against president mugabe. mr van orden has already said: there's a situation in zimbabwe where if you disagree with the government, you risk being kidnapped, you risk disappearing. in all this we have for a couple of months - so in february - decided to ease the sanctions, we have prepared 234 million in aid for zimbabwe. i do not think that is very consistent with what we are asking for in this resolution, so perhaps this should be reviewed. china is in this, and unlike us, it is financing without demanding respect for human rights. and there, too, we should reflect on how we are going to relate to the other powers that operate in the developing world.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rohingya are the most persecuted minority in the world according to the united nations, a real obstacle which all the surrounding states want to get rid of in some way. these people live between the persecution of buddhists in myanmar/burma and the escape through the sea in small boats - something we see very similarly in the mediterranean - from the bay of bengal to neighboring states, states that reject or states like thailand, which has inhuman treatment, torture in the southern jungle on the border with malaysia. we welcome the change in attitude by malaysia and indonesia, which are now hosting these refugees, and we want to send a strong message to countries such as thailand and burma, which will be meeting in a summit in eight days' time, to change their attitude towards these people and to protect these basic rights, because this is a very tragic situation.
mr president, i will take up what my predecessors have said. i think we can all agree that the violence against the rohingya must be condemned very strongly by the european parliament. but it should not be a formal conviction, which is, in my opinion, too little. i agree with those colleagues who say that if burma and other countries do not change their policies, this should affect our relations, the relations of the european union and the countries of the european union with these countries. it should also have a concrete economic impact, particularly on burma, which has been mentioned here, which is the root of all evil. it needs to be said clearly, it is incomprehensible that the rohingya do not have citizenship. here it was mentioned by some colleagues, it is incomprehensible that people who were born in burma and whose ancestors have lived there for centuries do not have citizenship of this country. it's just that it's hard to do business with a country like that and have a good relationship with it. likewise, the neighbouring countries, thailand, indonesia, malaysia, if they do not respect the principles of international refugee law, do not investigate the crime of transfer of residents, the crime of trafficking in human beings, they must be sanctioned by the european union. it's not possible to stay with words.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution raises the plight of the rohingya, who are rejected by burma and rejected by the countries of the region, with the exception of a certain commitment by thailand, which must be greatly improved. no one wants them, they're persecuted and mistreated. they're stateless, not people, but ghosts. europe is certainly right to call on distant countries to shoulder their responsibilities. but europe would be more authoritative in this call if this tragedy of the ships off the seas with human beings on board did not also occur in the centre of the mediterranean. today indonesia and malaysia have decided to take in the desperate, but will the european states on the reception quota show the same willingness? i hope so.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i find this incident to be truly incredible. some have rightly described the rohingya people as the most unwanted people in the world and one of the most persecuted minorities. they 're right . in burma, thanks to a 1982 law, they cannot take up citizenship, cannot travel without official permission or own land, and even have to sign a pledge not to have more than two children. this seems to me to be a gross, total and massive violation of the basic human rights that should be recognized to every population. the fact is that they are forced to flee to neighbouring countries, and so what happens is the exploitation of child labour and the shameful trafficking of human lives in thailand, in camps that are often not far from the images we have seen in history books of the nazi concentration camps. i think that our message to burma, to thailand, must be very clear: the only things that must not have citizenship in these states are racial hatred, discrimination, exploitation and every form of disregard for human rights. if we are not consistent with ourselves, if we are not strong on this point and continue to give priority to trade relations, it is difficult for this catastrophe to find a solution. let's try to be consistent in our relationships.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as mr demesmaeker has already said: thulani maseko and bhekithemba makhubu were arrested and imprisoned simply for criticizing the swaziland judicial system. one is a lawyer with the swaziland congress of trade unions and the other is the editor-in-chief of the nation, the country's most important newspaper. swaziland is a country that since its independence in 1968 has practically always been in a state of emergency. it is an absolute monarchy, as has already been said, but it is also a country which has a system of generalized preferences with the european union and the commission should check that the requirements of this system are met. so that is one of the things we are asking for in this resolution. it is clear to me that it is impossible to enter into relations with a systematic violator of human rights, and we hope that this resolution will send a strong signal to the government of swaziland.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, swaziland is an absolute monarchy, a monarchy in which even the last two independent voices, maseko and makhubu (the first is a courageous lawyer who had the audacity to criticise a judicial system which is not impartial, not independent, it is an understatement; the second is the last editor of the only independent newspaper in the country), have been arrested, silenced, mistreated. even in light of the fact that coca cola even represents 40% of the country's gdp, controlling all water reserves, and precisely because of its presence, i am shocked to think that even the united states, despite these big business interests, decided to suspend the preferential trade agreement in november 2014 precisely because the reforms were not implemented. so what can we do? we must be consistent and remember that the treaties we have signed, starting with the future economic partnership agreement with the sadc countries, are not scrap paper when they also mention democracy as conditionality, just as the cotonou agreement is not scrap paper. it is time to be consistent with our positions and to throw our fists on the table when it comes to upholding human rights and democracy, otherwise we are the ones who lose credibility and image.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a very famous television programme in italy called "scherzi a parte": they make jokes and you think it's true. but this is "jokes aside"? we were just talking about the immigrants from burma. we europeans are not able to solve the problem of immigrants coming from africa, libya and other countries, but we are committed to watching what malaysia and thailand are doing. that is the problem with europe. now let's talk about swaziland. i'd like to know, of all the people in here, how many of you know where swaziland is. where is swaziland? instead of worrying about swaziland, let us worry about our companies, our elderly, our young people, what the future of europe is, what we must do to get ahead, not about unknown countries! and then, at the end of the fair, you waste time, you make resolutions, which in the end are useless, except to take them to the bathroom, because these things are useless! these two gentlemen and the swaziland government don't give a damn what we do here today!
in writing. ‒ despite some agreeable passages, i find many of the positions taken in the report unclear. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced that a development of the common security and defence policy towards greater and closer integration is both necessary and desirable, especially in the light of the international situation on europe's borders, which cannot be dealt with effectively by individual members but must be dealt with together at eu level.
in writing. - i chose not to. the report is too 'crushed' on the whole, despite some points of agreement, on nato's positions and on the disappointing capabilities of mogherini, as well as on the imposition of a single line for all member states.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (in line with the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the common foreign and security policy). the wave of armed conflict, crisis, instability and widespread human rights violations in the immediate vicinity of the european union are a cause for concern. if we add to this the current terrorist threat, we understand that the security of the eu as a whole is at risk. in the face of such threats, the european union is still unable to act as a single, decisive and decisive actor, and too often the member states resort to uncoordinated initiatives. the new challenges facing europe, on the other hand, highlight the absolute need for the member states to work together in a genuinely coordinated common action within the framework of the common security and defence policy. i therefore hope that the european council on defence in june will be able to make important progress in this direction, improving the eu's territorial defence capability and its ability to make a significant contribution to crisis management.
in writing. ‒ in my view, the report in question is too critical for me to be able to vote in favour of it. in particular, i am opposed to the member states investing more resources in defence and to an eu offensive capability which, according to the report, should be able to intervene in every aspect of crisis management. for these reasons i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ regarding the measure under consideration concerning the implementation of the common security and defence policy, i believe that the european union and the member states must adapt without further delay to the new security challenges. i also believe that the european defence council should take decisions to improve the union's and the member states' territorial defence capability, in full complementarity with nato. i agree with the political framework for systematic and long-term cooperation in defence, based on convergence of capability planning processes and exchange of information. for all these reasons i have decided to vote in favour of the measure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the common security and defence policy, which in my view provides a precise description of the current situation. in particular, the high number of new challenges, some of them long-term, facing the european union is underlined: the increase in instability and tensions at its external borders is a serious threat to europe, which shares with other states the responsibility for ensuring the security and defence of its citizens. in the face of public spending cuts, it is considered essential that an increasing pooling of resources be achieved, while making full use of the economic, diplomatic, security and defence capabilities of the eu institutions, in order for governments to ensure an adequate level of protection for their citizens. as regards the criticisms, i share the concerns expressed about the evident structural weaknesses of the interventions, the slowness and rigidity of the decision-making processes and the lack of logistical and financial responsiveness; i share the view that greater solidarity between member states in the financing of missions and in the actual constitution of forces is essential to ensure the functioning of the common foreign and security policy now and in the future.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on crises in the south and east of the union to raise the need for the eu to expand its military role and capabilities: the report also stresses the need for a more effective and effective policy on the environment. it calls on the eu to take action to ensure that the eu is able to meet its commitments to the united nations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it called for investment in the defence market to be facilitated, clearly considering it to be an area of economic return and positive social impact. i voted against the proposals and against the report itself because i believe that, in the fields of defence and foreign policy, there has never been a 'sovereignty surrender' at the basis of every area of eu law, it can be fed by international organisations, it could end up putting the european defence system at the service of external players who, although allies, are not necessarily in line with the real interests of the union. i also believe that in a time of crisis such as the present one, other priorities must be given: the commission has already made a number of proposals to combat poverty and social inequalities.
in writing. ‒ this report shows that the union has not dealt adequately with the crises in the south and east, but it is doing so in the wrong way. the report also calls for the union to strengthen its role and its military capabilities by facilitating investment in the defence market, which is likely to be an economically viable sector with a positive social impact. we also note that instruments for the peaceful settlement of disputes and the promotion of peace based on the values on which the union is founded are not being taken into account. finally, the possibility of allowing military financing through the athena system, which in turn can be fed by international organisations including nato could end up causing heavy external interference in the european defence system which might not be in line with the real interests of the union. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the report will not have a vote in favour but only an abstention as there are some points of agreement, but as a whole it is too much a "copy and paste" of the us/nato positions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy because i believe that the international environment is increasingly unstable and that decisive and decisive action is needed. new global challenges such as the conflict in ukraine, the advance of isis, the libyan crisis and the instability of the african continent pose a serious threat to the security of the european union and therefore require a new awareness and greater responsibility among member states. too often in the past, the european union's contribution to international peacekeeping missions has been designed to give visibility to the eu itself, whereas it is necessary that these interventions be implemented in a responsible and strategic manner so as to respond to international crises more adequately. i agree with the doubts about a mission to the libyan borders. i believe that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to access the information they need. finally, i believe that cooperation between the european union, the un, nato, the african union and the osce is essential in order to adopt more effective and efficient measures to strengthen and improve the response to international and humanitarian crises.
in writing. ‒ with this vote we underline the importance of the role of the common foreign and security policy and the common security and defence policy. i stress the importance of acting as one and tackling phenomena such as immigration in a united and compact way. the territories of the individual states are to constitute the boundaries of europe and our security depends on our unity. i urge the house to take a holistic approach to the phenomenon of migration, to grasp its potential and to take up our responsibilities not only as states but also as human beings.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr danjean's report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy. the resolution comments on the 2014 annual report from the council to parliament on the common foreign and security policy, a fundamental pillar of the european union itself. i believe that this report is all the more relevant in the current european and world context, where our security is threatened by the phenomenon of international terrorism.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this report, which is necessary given the increasingly volatile and unstable security environment in the eu and its neighbours to the east and south, due to the high number of new and long-standing security challenges, in particular in eastern ukraine, syria and iraq, and the rise of the terrorist organisation isis, the libyan crisis and the terrorist threat in africa (in particular in the sahel, libya and the horn of africa). the current level of instability at the eu's borders and in its immediate neighbourhood is unprecedented since the late 1990s, when the csdp was established, and the union and its member states therefore need to adapt without further delay to new security challenges, in particular by making effective use of existing csdp tools, including through better linkage with eu external affairs tools. the union's strength and importance lie in its ability to commit resources and to mobilise simultaneously a wide range of diplomatic, security and defence, economic, trade, humanitarian and development instruments, in full compliance with the provisions of the united nations charter.
in writing. ‒ whereas the security environment in the eu and its neighbours to the east and south is increasingly unstable and volatile due to the high number of new and long-standing security challenges; whereas the conflict in eastern ukraine, together with the conflicts in syria and iraq, the rise of the terrorist organisation isis, the libyan crisis and the terrorist threat in africa (in particular in the sahel, libya and the horn of africa) pose direct challenges to the security of the union; it is therefore necessary for the union and the member states to assume greater responsibility for their security and defence through coordinated joint action in the framework of the cfsp/csdp; for these reasons i would vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i think that the growing instability in various regions to the east and south of the eu's borders is obvious to everyone, putting the security of our borders increasingly at risk. the recent economic crisis has also led to restrictions on the defence budget of the eu and its member states. we must ensure that the eu and its member states commit themselves, as the report rightly says, more financially and with a more structured and global approach. we are facing major challenges in defence and security at the moment. the eu must respond strongly and unitedly, with member states working together in better coordination and closer cooperation to respond to terrorism, conflicts in neighbouring countries, organised crime, cyber attacks, human traffickers. of course, this joint action must be part of the general framework of the common security and defence policy, under the aegis of the high representative.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy because, in view of the increasingly unstable and volatile security environment in the eu and in the neighbouring countries to the east and south, it is necessary to enable the european union to respond effectively to new security challenges by encouraging its structures and its member states to work together in a joint and genuinely coordinated action in the framework of the cfsp/csdp.
in writing. ‒ the european union was born as a peaceful market. i voted against this report, which is an unacceptable shift towards military leadership. i voted in favour of the amendments which tried to give you the opposite impression. the eu's military role is also described as complementary to that of nato: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. in this light, third countries may interpret (or experience) eu trade policies as a segment of the geopolitical interests of the united states of america, and may therefore look with suspicion at the strengthening of trade and relations with the union. it would be appropriate and in the eu's economic interests to separate the eu from nato. finally, it is a serious mistake to ask - as the report does - that the industrial base of european defence be strengthened and that member states spend at least 2% of gdp on defence. this means that the way out of the current economic crisis must be found in the strengthening of the war industry, which is inevitably linked to state contracts: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the proposed text because i find the report too focused on nato's positions on the financing of the common security and defence policy. some of the passages are agreeable, but many others seem to me to be contradictory and uncommon.
in writing. ‒ the report as a whole is too "crushed" on nato's positions and on the disappointing capabilities of mogherini. in particular, given the increasingly challenging security environment within and outside the union, characterised by new risks and threats that no member state can address alone, the common security and defence policy (csdp) needs to be strengthened to become a more effective strategic tool and guarantor of the security of eu citizens; the union must also strengthen security at its external borders. i abstained on the proposed text.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the financing of the common security and defence policy (csdp) to deplore the very modest nature of csdp interventions, especially military ones, which consist mainly of small-scale military training missions rather than substantial european contributions to peacekeeping and peace-keeping. i believe that the eu cannot afford to focus exclusively on post-crisis or exit-from-crisis tools, but must instead be able to act across the whole spectrum of crisis management. i call on the high representative and the member states to unlock the full potential of the lisbon treaty in order to increase the effectiveness and success of csdp missions and operations. finally, i believe that the next european defence council should take concrete measures to strengthen the union's defence capabilities in a way that complements nato, to support and consolidate the european defence agency and to provide support for a common industrial and technological base.
in writing. ‒ my negative vote is based on a few fundamental issues: i think that any increase in military spending is a serious danger to peace and i do not think it is right to burden the pockets of european citizens, already exhausted by the economic crisis, with military spending. finally, i am convinced that crisis situations must be dealt with by a multilateral and diplomatic approach, not by military means.
in writing. ‒ with regard to the measure we have examined on the financing of the common security and defence policy, i consider important the considerations set out in the text on the recognition of the importance of csdp interventions for the achievement of peace, while encouraging the member states of the european union to take a more determined position on conflict prevention, post-war reconstruction and the maintenance of sustainable peace in conflict-affected areas. for these and other reasons set out in the resolution, i thought i should vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the financing of the common defence and security policy. i believe that in the face of the cuts in the defence budget, a rethinking of the financing arrangements and expenditure lines in csdp operations is essential to increase cost efficiency. i also express some concern at the disparity in the eu's commitment to peace and crisis management operations around the world, of which we are a major funder, compared with civilian missions and military psdc operations, which account for only a small part of all funding and are mainly limited to small military training missions. finally, i hope that a specific model for financial rules will soon be developed, which will facilitate a more flexible and efficient performance of missions, while ensuring sound management of resources and adequate protection of the union's financial interests.
in writing. ‒ the kukan-tarand report on the financing of the union's csdp missions does not in the least match the trends expressed so far by the efdd group and m5s. the report calls for efforts to coordinate, finance and make eu military missions effective, but does not consider that the cfsp and esdp can only be conceived in the light of the union's natural propensity for soft power, for peaceful settlement of disputes and for tackling the root causes of instability: poverty and social exclusion. i voted against the proposals and against the report itself. the european union, which has no army, should not even consider implementing its own military policy. the issues deplored in the report (the lack of financial resources, the inefficiency and ineffectiveness of decision-making, the difficulties in including military missions in the union budget) simply run counter to the eu legal framework, which is not prepared to decide on or implement military measures, especially in the absence of a cfsp and a csdp that are not yet integrated and in the light of the lack of a real political union.
in writing. ‒ the kukan-tarand report on the financing of the union's common security and defence policy missions does not reflect the political priorities of the m5s. the common foreign and security policy should be designed with due regard to the role which the union has always played: a predilection for soft power. the aim must be to find a peaceful solution to the disputes, aiming above all at combating the causes of instability rather than its consequences, i.e. combating poverty and social exclusion and promoting human rights, democracy and the rule of law as expressed in the teu. i do not understand how, without an army, one can think of implementing a military policy. this is contrary to the eu legal framework, which does not provide for the implementation of military measures, especially in the presence of a common foreign and security policy and a common security and defence policy which are not yet integrated, since there is no real political union. one fact stands out: eur 190 billion is spent within the eu on defence. given the widespread social impacts of austerity in the member states, and considering that such vast resources could fuel both european recovery and resolving instability at its root by addressing social emergencies in theatres of crisis, this expenditure is folly. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this report also ignores the substantial differences between the member states and tends to impose a single line for all countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because europe needs to rethink its security and defence policy. the new agenda on migration has set aside an important paragraph on the role that this policy also plays in managing immigration. the borders between political areas must now be redrawn, or i would even venture to say provocatively that they must be eliminated. foreign policy, development cooperation policy and immigration policy must be designed in a common way. where security and defence policy does not mean armaments but above all civilian missions, it must also be strengthened through adequate funding. we cannot think of a common defence policy without common financing. what kind of union is a union where the principle is that 'each person shall bear his own costs'? the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of security and defence.
in writing. i welcomed this proposal, voting in favour, as the aim of the report is to give voice to parliament's concerns about the deficit in the csdp financing system. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. the report also calls for a review of the athena mechanism to ensure that the procedures allow the union to be more efficient in the deployment of civilian missions and military operations.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this report, which is necessary as the increasingly challenging security environment for the union, characterised by new risks and threats that no member state can face alone, requires a strengthening of the common security and defence policy (csdp) to make it a more effective strategic instrument and a guarantee of the security of eu citizens and the promotion of european interests and values. we also stress that the annual financial envelope remains too small to cover all planning, conduct and support tasks, especially as several missions are launched almost simultaneously, but that at the same time it is crucial to consider what and how much potential savings for the eu and individual national budgets would result from promoting union-wide synergies in the military sector, including in transport, training and medical assistance. the lisbon treaty provides for new provisions for the eu in the field of csdp, which have not yet been explored. the council could therefore have recourse to article 44 teu, which allows a group of member states to proceed with the implementation of a csdp mission in order to develop a faster decision-making process.
in writing. ‒ given that the security environment presents increasingly challenging challenges inside and outside the union, characterised by new risks and threats that no member state can address alone, a reinforcement of the common security and defence policy (csdp) is required to make it a more effective strategic instrument and a genuine guarantee of the security of the citizens of the european union and the promotion of european interests and values. i voted in favour of the resolution, considering that the union must strengthen security at its external borders and that there is, however, provision for adequate democratic control at the level of the union's institutions over all missions and operations, whether civilian or military.
in writing. ‒ the recent threats facing the eu on an almost daily basis call for a reinforcement of the common security and defence policy to make it a real instrument of protection and guarantee for eu citizens and to implement actions that no member state could afford to undertake on its own. i agree with what is said in the report, which i voted in favour of: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the csdp's mandate to include the military and civilian sectors. there must always be structured cooperation with regard to csdp missions and operations, with full transparency on expenditure so that the credibility of the actions taken is not clouded. the ep will be responsible for monitoring the budgeting of the various csdp operations and missions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the financing of the common security and defence policy, which expresses parliament's concerns on the eve of the june european council about the deficit in the csdp financing system. it calls for more flexibility and consistency in funding and identifies the lack of transparency in the financial allocations for missions and operations as one of the main problems. i also share the call for a review of the athena mechanism to ensure that the procedures and rules allow the union to be more flexible and efficient in the deployment of eu civilian missions and military operations.
in writing. - i voted against this report. it is the opposite of the peaceful vocation which marked europe after the horrors of the two world wars and after the commitment not to repeat the mistakes of the past. the eu should instead urgently realise that the display of muscle is useless and even counterproductive in the management of conflicts, the lasting solution of which is possible only through a strictly peaceful and multilateral approach. the alleged importance of muscularity is underlined by this report, which does not at all draw the necessary line, namely the clear demarcation between civilian missions and possible military missions, and thus opens the way to a dangerous ambiguity in the way the eu's presence is manifested in conflict zones. the prospect of the eu budget being burdened with chapters related to military expenditure, such as those for the creation of tactical groups, for the financing of the military and technological base of defence or for the extension of the athena mechanism, is also dangerous. it means taking additional resources, through taxation, from citizens and taxpayers already exhausted by an economic crisis managed on the basis of austerity, and using them for purposes that have nothing to do with increasing prosperity.
in writing. i voted against the report on the financing of the common security and defence policy (csdp) because i consider it unacceptable and irresponsible to use eu financial resources to strengthen the eu's military dimension, which is described as a strategic tool to strengthen the union's role in preventing and managing international crises. the report, after expressing serious concern at the budget cuts that have affected the defence sector in recent years, calls for more funds to be allocated to csdp policies, by strengthening the mechanisms for the automatic financing of military missions. in particular, it calls for further expansion of the common expenditure linked to military cooperation through the athena mechanism, which is currently insufficient to cover the costs of military operations. it also called for consideration to be given to attracting financing from third countries or international organisations, including nato, with which it also recommended closer cooperation. beyond the strong reservations about the foreign policy approach supported by this report, i believe that in the context of the severe economic crisis in which the european citizens are still plunged, it is absurd and a sign of grave irresponsibility to devote to militarism vital resources which could be used to combat unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, the roots of instability inside and outside europe.
in writing. ‒ the report voted today contains a worrying fact: as much as €190 billion is spent within the eu on defence. given the widespread social impacts of austerity in the member states, and considering that such vast resources could fuel both european recovery and resolving instability at its root, by addressing social emergencies in theatres of crisis, this expenditure seems utterly insane. the eu cannot think of implementing its own military policy, nor should it seek to do so. the lack of financial resources, the inefficiency and ineffectiveness of decisions and the difficulties in including military missions in the union budget simply run counter to the european legal framework, which is not prepared to decide on or implement military measures, especially in the presence of a cfsp and a csdp that are not yet integrated and in the light of the lack of a real political union. the increase in the defence budget, which would be spent on 'petersberg missions', also seems to contradict the union's integration objectives: the european union's position is that the eu should be able to take the lead in the fight against terrorism, and that the eu should be able to take the lead in the fight against terrorism. for all these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ while there are parts of the text that can be shared, there are also parts that are unclear and do not take account of the actual situation in which individual member states pay; that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the union and the member states must work to ensure that security and defence capability is safeguarded and, at the same time, that the defence industry sector is properly supported, as it is a key sector of the economy both in terms of volume and innovation capacity.
in writing. - i voted against it. this report too is too 'crushed' on the imposition of a single line for all member states. it is considered that an internal market based on common rules is necessary for the development of a competitive european defence technology and industrial base (editb) and that it is crucial to ensure the necessary capabilities and thus the security of eu citizens. the setting is wrong: the means are already there and they are those of the member states, and if the eu cannot take a stand on the relevant defence issues and merely bases its foreign and defence policy on the choices made by nato and the usa, it will be useless to create yet another bureaucratic creature. it seems to me that the purpose of this report is to give further advantages to the large industrial groups in the defence sector, perhaps outside europe.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the impact of developments in european defence markets on security and defence capabilities in europe. the report highlighted that, to be truly effective, peacekeeping and security missions under the common security and defence policy (csdp) must be able to respond quickly and immediately. the existence of a genuine european defence market is a key element in achieving these objectives. however, the european defence market is too fragmented, resulting in an increasing dependence of the european defence industry on extra-eu exports. i therefore believe that the member states should do more to achieve a more integrated european market, which would limit the duplication of defence research programmes and activities and increase european competitiveness in this field. i hope therefore that the june council, as the report emphasizes, will be able to take concrete measures and provide specific guidelines in this regard.
in writing. ‒ this report, while presenting several aspects on which i cannot agree, also highlights some important issues such as better optimisation of expenditure, the search for synergies and cooperation between states and a more careful and profitable management of the cost-benefit ratio with taxpayers' money. i therefore preferred to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is a priority not to underestimate the wave of armed conflicts and wars as well as the increasingly worrying threat of terrorism within and outside the eu. i am in favour of the union tackling the current situation through a coordinated and united approach, making sure that the articulation of budgetary policies is more geared towards strategic choices, in particular the review of the defence procurement package.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the impact of developments in the european security and defence capability markets in europe, sharing its views and believing that the increasingly serious and numerous threats posed by terrorist groups to the european union as a whole require a unified response by pooling civilian and military resources and coordinating action. in particular, in order to ensure an adequate level of security and defence in the face of the spending cuts caused by the economic crisis, it is essential to make the most of the potential synergies arising from cooperation between member states. in such a context, the establishment of a properly functioning, competitive and efficient internal market for defence products would make a significant contribution to achieving the objectives of the csdp, including by fostering research and technological innovation, which are prerequisites for the modernisation of the european defence industry. it should also be noted that increased cooperation between member states would certainly help to avoid duplication of efforts and programmes for defence equipment, which have been carried out independently by each member state, further reducing the costs of such policy and ensuring a more rapid and effective response to internal and external challenges and threats.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the impact of developments in european defence markets on security and defence capabilities in europe because it focuses on the key issue of increased cooperation between member states in this area. i believe that there is a need for greater convergence of national and european defence and security policies, especially in order to deal with the new and more modern threats from cyberspace and new technologies. it is important, especially through better implementation of the horizon 2020 and cosme programmes, that smes are facilitated in taking advantage of funding opportunities for the development of european projects related to security and defence. in this connection, i am concerned that european companies in this sector are being forced to find new markets abroad, with the result that know-how, production and intellectual property are being transferred to other countries. i join the call on the commission to step up its efforts to increase crossborder cooperation, so as to avoid the implementation of protectionist practices by some member states, and to support technological innovation, which is the key to a modern and advanced defence and security industry.
in writing. the report expresses parliament's concern at the widespread cuts in the defence budget in most member states. the lack of coordination can jeopardise the functioning of these policies, leading to the renunciation of strategic means and the loss of opportunities that could be offered by a better synergy of defence policies. the document also expresses concern at developments on the european defence market, which are increasingly open to external dependencies in the sector, at a time of increasingly challenging security conditions. for these reasons, i give my consent to this report, aware of the real need for decisive action.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this report, which is necessary given that investment in defence research and technology by all member states, as well as joint investment in defence research and technology within the framework of european cooperation, has declined at an alarming rate over the last few years, and whereas the success of peace and security missions in the framework of the csdp depends to a large extent on their ability to respond quickly and immediately, and whereas therefore a key aspect is the need to create a genuine european defence market, to eliminate duplication and reduce red tape. we are also concerned about the risks of external dependencies in the european defence sector at a time of increasingly complex and challenging security conditions, in particular the combined effect of the lack of coordination of member states' defence budgets, the continued fragmentation of the market despite the new internal market rules, the increasing dependence of the defence industry on extra-eu exports and the increase in foreign investment in the european defence sector in certain countries.
in writing. ‒ whereas the new legislation on the european defence market was introduced with the 2009 defence package and all 28 member states have transposed the new provisions into their national legal systems; whereas the crux of this new legislation is the introduction of a regulatory framework based on transparency, non-discrimination and competition that addresses the specificities of the defence sector; that the member states have agreed on the need to develop a european market for defence equipment and services; whereas the european council has called for the establishment of a security of supply regime at union level; the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east and the situation in the middle east.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which expresses parliament's concern about the widespread and largely uncoordinated cuts to the defence budget in most member states. i believe that this lack of coordination puts the security of the european union at risk, leading to the renunciation of strategic means and capabilities and to the loss of the opportunities that could be offered by the coordination of defence policies and the pooling and sharing of defence means in terms of the realisation of the eu's strategic autonomy, the security of its supplies and the defence of its citizens and its interests.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 21 may 2015. before i proceed to the approval of the minutes, i would like to inform the european citizens who are following the parliament's sitting via streaming and the european citizens who are watching from the tribunes at today's sitting that unfortunately not all members are present in the chamber, because of a technical failure which has blocked all the airports in belgium, which we hope will be able to reopen at four o'clock this afternoon. it is right, in order to protect the image of members, to inform the citizens who follow us.
the final draft agenda, drawn up by the conference of presidents on thursday 21 may 2015 in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. i have not received any request for changes to the agenda and therefore i note that the agenda remains unchanged. (the order of business is as follows)
i do not think that is on the agenda.
ladies and gentlemen, this is not the agenda.
mr boştinaru, that is not on the agenda. the president of your group will, if he wishes, take up the matter you have raised at the next meeting of the group chairmen. the formal sitting is about to begin. the subject is not on the agenda. one member of parliament raised the issue, one member of parliament answered. i think we should now give the floor to the formal sitting and listen to our guest, mr ban ki-moon. so we will pause for a minute, allowing mr ban ki-moon and president schulz to enter the chamber. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments)
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the next g7 summit is of particular importance because it is taking place in the year that europe has dedicated to development. i would therefore like to draw your attention to some basic principles relating specifically to the subject of development and security. it must at least ensure, for example, that the tragedies that have occurred in europe, such as that of the drug thalidomide, which has only recently been recognized for its seriousness, do not happen in weak areas of the world. often, pharmaceutical companies test their drugs in developing countries where this kind of activity is easier and there are fewer controls. we must avoid putting profit and profit-making ahead of respect for the person, including his health. development and security are two sides of the same coin. it is important that this parliament sends a message to those who will represent the european union at the next summit. i would therefore like this message to contain some strong indications, such as the need to strengthen the dialogue with our african partners, which would have an impact on many things, from control over the exploitation of migrants to substantial control over medical experiments, the need to strengthen the process of economic emancipation of women who, in areas of poverty and crisis, are the real resource for improvement and the need to develop a modern and concrete security strategy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what an incredible debate! i was listening to president weber earlier - it's a pity he's not here anymore - and wondering what is driving tens of thousands of young people to become radicalised. i'll try to get back to him, even if he's not there. destabilisation, inequality, poverty, exploitation and marginalisation are not the only causes, but they are the causes that are transforming it from a disease of the few to a mass epidemic. our european epidemics are two other epidemics, namely inconsistency and hypocrisy. as long as we adopt an austerity model that stifles and denies the rights of millions of our citizens, as long as our foreign trade policy is inconsistent with european principles and values, as long as we do not demand from our partners on climate change that they make concrete commitments, not propaganda bullets and cheap games, and as long as we allow ourselves not only to tolerate but also to encourage financial speculation and tax havens, inside and outside the eu, we will not be the locomotive of the world - as secretary-general ban ki-moon rightly said earlier - but we will be driving it on a dead, rusty track. commissioner, that is the message i would like you to take to president juncker and then to the g7.
first vice-president of the commission.– madam president, i have listened very carefully to the contributions from your members. many of them have already left so i will not address them individually, but i can assure you that i will take the messages back to president juncker. let me be specific on a number of issues. the commission, as you know very well, shares parliament’s ambition as far as sustainable development is concerned, as far as ambitious climate change goals are concerned, for paris and beyond. the mdgs were raised. this is something that secretary-general ban ki-moon also mentioned in his statement to you. certainly this will also be very much on our agenda. if i listen carefully, i think that much of the ambition that parliament wants injected into the g7 meeting is directed at the other members of the g7, but i would gladly pass that message on to president juncker to take on board. i also fully share the views expressed that, if we want to really do something about the position of people in the workplace and about honest relationships in the economic chain, we need to have a holistic approach to the issue and look not just at the situation outside of the european union but also at the situation in the european union. i think this is a message that came across quite strongly. where i have more difficulty in understanding the message, frankly, is with regard to russia. i think the g7 took a clear position. if there is such a flagrant violation of international law, if you simply take away part of another country’s territory, there has to be a reaction. i think the g7 has taken the right reaction, and as long as the reason for taking this reaction is not resolved i think the g7 has no other option other than to maintain that position; and i do believe that the onus here is very much on the russian federation and not on the g7. what i find surprising is that some members in this house representing parties who are always on about national sovereignty, about non-violation of borders, etc., forget completely about the violation of the borders of ukraine when russia does it. there is a slight inconsistency in that position, i would say. finally, on this point – and i cannot repeat this enough – how far do you have to be encased in your ideological position to prefer the model of president putin to the most successful peace project in european history, which is the european union? only if you are so enclosed in your ideological view – which is anti-eu – could you prefer the model that president putin has put in place for his country to the model which 500 million europeans have chosen freely and which has brought freedom and prosperity to so many people. and yes, there is a terrible crisis; yes, it is unacceptable that so many of our young people are unemployed today; yes, this is sometimes driving them to radicalisation; and yes, they have sometimes lost trust in the future. however, it is our collective task to create realistic prospects of reform, of inclusion, of democracy and openness as a solution to this problem. going towards an authoritarian path is never, ever, going to provide the solution we need to provide for our younger generation and for our future.
in writing. today we are debating the g7 summit to be held in germany on 7 and 8 june. the central themes of the meeting will be development and economic growth at global level, with a major focus on sustainable development followed by a meeting with the heads of state of african countries. i remain convinced that the growth-sustainability binomial is the compass for the policies of the european union and its member states, whose relevance is further enhanced by its strategic role and by the growing interconnections with the various international phenomena. it is enough to consider the socio-economic effects of climate change and its effects on migration flows and people's security. we have heard an important reflection on this from the un secretary-general, mr ban ki-moon, this morning. we therefore look forward to the cop 21 climate change meeting in paris next november, and hope that the work of the forum will strengthen the prospect of an effective global agreement.
in writing. the g7 summit next june must provide answers to the enormous challenges of our time. world leaders are called upon to send an important signal and renew a shared commitment to growth, development and foreign policy. the issues of growth and employment must remain at the top of the global agenda. although the economies of the advanced countries are showing signs of improvement, we need to be able to count on steady and sustained growth over the long term in order to get out of the present situation once and for all and to be able to bring down the unemployment rate, particularly among young people who unfortunately look to the future with too much uncertainty. world leaders must also commit to sustainable development that leads to greater prosperity, the eradication of extreme poverty and also the promotion of peace and security. development is a precondition for achieving greater stability in regions affected by the tragedies of war and terrorism. the current situation in parts of africa is demonstrating that the instability in those areas can no longer be considered an isolated and marginal issue, but a concrete and non-delayed problem on which world leaders must act and act now.
in writing. the g7 meeting in bavaria, under the german presidency, is particularly significant in view of the importance of the issues on the agenda. a crucial part of the summit will deal with climate protection and the fight against global warming, but also with the fight against epidemics and improving health systems and standards in supply chains. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. i hope, therefore, that the next summit, also with the european union's support, will be able to adopt a precise road map to tackle these issues, also in view of the hoped-for success of the important climate conference in paris next year. finally, in the european year of development, we must also put the issue of cooperation with third countries at the heart of this summit, aware that the great challenges of immigration and terrorism can only be met through a strong political dialogue with developing countries and countries affected by instability and war.
member of the commission.– madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr tarabella and all the shadow rapporteurs on the work done on this proposal. i understand that you did a lot of preparatory work and consultations with different parties in order to understand the real needs of those directly involved and who are affected by the proposal. i am aware that the commission’s decision to further evaluate the school schemes and recommend to the legislators to put on hold their discussions on the proposal caused some early concern in parliament, but i want to assure you that this move was not done to ‘dictate’ or interfere with parliament’s agenda. the commission as a whole wants to make sure that what we are doing is in line with the key principles of eu law-making, which is to deliver on the objectives of having better and fewer rules, and enjoy strong public support. the evaluation is in fact in line with the broader better regulation agenda which was adopted by the commission recently on 19 may. and the review of existing eu laws, simplification, greater transparency and public scrutiny will be a norm for the systematic decision-making process rather than an exception. my services have respected the will of the committee on agriculture and rural development to continue working on this proposal and provided all the necessary assistance in this process. the evaluation of school schemes as regards subsidiarity, proportionality and better regulation is in its final stages. the process has been open and transparent, and has taken due account of stakeholders’ views and the positions of all institutions. if you have had a chance to look at the draft report which was published on the commission website on 12 may, you will see that parliament’s position is very well reflected and will be updated based on your decision today. to ensure full transparency and allow the public to comment on the preliminary findings of the evaluation, the draft report is open for consultation until 3 june, and i expect that my services will therefore finalise the evaluation shortly thereafter. i will duly inform you and the council of the outcome of this process and the further steps that are envisaged by the commission. i am here today to listen to your debate and will make sure that your position on this proposal is taken on board and conveyed to the rest of the college. i am pleased to hear that the position you are voting on today largely supports the framework of the commission’s proposal. of course i am aware that a lot of work still needs to be done in the case of possible trilogues, especially once the council resumes its examination of the proposal in due course. while there are certain elements of your position which go beyond what the commission has proposed, namely on the list of core products, the milk budget and the allocation criteria, i take your position on board and i am confident that if we engage in further negotiations, we will be able to come to a reasonable outcome.
the programme for the distribution of fruit and milk in schools is a fair programme, which parliament supports with conviction. we therefore do not understand the council's position of blocking the democratic process by a ruse on the legal basis which it wants to exhaust parliament, to take away its role as co-legislator. we therefore ask commissioner hogan to put pressure on the agriculture council to maintain the same legal basis as proposed by the commission. we cannot afford to block a programme which has an ethical value, which is certainly important for our farmers, but it is also important for all european students. we in the committee on agriculture have succeeded in introducing a minimum threshold of 10% of the budget to be allocated to food education programmes. this is a first step towards increasing the educational component in the future, so that this programme can become a major educational action to encourage young people to eat healthy food, to know and to consume the traditional products of our land.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr tarabella, who has shown a great capacity for synthesis, and especially for his stubborn determination to go ahead, despite the doubts expressed by the commission at the beginning, which now seem a little more reassuring. this programme to support the distribution of fruit, vegetables and milk in schools is based on data showing that young people and children in europe are eating poorly, that obesity is increasing and that the consumption of so-called 'junk food' products is increasing. so we must absolutely react by proposing more correct diets, and where should we do that? we must do this in schools, which are the environment where, as they say, the adults of tomorrow are formed. so we welcome the financial support given to the educational programme, which cannot be without a minimum contribution that this programme itself defines. we have to make this change a permanent change, because healthy eating also means reducing what are health costs. so it is a footprint of sustainability at the european level. if we are to get down to the substance of the programme itself, i am very pleased about the inclusion of products. we put a lot of emphasis on fresh, processed, unprocessed products, because, as some of us have already mentioned, children need to understand where the product comes from, not from the supermarket shelf. in this context, the element that creates so much debate is flavoured milk. i personally find it puzzling, because this is not a natural product, it is a product rich in sugar, it is a product produced by large farms and not by small producers linked to the land which this programme is intended to help and support. so welcome this imprint, this approach, and welcome the green amendment against the inclusion and use of flavour enhancers, which is another aspect that is going to divert what our children's education is.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too am in favour of this type of initiative. i am just wondering what the bananas have to do with european fruit and why the bananas are even in the title. so if we say that the talk is for children, that there are 30 million children to reach, are bananas european? are the bananas at mile zero? it was explained why, as president tarabella said, bananas are important in the diet of children. excuse me, there's a fruit called kiwi that has the same properties as banana, because the potassium in kiwi is equal to that of banana. is it not possible that there is someone who is interested in bananas for another reason, perhaps for multinational companies or for something in particular, perhaps for aesthetic appeal? i say the banana has nothing to do with this project, the banana was eaten by adults! the banana - see, this is the banana - if an adult eats it, the child must not eat it, the child eats it in africa, eats it in south america. in europe, we eat bananas, we give the children local fruits and vegetables, not to do a favour to tarabella or the multinationals. (the speaker concludes his speech by eating a banana)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the world fair in milan is also about feeding our children. yes, because "feeding the planet" - that's the theme of expo - also means teaching our children about proper nutrition. i would like to congratulate mr tarabella on his excellent work and on the great attention he has devoted to the importance of local production in the nutritional education of the youngest. eating is good, and to eat well, one must first of all know and appreciate the agricultural products of one's own territory. these products represent the cultural, economic and food wealth of the various european regions. teaching how to eat, as well as being a cultural issue, is also and above all a health issue, because more and more science tells us that we are what we eat. the data, unfortunately, tells us the opposite, that our kids are overweight. schools can and should also teach healthy eating. this will lead to a greater awareness of our territory and the importance of our agriculture.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that parliament is once again showing a great deal more sensitivity than - let me say this - the council. i think we are dealing with an important programme. all the research, and the press reports it with great detail, tells us that the percentage of people who eat fruits and vegetables is decreasing and they tell us that diseases like obesity, childhood obesity, are increasing. so welcome to these programs that want to bring food education, which is a priority. proper nutrition means, first of all, the prevention of many diseases, starting, as i said before, with obesity. daily consumption of fruit and vegetables is important. we have to educate our children about all this, about healthy lifestyles to be combined with healthy eating, we have to educate them about conscious consumption. finally, and not least, we must teach them the importance of agriculture, of the work of the farmer, of the products of their own land. so, as has already been mentioned, many of these programmes have been made in italy and have proved to be important, also in connection with the expo. the earlier you start, the smaller the kids are, the more important the results.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are finally talking about the criteria to be met in return for aid from the european union. but the whole policy of european cooperation with africa - let us be clear - is a failure. eritrea is a striking case. it is not acceptable that we should be spending another 300 million for eritrea, when we know that these resources will not be used to improve the living conditions of the people, but will more likely be used to feed some non-governmental organizations that are not very transparent and, above all, some corrupt sectors of the public administration in that country. we are asking that, as with all european funds, which are subject to scrupulous scrutiny by the monitoring bodies, humanitarian aid projects should be subject to scrutiny. the liquidation process must start with a review of the achievement of the objectives and the transparency of the procedures. we must be clear that we are in danger of paying twice as much through mass immigration, because it has been said repeatedly that a significant proportion of those seeking help are eritreans and the injustices committed in these countries have been reminded of.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of 2015, more than 10,000 eritrean refugees have reached the shores of italy alone. tens of thousands of people flee eritrea each year, falling into the hands of unscrupulous traffickers, and thousands die on the endless journey. it is difficult to talk about this country and talk about this subject without seeing the faces of the people who are arriving by the thousands on our shores and who are sadly dead. the country has been ruled by the same ruling group for over 20 years and therefore calls for a change of government by means of democratic elections. in the face of such a high blood toll, paid by the eritrean people right on the borders of our union, we must support the development process of the country. that is why, mr president, the humanitarian aid that has been given to eritrea, in the framework of the approach that we have repeatedly defined in this house, namely that of being able to intervene in the causes, must break this silence. we must bring the government of asmara to the table of dialogue and peace, returning to discuss without taboos, without hiding anything, supporting the country in the process of democratization and keeping our values and objectives firm. i think it is also very important to be able to accompany the verification of these aids. we have to make sure that they actually reach the population and that they benefit the population. first of all, we must ensure that humanitarian organizations are present and working in the country to improve the living conditions of the eritrean people. finally, mr president, we cannot ignore the consequences of the long-standing tension between eritrea and ethiopia on peace in the region, which has reached us through a sea that has turned into a graveyard. taking responsibility for protecting and promoting peace sometimes involves the courage to take the path of dialogue wherever possible. we must break this silence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is now clear, thanks to wikileaks, how the union intends to stop the migrants who are fleeing. i 'm reading a passage: "the use of force must be allowed, especially during boarding or when operating on land". at the same time, dictatorships are being supported economically, in the hope of stopping the exodus, primarily from eritrea. last year reports were circulated about the improvement of human rights in asmara, reports that were refuted by the opposition. commissioner, please put yourself in the refugee's shoes. by reading the reports and the documents, the fugitive will make the connection. it will be said that europe either traps them in libyan camps, or hands them over to the traffickers it claims to be fighting, or returns them to isaiah afewerki. i don't know how you feel, but i know how the refugees feel, condemned to clash with the walls that europe has moved south...
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we should not be surprised that eritrea is the emblematic example of the objective contradictions in which the european union's development and cooperation policies are exercised. why a contradiction? because on the one hand we are providing more resources for the country's livelihood in an attempt to curb the exodus of refugees and to help solve the social problems that exist, and on the other hand we are doing all this in a country where human rights are widely violated. it is difficult to get out of this contradiction, because not providing resources means making the situation of the most needy groups more difficult, but providing them in this situation also means not having any guarantee that this money will reach the people in need. what then? we must introduce new constraints in the commission's proposal, and this must be in writing. firstly, development aid must be accompanied by a monitoring action by the eu delegation in eritrea and together we must call for the immediate opening of the human rights chapter. only in this context is the decision taken by the european commission acceptable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the tensions in eritrea are also of great concern to europe, which has been forced to confront the migration emergency in recent weeks. after syria, we are talking about the second country of origin of migrants, who try to cross the mediterranean sea. most eritreans have no hope for their future and detention is a very common experience, affecting a large number of individuals - women, men, boys and even children. this is a very difficult issue, which is also denounced by a united nations investigation, which highlights the many human rights violations committed in eritrea. according to the un report, the government also used tensions with neighbouring countries as a pretext to ignore human rights and to subject every aspect of the citizens' daily lives to military control. the european union must re-launch a dialogue with asmara to try to resolve the issue of migration flows at its roots, but at the same time it must make economic aid conditional on a significant increase in fundamental freedoms in the country.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, cyberattacks are certainly one of the greatest challenges to the security of the international community in the 21st century and are a powerful geopolitical weapon in the service of possible new forms of war, far removed from those to which we have unfortunately become accustomed, but no less dangerous. they increasingly threaten our fundamental rights and our way of life. unfortunately, there is a huge gap between a security system, which is essentially based on national strategies and borders, and the global nature of the network and its threats, which are increasingly less random and more and more the work of professionals behind whom criminal organizations and even governments hide. the european union must therefore move from declarations of principle by european leaders to concrete commitments to develop coherent and effective legislation. a striking example of the gap between words and deeds is the ongoing trilogues on the directive on computer network security. the commission proposal, which was significantly strengthened by the european parliament at first reading, is certainly a first step towards the creation of a common european strategy, providing for significant forms of operational cooperation and prevention and rapid response mechanisms, thus ensuring a resilient european network. unfortunately, the adoption of this directive, despite the efforts of the european parliament to find a compromise, is currently jeopardized by the attitude of the majority of member states, who are obviously still too jealous of their own security powers and too short-sighted to focus on the new global nature of cyber threats. only with common european strategies, effectively coordinated at international level, will we be able to combat this new form of warfare to ensure an open and secure digital space and to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the internet and technologies, without compromising freedoms and without affecting our habits.
madam president, i have listened carefully to the whole debate and i must say that, as a representative of my political group, and as mr schwab, who spoke on behalf of our group, i am not satisfied with the way the commission and the european council are approaching this problem, it seems to me that there are many words, many sentences, but few actions. cyberattacks are here, they're increasing, causing enormous economic damage. now they're touching the media, threatening freedom of speech, and we're not just dealing with phrases, plans and, say, theses. there must be concrete actions and concrete steps. i was involved in this security when i was a member of the czech government, and i have to say that the czech republic is very prepared for cyberattacks in this matter. in the last few days, we've been running a special lab in brno, which has just been secured by both the state on one side and the local university, and we're going to simulate individual cyber attacks and we want to be prepared for them. i believe that the key is to strengthen the resilience of critical infrastructure, prevention is the key, in my opinion. of course, it is possible to talk about what the commissioner has been talking about, i.e. strengthening repression in the form of increased money, strengthening the powers of europol, but this should not lead to a police state, i.e. let us strengthen europol, but not at the expense of the rights of our citizens. as i said, i think repression can play a role, but it's not the key. the key is prevention, and that's where we really have to catch up, we're not ready for that as europe, and it's now up to the commission and of course the council to start being very active on this issue, for the states to start talking to each other, to start cooperating, for each country to have a clear authority that monitors cybersecurity. of course, we also need to complete the legislation that is still on the table.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the digital society and the internet are the backbone of our society - the opposite cannot be said today - and above all they are instruments for ensuring freedom and also prosperity. the recent attacks on tv5monde, as well as other media outlets, by the so-called islamic state, fully demonstrate how vulnerable our computer systems are. madam president, it is unacceptable that the cybersecurity directive - like many other directives, unfortunately - is still blocked in the council because the member states cannot reach agreement. terrorist threats, however serious, cannot be an excuse for restricting the freedom of our citizens and for restricting the fundamental rights of our citizens and the media.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, much of our life, both personal and professional, is now conducted on the internet. the protection of the network of data on the network must be commensurate with the importance of all this, the importance of the information it entails. the possibility or threat of a big brother watching us, or rather spying on us, could jeopardize all the opportunities that the network holds as a great resource. cybercrime hits us as hard as traditional crime and even puts our lives at risk at times. the attacks on the media are doubly serious because they undermine freedom of expression, but above all the right to information and therefore to knowledge. cyberattacks are increasingly targeting our security, sometimes paralysing state apparatuses, and are the new frontier of terrorism. our computer systems are vulnerable, but the directive on cyberterrorism is still blocked. the european union must protect us.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, attacks on the media are not entirely new. they are often politically motivated, target highly visible victims to maximise the perpetrators' notoriety, and are embedded in a generally broad and highly complex geopolitical context. recent cyber threat studies have shown that the media is one of the most attacked sectors. the recent attack on tv5monde by isis-linked hackers, besides representing a serious attack on the foundations of our democracy, is definitely alarming and should not be underestimated just because it did not cause any casualties. this unprecedented attack has raised cybersecurity risk to new levels of severity. the new scope and breadth that attacks can reach as a direct result of the increasing dependence of connected sectors on technology and connectivity should make us think. it is therefore essential that, beyond the nis directive, the eu cybersecurity strategy and the european agenda on security, the digital single market is also designed and implemented with a 'security by design' approach... (the president cut off the speaker)
i also believe that the issue we are discussing today is a matter which really concerns a subject which speaks to us not only of violence against children, such as girls forced into marriage, but also of male violence against women, of fathers who decide to choose for their daughters. i believe, unlike my colleague from the ecr, that working towards the full implementation of the istanbul convention would be fundamental, it would also be fundamental in the context of the subject we are discussing today. i think we must work, we must work on trade agreements to urge action against this scourge in third countries, but also work to create within the union, where these cases occur, greater awareness, greater education for girls. so it's also about allocating resources to unite through education.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we hear almost daily about cases of women, including minors, being forced to marry men much older than themselves. these events find fertile ground in ignorance, poverty, illiteracy and cultural, ideological and religious beliefs that do not respect women's fundamental rights. cultural and religious motives are often the fig leaf behind which the real intentions of committing sexual abuse of minors are hidden. i am thinking of the recent case of kheda, a child bride who was forced to marry the head of the chechen police, who was over 30 years her senior. this violence is not only happening in third countries, culturally and politically distant from the european union, with which the european union itself does not hesitate to have economic and commercial relations, but also within our own borders. forced marriages, as well as incidents of female genital mutilation and other violence against women, originate in a culture different from that of the european union, but they also happen daily in our cities, much closer than we think. it is not by chance that many of these incidents are aimed at obtaining citizenship and must therefore be monitored and combated. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. commissioner, we must put an end to this hypocrisy. in this as in other situations, the european union cannot pursue economic policies and trade agreements with third countries without ensuring that they respect the most fundamental human rights, including the right of a woman to choose her own partner freely and the right of girls to be able to live their childhood and adolescence in peace.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, every child has the right to live out his childhood and adolescence in peace, in every country in the world. however, as we know, the practice of child marriage, and especially forced marriage of girls, is still widespread in some regions, including south asia and sub-saharan africa. these countries also have the highest rates of maternal and infant mortality, malnutrition, illiteracy and school dropout. therefore, despite the understanding of the different socio-cultural conditions of these countries, child marriage is a practice that is no longer tolerable and is also a violation of the legal obligations laid down in articles 12 and 19 of the un convention on the rights of the child and adolescent. i therefore hope that the commission can play a leading role in adopting legal measures and concrete measures to raise awareness among the communities concerned so that this unacceptable practice is brought to an end.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the last ten years, as many as 100 million girls have been forced into marriage before they were 18 and it is estimated that by 2050 the number of victims of forced marriage will be as high as 1 200 million, a very impressive figure. early and forced marriage is a practice that mortifies the rights of women and girls and threatens their health. this practice is a kind of mortgage on the lives of girls, who will never be free to make independent decisions and grow up with their peers, nor to free themselves from being the object of domination by others. i therefore consider this position of the european parliament to be of the utmost importance, since it recognises the importance of ending early marriage if we really want to guarantee gender equality. the commission, for its part, must develop awareness campaigns, but above all it must make use of the european union's cultural diplomacy in exchanges and agreements with third countries where early marriages are most widespread, with the aim of putting an end to this unacceptable and shameful practice.
in writing. women's rights are being violated all over the world. the most terrible violation, if we were to make a list, is the right to choose whether, when and with whom to marry, especially since the victims of this violence are not women but girls. europe can do a lot. first of all, give effective follow-up to its action plan on gender equality in development cooperation policy and link any type of aid to the objective of abolishing discrimination and the social and family subordination of women. but forced child marriages are not limited to developing countries. unfortunately, and tragically, the same logic is often applied in our countries, in europe. so we too must carry out projects to support those girls who find the courage to run away and rebel. otherwise, we risk them finding only the desperation of surrender or much worse.
in writing. all girls have the right to a childhood in which they can play, enjoy the right to education, be protected from physical or psychological harm, abuse and exploitation. the practice of early and forced marriage is not only a violation of children's rights but also a form of violence against women. it violates the right of girls to bodily integrity and to make their own decisions, for example on family planning. the 2010 eu action plan on gender equality and women's empowerment in development cooperation foresees that gender is the main or a significant objective of at least 75% of all new eu-funded projects. we therefore call on the commission to urge the member states to sign and ratify the istanbul convention. we call for strict rules to be introduced in association and cooperation agreements with third countries with a view to ending child marriages, while providing for monitoring mechanisms to eliminate the phenomenon of early and forced marriages. new information and awareness campaigns on the issue will also be needed, in partnership with other international organisations and partner countries, raising awareness among parents and community leaders.
in writing. ‒ the european programme for the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in schools has never fully functioned because of excessive bureaucracy and questionable application procedures. i believe that with some adjustments it could be a good tool for the nutritional education of children and a possibility for some fruit and vegetable and milk chains to find distribution space in our territories in collaboration with our school facilities. i therefore voted in favour of the proposed text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this decision because i believe it is essential that our children have access to a healthy and balanced diet and it is extremely important that schools, where children eat at least one meal a day, are able to provide it.
in writing. ‒ health is inextricably linked to a healthy diet. many studies show that the eating habits we acquire in childhood and early adolescence affect us for the rest of our lives. it is therefore particularly important that children and adolescents have a balanced diet to reduce the risks associated with poor nutrition as adults. a slow but steady decline in the consumption of fresh milk and fruit and vegetables among the young population in europe has been observed. if we want to reverse this trend, we must intervene with projects to accompany proper food education in schools, in particular by supporting regional products, fruit and vegetable and dairy production typical of the territories, thus accompanying the theme of health education with that of promoting the agri-food riches of the regions of the union. parliament must promote strong action which, without increasing the administrative burden on schools and local authorities, encourages the implementation of food education programmes and the distribution of milk for consumption and fresh fruit and vegetables in school canteens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because it will help our farmers, who are already affected in this specific sector by the crazy trade-off of sanctions between europe and russia. it is a pity that the socialist rapporteur did not take full advantage of the measure and wanted to reserve a share of the aid for the american banana multinationals. we should give more support to the zero-mile producers and not to the global food trade groups.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the draft law for a common legal and financial framework for milk and fruit in schools in the european union, which will reduce the administrative burden by promoting the consumption of fruit, vegetables and milk among young europeans. the european union and the member states must invest more effort and money in promoting healthy eating among children. i think it is essential to promote a balanced diet from an early age, thus fighting childhood obesity and teaching young citizens about food and its origin and to become familiar with its taste by bringing young consumers closer to local producers. another result of this vote is that it offers an alternative market for these products. i would remind you that the consumption of fruit, vegetables and milk is declining in the eu, with negative consequences for europeans, despite the fact that a healthy and balanced diet is the basis of good health.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr tarabella's report on the financing of the aid scheme for the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in schools. the vote opens negotiations with the member states on the merger of the two existing programmes for the distribution of these products: the milk quota was introduced in 1977 and the fruit quota was introduced in 2009. unfortunately, consumption of fruit, vegetables and milk is falling in the 28 member states. in fact, more than 20 million european children are overweight and adolescents eat on average between 30% and 50% of the recommended daily intake of fruit and vegetables. i think we need to promote healthy eating habits for our children.
in writing. ‒ food safety and the proper nutrition of children must be a priority for the european union. according to the latest statistics, childhood obesity is increasing steadily in all member states. to try to respond to this growing problem, we must promote healthy eating habits, which are based on the conscious choice of genuine and healthy foods. i fully share the objective of the programme adopted because it promotes the consumption of healthy food and agricultural products from a young age and, above all, because it encourages proper nutritional education through the school system. i am a great believer in this type of action and i hope that the member states will be able to allocate additional national resources to support the actions envisaged in the european programme. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the following measure highlights the desire to strengthen the distribution of dairy products and foods such as fruit and vegetables in schools to promote healthy and genuine eating, as the sharp decline in food consumption of various products is causing high obesity and other food-related problems. the aim is also to streamline the design and financing procedures so that the objective of a single heading can be achieved. i found the request interesting and purposeful for the sake of our students. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of funding the aid scheme for the distribution of fruit, vegetables and milk in schools, as there has been a dramatic decline in their consumption in recent years, especially among the youngest children. children are not being encouraged to eat these foods which are essential to our well-being, because it is more convenient to offer them only highly processed and added foods, which have the advantage of being particularly pleasant, but this phenomenon results in an increase in cases of childhood obesity. i hope that by adopting this measure it will be possible to improve the nutrition of children attending primary school, to raise their awareness of the importance of a healthy, varied and balanced diet, which does not mean that it is not appetizing, and to introduce accompanying educational measures to introduce children to agriculture. many of them have lost touch with nature and animals. this could help them to start to come closer to issues such as sustainable production and the fight against food waste.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in schools is very important for the health and education of our children. the data sadly tells us that healthy food consumption is declining, that eating disorders are increasing, and that overweight is a problem that affects our teenagers. families are not always able to provide education at the table, and schools can and should teach healthy eating too. this will lead to a greater awareness of the territory and the importance of agriculture.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr tarabella's report. today's vote calls for the merger of the two programmes into a common framework, with a view to increasing their efficiency and reducing administrative burdens. schools will thus have easier access to these resources in order to encourage the new generations to consume healthy food and to adopt good eating habits that they can adopt for life. all this, at the same time as expo 2015, whose theme is "feeding the planet, energy for life", emphasizes the role of food traditions, of education to a proper diet to promote new lifestyles, in contrast to new social diseases, such as obesity. in short, feeding the world means eating healthily and properly, and this can only start at school.
in writing. ‒ we vote in favour of strengthening the two programmes. promoting healthy eating through the distribution of fruit and vegetables and dairy products is a win-win for both students and producers.
in writing. ‒ with this proposal we want to highlight the importance of school fruit and vegetables, banana and milk distribution programmes and the reasons why they should be continued and strengthened. moreover, following the commission's decision to re-examine the proposal, it is important to express our full support for their continuation. the experience gained with the implementation of the current programmes and the conclusions of the external evaluations have shown the importance of ensuring not only the continuation but also the strengthening of the two programmes in question. at a time when the incidence of childhood obesity is increasing due to poor dietary habits, which tend to favour the consumption of processed food products rich in added sugars, salts, fats and additives, the european union cannot fail to make its contribution to the promotion of healthy eating habits and the consumption of regional and local products. in addition, in order to ensure the visibility of the programme to its beneficiaries across the union, it is necessary to provide for a common identity and a mandatory eu logo to be displayed on posters relating to the participation of schools in the programmes and on information material made available to pupils in the framework of accompanying educational measures.
in writing. ‒ given that this compromise underlines the importance of school programmes and the reasons why they should be continued and strengthened, it is important at this point that parliament takes a strong position in favour of continuing these proposals, also taking into account the reduction of administrative burdens which are a deterrent to the participation of schools, especially those wishing to participate in both programmes and who are forced to fill in two different types of forms or undergo numerous sets of checks. for these reasons, i would vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ food is at the heart of the public debate, especially in italy, thanks to expo 2015. feeding the planet is also this: we need to ensure that our children have access to the widest possible range of healthy and varied products at school, which is the environment in which children spend most of their time. proper dietary education is first and foremost about eating healthy foods, such as fruit, vegetables and dairy products. i believe that encouraging the consumption of these products from childhood can go a long way towards curbing and preventing malnutrition problems, such as obesity and anorexia, which are affecting an increasing number of children. for all these reasons i voted in favour of the proposal to open interinstitutional negotiations on the distribution of these products in schools.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution as a whole because i believe it is of paramount importance to support school programmes that promote the consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables in an educational way, contributing to the promotion of healthy eating habits and the consumption of local products. i voted in favour of the amendment tabled by the greens which called for the exclusion from school distribution of processed fruit and vegetables containing added sugars, salt and fat, added sweeteners and/or artificial flavour enhancers (artificial food additives identified by codes e620 to e650). the latter have harmful effects on the health of citizens and it would be absurd to include them in programmes which are intended to promote a healthy and natural diet. that is why i voted against the amendment tabled by the ppe, which sought to include the possibility of distributing fermented milk products flavoured with cocoa, i.e. products which are not natural and not local. finally, i voted in favour of the s&d amendment which calls on the member states to involve the local stakeholders when drawing up the national strategy.
in writing. ‒ recent studies show that the percentage of obese children is rising dangerously, no doubt due to the spread of unbalanced diets rich in junk food. that is why i welcomed the decision to open interinstitutional negotiations on the aid scheme for the distribution of fruit, vegetables and milk in schools, which will only improve the trend. it is important that from an early age, people consume nutritious, quality and above all healthy food. of the children who are properly fed today will be healthy adults. another point in the report which i particularly appreciated was the promotion of local production which, by shortening transport and the distribution chain, reduces the ecological footprint and is good for the environment. it is certainly a good report, which shows how much europe cares about the health of future generations.
in writing. i voted in favour of the school fresh fruit and vegetables scheme because i believe it is a good opportunity to improve the eating habits of the european population. the data on the increase in childhood obesity are alarming: we need to teach young people to consume healthy, quality, nutritious products. school is the best environment to spread this change. but we must ensure that this change is permanent in the long term: a healthy diet is an investment in everyone's health, including economically. we cannot therefore neglect the educational aspect of the programme, by providing adequate support for all those measures which explain to children the importance of a proper diet. i am particularly pleased that the list of products to be distributed includes processed products, but not processed products, as this confirms the desire to discourage young people from using added sugars, preservatives, sweeteners and the like. i also appreciate the strong call for the promotion of local production: a healthy diet must be good for the individual but also for the environment. consuming local produce reduces the environmental impact by shortening transport and the distribution chain.
i have news which is totally different from what mr weber has presented, at least in the last part of his speech. however, we socialists agree that this matter can be discussed in the committee on civil liberties, as we do and have done in other cases in the ordinary procedure of parliament. we trust that the discussion will be unbiased and will be based on an exclusive and honest assessment of the facts. we will not accept either the distortion of the facts or the mortification of a principle which should be dear to all sincere democrats, namely the presumption of innocence.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the regulation we are voting on tomorrow is the adoption of the financial discipline: a mathematical calculation by the commission which sets a rate of reduction of direct payments for 2015 to constitute the crisis reserve for the 2016 budget. our group will vote in favour of the draft report by mr siekierski, which we have already approved in the committee on agriculture under the simplified procedure. however, this debate gives us the opportunity to stress that the mechanism of financial discipline is the result of a reduction in the agricultural budget decided with the financial perspective 2014-2020, which left the agricultural budget without any margin to respond to crises. but as has been said, crises are becoming more frequent - as the one caused by the russian embargo shows - and prices are also becoming more volatile. it is the farmers themselves, through the reduction of the first pillar of the cap, who have to pay for these crises. in the long term, commissioner, we must therefore rethink the instruments for crisis management, new and stronger instruments which can provide a safety net for farmers and thus enable them to compete fearlessly on the global market. finally, commissioner, in the last parliament parliament had argued that financial discipline should only be applied to farmers who receive more than eur 5 000, in order to better protect small farmers. unfortunately, in the final agreement the threshold was set at eur 2 000. we continue to think that a higher threshold would be a fairer way of doing things, that it would not reduce payments to small farmers, and that it would only charge those for whom a small reduction in their cap payment would not have an excessively negative impact.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. it is a political duty to equip ourselves with effective instruments to deal with emergency situations, which unfortunately are now more the norm than the exception in the agricultural sector. the sector has been hit hard by the russian embargo and the end of milk quotas and is heavily dependent on unpredictable factors such as the climate, the effects of globalisation and international crises. the amount of the reserve for crises in the agricultural sector, which is foreseen to be included in the commission's draft budget for 2016, amounts to eur 441,6 million in current prices. i hope that if the amount is not used it will be returned to the farmers in the form of a direct payment. this is not a solution for the sector, that is clear: the agricultural world is paying for its crises, but i hope that the commission, commissioner hogan, whose initiatives i appreciate, will find the right solutions in the medium term.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of this report is to set out new strategies for equality between men and women by the european union after 2015 and its size makes it clear that there is still a lot of work to be done in the various fields. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. we are witnessing yet another attempt to forcefully introduce issues which are presented as being the responsibility of the european union, but which are and should remain the responsibility of the member states. in fact, if you read the title of this report, you would expect a certain kind of content, namely measures to promote equality between men and women, and instead we are faced with the imposition of issues that have little or nothing to do with this subject. i would like to see the reports of the committee on women's rights not periodically used as a tool to become the receptacle for the interference of one or more lobbies which should not interfere with the issues of equality between men and women. i would also like to see an explicit reference to education and feelings towards young people alongside the call for a gender-sensitive training campaign for teachers to convey the values of gender equality. why is that? because a boy who grows up with the awareness of respect for women, understanding what it really means to love them, will become a man incapable of abusing his future partner with psychological and physical violence. on the other hand, if we read the statistics, the overwhelming majority of femicides are committed by the partner. i would now like to ask you to ensure that the individual aspects of the reports do not obscure the many positive elements on which we must concentrate and work. this is not to diminish the importance of the strategies promoted to try to solve the various problems connected with equality issues.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. thank you, mr president. i do not understand what you are accusing the european union of? it is a forty-page document which highlights problems which obviously concern individual countries of the european union and the non-compliance with the general rules which the european union proposes, not in breach of the principle of subsidiarity but through the principle of coordination. and i do not understand what you are criticizing the european union for! you criticize the states which do not respect the rules of equality between men and women, which i believe are one of the founding aspects of european values.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sorry to see that the annual reports which the committee on women's rights and gender equality draws up precisely to lay the foundations for equality strategies are being used by certain political groups in this parliament to impose their own ideologies. not many months ago this parliament voted and supported the report by mr tarabella, a much more balanced report, a more concrete report, where teamwork was done. in this case, however, i take the opportunity to return to the present situation and to congratulate the shadow rapporteur, mrs gáll-pelcz, on her efforts to produce an alternative motion for a resolution, which i invite you to support and vote on tomorrow. it is surprising, as many colleagues on the left in this parliament forget the limits imposed by the treaties, that there is a whole chapter in this text on health. for us, the members of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, the development of effective and coherent strategies to eliminate all forms of discrimination against women is a crucial moment: it is a steering wheel to guide the european commission to find concrete solutions to real problems. greater cooperation would certainly have benefited women who in 2015 still have to work three months longer than a man to earn the same salary, women who have been victims of violence, would have benefited those women who still today are forced to work twice as much to occupy important positions in companies. in conclusion, mr president, the english political philosopher john stuart mill said that there is no better proof of the progress of a civilization than the progress of cooperation; i regret that in this commission and in this parliament there is no possibility of cooperation.
thank you, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen. once again we are faced with an attempt to use a report and a subject as important as equality between men and women, by forcing on certain concepts which cannot be shared. some colleagues argue that the progress and development of man and our society pass through the recognition of the right to abortion as a fundamental human right, through the modification of the concept of parentality beyond natural law, through the support of sexual and reproductive health, without explaining however what the limits actually are, how far we can go. i do not agree, and i think i really represent the views of a large number of european citizens, that there is no explanation for why parliament is so keen to support these issues, even forcing in some cases the division of competence between the european union and the member states, and fails to give definite and effective answers to the real problems facing men and women and the relationship between men and women in everyday life. so let us all ask ourselves where we are going and try to re-establish the right priorities, the right objectives of real support and progress for man and the society in which we live. let us not take shortcuts to avoid facing the real problem of everyday life. i support, of course, the epp motion for a resolution which i consider to be balanced in highlighting the main problems which our political action must face and solve. i would ask all the members of the other groups to read it very, very carefully and to consider whether they should support it. in my speech, i did not highlight the problem that so many other colleagues have raised about children. i think that perhaps in order to protect them, we too must sometimes return to being children, to understand how to live with sometimes too extreme realities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this house has often debated women's rights. unfortunately, the reality that forces us to face this debate is plain to see: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european union directive on carcinogens. i don't think one or more laws are enough to change things: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, since equality is not achieved by regulation, we must educate our sons and daughters to respect each other. we have to work for it. thank you.
in writing. the path towards gender equality is a priority that europe cannot afford to underestimate: the road to full equality and equal rights and opportunities for women and men is still too slow and i expect a breakthrough from this european legislature. combating social discrimination, fighting hard against abuse and violence, closing the gender pay and opportunity gaps, and encouraging new and more inclusive labour policies are just some of the immediate actions europe needs to focus on to deliver a higher level of protection and rights. there can be no equality unless we decide to invest in education to respect and recognize the equal dignity of all the resources that our society has, regardless of gender, religion, culture, sexual choices of the individual. to capitalize on human value and to give back freedom, consideration and respect to those who today still do not always have it: i am convinced that this objective can be the starting point for achieving europe's main growth strategies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for some months now the judiciary in rome has been conducting an investigation called "mafia capital". think about it, the european capital city, where the treaties of rome were signed, is now the subject of an investigation called "mafia capital", with contracts, a mafia dome, contracts on contracts, bribes, a power system rooted in all the parties that dominate politics in italy's capital city, rome. i ask the european parliament to make its voice heard, the president to ask the italian government why the rome municipality has not yet been dissolved because of the mafia. we must free the roman citizens, who are overwhelmingly honest working people, from the occupation of this mafia dome of businessmen from the various parties, who even speculate through mafia-infected cooperatives on contributions for migrants and nomads: what a shame! enough with mafia capital!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the istat 2015 annual report shows italy at two speeds in healthcare too. i have to say, it works in the north and it's in trouble in the south. in the south we are at the lowest per capita expenditure, only 1 700 euro in campania, while in other areas of the country it is over 2 000 euro per capita. this is a vicious circle, which, combined with the reverse statistic that many diseases are more common in the south, makes the principle of quality of life evanescent and even utopian. an inclusive and balanced level of care that is ultimately affordable for the citizen is a pipe dream in the southern regions. the sleep of reason of a planning never started has generated the monsters of collapsing structures and deaths incomparably higher than the national average, for both men and women, from all the major causes of death. i hope that the awareness will return that every day of waiting is a day of failure to help those who have the right to receive it. the commission, together with the italian national and regional authorities, will stimulate the most appropriate lines of action to ensure the universality of care by means of a health service without social and territorial disparities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the echo of the investigation that is shaking rome will have reached the heart of europe as well: for all of us, it's mafia capital. for us in the five star movement, it is the tip of an iceberg of dealing and voting and bribery that we have long denounced. the corruption of local politicians and the administrative apparatus is a burden that is placed on the shoulders of the citizens and hinders the development of the whole country. my region, sardinia, has unfortunately for decades been a feeding ground for many, many well-known, unregulated, lawless people. they're uncontrolled and usually get no punishment. i am speaking today so that all our colleagues are not dazzled by the propaganda that our executive is putting in motion to obscure what is happening in italy, but we are aware of the disaster into which our governments are dragging us.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, counterfeit products are harmful to consumers and they are detrimental to the economy, to quality production and research. we therefore consider it crucial to have a strategy for the promotion and protection of intellectual property rights which is at the same time sensitive to the possible impact on the accessibility of certain sensitive products such as medicines and which does not restrict individual rights. these are the principles on which we based our own-initiative report on the strategy for the protection and strengthening of intellectual property rights in third countries, which was voted on in the committee on international trade on 14 april. the report responds to the commission communication of july 2014 which sought, for the first time, to propose new action in this area after the failure of acta. intellectual property rights have undergone a remarkable evolution in the last decade, due to the impressive speed with which technological innovation has spread, including in emerging countries. for this reason, an effective strategy must first take account of these developments and propose coherent interventions. it is estimated that 39% of total economic activity in the european union and 26% of employment, i.e. 56 million jobs, are currently generated by companies investing in and using intellectual property rights. in the report we are putting to the vote in parliament today, we first of all appreciate the approach taken by the commission, especially because it takes account in a balanced way of the divergent interests of the holders of intellectual property rights on the one hand and of the consumers on the other. in general, no legislation works well unless all the actors involved are encouraged and involved. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. counterfeit products are no longer just luxury goods, but also everyday products such as toys, medicines, cosmetics and food, thus posing a risk to consumers' health. that is why we are asking the commission in the report to make a constant effort to involve, to be transparent, to communicate and to coordinate all the actions. the main points of our report are as follows: the need to differentiate between physical counterfeiting of trade marks and patents and infringements of copyright; the call for closer cooperation between regulators and customs; the establishment of a constructive dialogue involving the various stakeholders; the strengthening of the european observatory on infringement of intellectual property rights with full management independence; the need to adapt the price of generic medicines to the situation in the individual countries in which they are marketed in order to allow everyone to have access to the products; the need to emphasise that geographical indications are as important as other types of intellectual property, insofar as they ensure the traceability of products for the benefit of consumers and safeguard the skills of producers; a greater presence of intellectual property rights helpdesks in developing countries. in conclusion, we believe that communication is a good first step, but it must necessarily be followed up. it is also crucial that the european union should have a coherent internal regulatory framework in this area, which would ensure not only greater effectiveness but also greater negotiating power, both in bilateral relations and in multilateral discussions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, intellectual property rights have developed along the historical path of constitutional charters, are linked to the universality of rights and form the basis, with equal dignity to others, of the development of european and international civilization. to be able to preserve the originality of one's creative moment coincides with the creation of the work itself and with its translation into a good of life, abstract and concrete, and is a conquest of the western world. this need is even more evident today, when scientific, literary and artistic production are not separated from innovation and affect competitiveness, employment and cultural diversity. the health and safety of consumers are closely linked and represent the ultimate aim of scientific thinking, which must develop in accordance with the centrality of man. for example, the authenticity of medicinal and food products is constantly under attack by the underground economy and organised crime, and it is not just a 'made in europe' problem. i agree with the report and i hope that the european union will adopt a really effective action plan, which will as soon as possible renew the legal framework of reference which no longer meets the modern need for protection and which also includes third countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of intellectual property is certainly very important, but i think it is equally important to know what kind of intellectual property we are talking about. and we think that this report is in part acceptable, but we also think that it contains some worrying elements. the idea that we should impose our intellectual property standards on third countries may sound correct, and in part it is, but if we do so to give european companies the green light to relocate and produce in those countries, taking jobs away from an already crisis-ridden europe, we are certainly not doing the citizens a favour. also the issue of copyright on the internet is very thorny, obviously i don't want to encourage piracy in any way, but i can't even accept new mega upload cases, like when a site was closed by the office because it hosted, but not only, some pirated files. i would also like to see a somewhat stronger position taken on the question of access to medicines. we must ensure that intellectual property rights are not a shield behind which large corporations hide their big interests. and this resolution, it seems to me, has in this case squandered an opportunity.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after a year of work here i am more and more convinced that what kills not only the image but also the effectiveness of our action is the opportunistic and selective application of european principles and values in foreign policy, not in accordance with reality but instead of geopolitical interests, realpolitik and other interests to be achieved. this report repeatedly mentions violations of democratic principles, the rule of law and human rights in russia. it highlights corruption and the endangerment of freedom of expression and information in the country. clearly, many of these criticisms are absolutely true, but i wonder why, for years, they have always been ignored and deliberately forgotten, when relations with russia were so convenient for many of our states, that i remember many beautiful photos of our former prime ministers and presidents holding hands with putin. i wonder why, you forget to point out that as far as corruption and discrimination against certain categories of the population is concerned, ukraine today is certainly no better off than russia? and this phenomenon has happened, also with libya and i could mention gaddafi, i could mention many other cases. and i look forward to working with you later on our future report on our relations with china because i will be very interested to see if all these great champions of human rights and democracy will be there when i talk about tibet, yugur, the death penalty and systematic violations of democracy and human rights in the asian giant. i want to see whether there will be all these advocates of conditionality, of the strict application of conditionality, or whether business as usual will continue in that case. china is one of the main beneficiaries of our relative policy, since instead of seeking balance, we have pushed russia, its traditional adversary and now its increasingly close energy partner, into its arms. and on energy, i would like to say to the rapporteur that when we talk about european resilience, i would remind him that the only possible solution is based not so much on diversification but on a real new deal in renewable energy, which would guarantee our energy independence. i will always be on the side of those who want genuine conditionality, always, and not on the side of those who have empty memories at their command, nor on the side of those who are looking for excuses for a mad arms race, depriving our peoples of indispensable resources, especially those in the mediterranean, who are now on their knees because of the crisis and the sanctions that are hitting us more than russia. the real war is the most dangerous one we have in our house: the war against poverty and exclusion. (the president agreed to answer a question with a blue card, rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a blue-card question. dear colleague, thank you for your question. i am not so much criticising the report itself, as i am criticising the general approach which the european union is taking in its external relations. in my view, there is no other solution than a diplomatic solution based on soft power. but i think we say that in this report, but our actions are not at all in line with that and many of our member states are simply asking for more budgetary expenditure within nato and more military commitment. i do not think that this is in the interests of our peoples and it is certainly not in the interests of... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no great european vision of relations between the european union and russia, which is essential for the future of ukraine itself and our friends and colleagues in the eastern countries. what advantage do they have from being crushed in the near future at the border of a russia that feels threatened? italy is paying a heavy price for the error of these sanctions. the confederation of my country says enough of these sanctions! this is slowing our economy down. we italian patriots say enough of the sanctions, but we also disapprove of the sanctions against diplomats and especially against our colleagues. it is a wrong policy of reciprocal retaliation, but as italian patriots we welcome president putin to the expo in milan tomorrow. welcome to the club. it is time for more effective policy, federalist thinking wins, not the eurosceptics who say: you're wrong. the heirs of spinelli's thought say we need an inclusive policy, the federalist thought says enter, enter not out. the president withdrew the floor to the speaker.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are critical of putin's russia for all the reasons listed in the landsbergis report. as the european union, we cannot afford to accept lightly the violation of the principle of territorial integrity of which ukraine is the victim and on which the world balance is based. in this sense, russia must demonstrate the will to respect the minsk agreement, a will which is still largely lacking. the five-yearly conference on the revision of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, a subject too often ignored, has unfortunately ended with nothing. the united states and russia also exchanged strong accusations. i am convinced that the improvement of relations between russia and the european union must also necessarily pass through the nuclear issue. let us think of the important role russia is playing in the negotiations with iran, which have reached their crucial stage. the rebuilding of a lasting relationship of friendship and mutual respect with the russian people is therefore also fundamental to global security issues. the european union must play a leading role in the resumption of dialogue and diplomatic action, despite the latest regrettable incident on the blacklist, against which the rotten apples have also been taken.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the daily report of russian actions seems to be aimed at destabilising the international democratic community. i am deeply concerned that russia is now openly acting as our rival and pressing hard on europe's borders. i agree with the motion for a resolution which does not dismiss attempts to re-establish dialogue, at least on shared values and principles such as democracy, the rule of law and common interests. i believe that the european union is moving in two directions: the diplomatic firmness that any partnership is only possible if the russian authorities comply with their international and legal obligations and the awareness of the energy vulnerability and the need to have autonomous resources; a regime of mutual trust based on democracy, territorial sovereignty, respect for human rights and the rule of law should be re-established through dialogue and cooperation; the european union must also develop a strong european energy union, with a free and transparent market and an appropriate share of renewable energy, so that energy is not a key instrument of russian foreign policy.
in writing. ‒ during the negotiations on the new cap, i was firmly opposed to the 'financial discipline' mechanism which underpins the siekierski report on the 'rate of adjustment of direct payments for the calendar year 2015'. i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on the rules of procedure, the verification of credentials and immunities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important to finance an emergency fund for the agricultural sector, which will enable this key sector of the european economy to overcome crises more easily.
in writing. - i abstained on the measure. i am still opposed to the principle that farmers always pay for market crises.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council fixing the adjustment rate for direct payments provided for in regulation (eu) no 1306/2013 for calendar year 2015. the european agricultural sector has been hit on several occasions by serious crises affecting both agricultural production and the distribution of products. i am thinking for example of the russian embargo, the end of milk quotas and, more generally, unpredictable factors such as climate and globalisation, which often have a negative impact on the sector. i think that in these cases the establishment of a reserve is of paramount importance. the amount of the reserve for crises in the agricultural sector, which is foreseen to be included in the commission's draft budget for 2016, amounts to eur 441,6 million in current prices. in any case, it is desirable that the commission should take action in the medium term to set up a fund for crises in the agricultural sector, which would be made up of funds not drawn from the community's agricultural budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr siekierski's report because i believe that farmers must be supported, also because of the serious crisis in the sector. the first budgetary estimates for direct payments and market related expenditure in the draft budget for 2016 indicate that the net balance available for eagf expenditure is unlikely to be exceeded. i therefore think that the application of financial discipline is inappropriate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure under consideration concerning the fixing of the adjustment rate for direct payments for the calendar year 2015 as provided for in regulation (ec) no 1306/2013. in order to support the agricultural sector in the event of a crisis, a reserve is to be established by applying, at the beginning of each year, a reduction to direct payments through a financial discipline mechanism. the amount of the reserve to be included in the commission's draft budget for 2016 shall be eur 441,6 million. the adjustment rate for direct payments shall apply only to direct payments exceeding eur 2 000. in bulgaria, croatia and romania direct payments are being phased in during the calendar year 2015. the financial discipline will therefore not apply in these member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe it is important to be able to support the agricultural sector with a type of additional aid in the event of periods of crisis even more serious than those we are already experiencing. to do this, it must be possible to create a reserve, which is obtained by applying a reduction to direct payments at the beginning of each year through a financial discipline mechanism. as regards 2015, the measure provides that the amounts of direct payments to be granted to a hypothetical farmer for an aid application submitted for the year 2015 are to be reduced by 1,393041% in all member states except bulgaria, croatia and romania.
in writing. ‒ mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr siekierski's report, because it specifically provides for the creation of a reserve of eur 441.6 million to provide additional support to the agricultural sector in the event of serious crises affecting the production or distribution of agricultural products. in addition, the report provides for a reduction in direct payments through a financial discipline mechanism and is applicable only to payments exceeding eur 2 000 to be granted to farmers in the corresponding calendar year. i hope that this financial instrument will bring benefits to the agricultural sector, which is unfortunately suffering from a number of factors such as the russian embargo, the international crisis and the climate.
in writing. ‒ this is the reserve provided for in the cap in the event of a serious crisis affecting the production or distribution of agricultural products. this reserve is, however, subsidized by a re-modulation of the direct payments of the farmers themselves, from whom a percentage is then deducted. i cannot vote in favour because we are opposed to the principle that the farmers themselves should pay 'twice' for market crises.
in writing. i welcome the motion for a resolution by mrs maria noichl on the new european union strategy for equality between men and women. the path, though still too slow, towards gender equality is a priority that europe cannot afford to underestimate. the fight against social and sexual discrimination, which unfortunately still has alarming levels in the eu, is the only way forward to meet the commitments that europe is proposing and is proposing, such as growth and development strategies, overcoming the gender pay and opportunity gap, incentives for the growth and renewal of the labour market, and overcoming the contingent moment of economic crisis, also by contributing, also at the apex level, women's energies and skills, fighting all kinds of physical violence, mortification and sexual intimidation. there can be no development unless we decide to invest in education to respect and recognize the equal dignity of all the resources that our society has, regardless of gender, religion, culture, sexual choices of the individual. to capitalize on human value and to give back freedom, consideration and respect to those who today still do not always have it: i am convinced that this objective can be the starting point for achieving europe's main growth objectives.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have decided to vote in favour of the report by mr siekierski on the adjustment rate for direct payments for the calendar year 2015. specifically, the report provides for a reduction in direct payments through the financial discipline mechanism of 1.393041% in all member states, applicable only to payments exceeding eur 2000. i believe that it is the duty of this parliament, in order to give strong support to the agricultural sector, to adopt effective financial instruments to deal with emergency situations for a sector which is today being put to the test by a number of factors, including the russian embargo and the end of milk quotas, and which is dependent on unforeseeable factors such as climate factors and international crises.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation fixing the adjustment rate for direct payments. i think it is appropriate to apply the adjustment rate only to payments for which aid applications have been submitted in the calendar year in which the financial framework applies, irrespective of when the payment is paid to farmers. this will ensure equal treatment for all farmers.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council sets the adjustment rate reduced to 1,393041% of direct payments under agricultural support schemes exceeding eur 2 000. i believe that this is a necessary measure, which will allow the creation of a financial reserve to be drawn on in the event of emergencies in the agricultural sector. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the report by mr siekierski.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this commission proposal which refers to the power, conferred on us by article 25 of regulation (eu) no 1306/2013, to provide for the establishment of a financial reserve with the objective of offering additional support to the agricultural sector in the event of serious crises affecting the production or distribution of agricultural products. in this connection, we consider it necessary to apply a reduction in direct payments through the financial discipline mechanism provided for in article 26 of the same regulation. the amount of the reserve for crises in the agricultural sector to be entered in the commission's draft budget for 2016 will therefore be eur 441,6 million in current prices. to cover that amount, the financial discipline mechanism will have to be applied to direct payments under the support schemes listed in annex i to regulation (eu) no 1307/2013 of the european parliament and of the council for the calendar year 2015. we believe that this procedure is an indispensable instrument for ensuring equal treatment for all european farmers.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this regulation is to implement the provisions of article 26 of regulation (eu) no 1306/2013 on the financing, management and monitoring of the common agricultural policy and article 8 of regulation (eu) no 1307/2013 on direct payments to farmers under the support schemes for 2014-2020. the proposal provides that the amounts of payments under the support schemes referred to in annex i to regulation (eu) no 1307/2013 exceeding eur 2 000 to be granted to farmers for aid applications submitted for calendar year 2015 are reduced by 1,393041% for all member states except bulgaria, croatia and romania. in the light of the foregoing, i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mrs siekierski's report because i think it is appropriate, in order to ensure equal treatment for all farmers, that the adjustment rate should only apply to payments for which aid applications have been submitted in the calendar year in which the financial framework applies, irrespective of when the payment is paid to the farmers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulation fixing the adjustment rate for direct payments. i think it is right to provide additional aid to a sector such as agriculture, which is of primary importance in the eu, in the event of crises that may reduce production and hence the distribution of food. as is clear, this is a sector subject to a certain randomness, due mainly to climatic factors and available resources, and it is appropriate that an adjustment rate for direct payments be fixed in the event that the forecasts for financing measures falling within a given financial year may exceed the level of the applicable annual ceilings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the siekierski resolution on the adjustment rate for direct payments for calendar year 2015; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption. it was decided that the european union would provide for a reduction in direct payments from the previous budget line each year to transfer this amount to the crisis fund.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to abstain because i am puzzled by the mechanism behind the adjustment rate, which aims to recover resources to cope with any crisis in the agricultural sector by reducing direct payments to farmers and therefore always passing the cost of any crisis on to the agricultural sector itself.
in writing. ‒ in order to support the agricultural sector in the event of serious crises affecting the production or distribution of products, provision is made at the beginning of each year for the establishment of a reserve by applying a reduction in direct payments. the proposal to amend the rate of adjustment of the financial framework for the calendar year 2015 adopted today will serve this purpose. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this measure, in the hope that in the next financial year the funds allocated to the crisis reserve and which have not been used will be made fully available to farmers in the form of direct payments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation fixing the adjustment rate for direct payments under the common agricultural policy for the year 2015. this is the annual exercise aimed at creating a reserve to provide additional support to the agricultural sector in the event of major crises affecting the production or distribution of agricultural products. this reserve is derived from the reduction, at the beginning of each year, of direct payments through the financial discipline mechanism: to cover the amount of the reserve in the draft budget of the european commission for 2016 eur 441,6 million a reduction of 1,4% is provided for, which will apply to payments above eur 2000. while the creation of the reserve is a positive element of the new cap, i would like to point out, however, that the mechanism of financial discipline stems from the reduction of the agricultural budget under the financial perspective 2014-2020, which left the agricultural budget without any margin to respond to unforeseeable events, such as natural disasters or high price volatility. it is therefore necessary to consider new and more effective crisis management solutions that can provide a safety net for farmers to enable them to compete in the global market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is essential that parliament takes a serious position on the issue of gender equality and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. the world is changing fast and we must give women and gay people the dignity they deserve.
in writing. ‒ the european institute for gender equality has found that despite steady progress towards the implementation of gender equality in recent years, there has been a backlog of progress towards the europe 2020 targets. women in the eu currently have an average unemployment rate 12.5% higher than their male colleagues, and a salary and pension income 20% lower; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union. how long are we going to tolerate this inequality? our parliament must urge the commission to revise the strategy to achieve the goal of full equality by 2020: only by working hard can we succeed. the right to a protected maternity, to self-determination of one's choices and the use of one's body, the right to effective equality in pay and in the possibilities of work, career and political representation, the right to respect and equality in every aspect of public and social life are not unattainable utopias but fundamental human rights, which will become a reality if the european ruling classes work in this direction. let's do this and we won't have to come to 2020 with the shame of having failed again.
in writing. - i voted against it. without prejudice to abortion rights which i believe are for women to evaluate, the measure is designed to subvert the traditional family to be voted on.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the eu strategy for equality between women and men after 2015. with this resolution, parliament has sent a strong signal to call for the new post-2015 eu gender equality strategy to include clear objectives, concrete actions and more effective monitoring to make progress in the fight against discrimination in the labour market, education and decision-making. in addition - and i think this is an absolutely important point - the resolution calls on the commission to propose new laws containing binding measures to protect women from violence (including new forms of violence such as cyber-harassment, cyber-stalking and cyber-bullying) and calls on member states to ratify the istanbul convention as soon as possible. in our continent we still have to deal with a percentage of 20-25% of women who have been physically abused at least once in their lives, while there are about half a million women who have even been subjected to genital mutilation, right here in europe. the european union can no longer limit itself to simply denouncing the situation. it must ensure that european legislation on gender equality is actually respected.
in writing. ‒ the report, the result of careful work, lays the foundations for the new strategy for equality between men and women, a characteristic element of any society that wants to call itself mature. the report covers a wide range of issues, from the fight against violence against women to the different needs of women in relation to work, the right to health as a universal right and sexual and reproductive rights. it is important that the european union recognises these needs and takes them on board, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ my vote on the draft report on the european union strategy on gender equality is a negative vote. and it's a painful no, because i know perfectly well that, in fact, equality between men and women in all areas of life is progressing too slowly. but this equality will never be achieved by devaluing the value of the family, which is a serious cultural backwardness in europe. it is not through the recognition of gay families or of same-sex parenting that men and women will be guaranteed the same rights. it is not by a law that prevents adopted children from knowing their natural parents that women will be more like men, nor by being able to abort unwanted children. for all these reasons i could not vote in favour of this resolution. equality between men and women is achieved through legislation that protects life from conception to its natural end, through aid to families, to working mothers, by establishing equal pay, by promoting the reconciliation of private and professional life, by guaranteeing equality in education. that is what every member state should do, even without being told to do so by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the report comes at a crucial moment for the european union, as this year marks the 20th anniversary of the adoption of the beijing platform for action and the revision of the millennium development goals, and the report presents data on progress made in gender equality worldwide. the eu objective is to make steady progress towards effective equality between women and men, whereas, unfortunately, traditional gender roles and stereotypes still profoundly influence the distribution of tasks in the family, in education, at work and in society in general. according to european commission figures, only 5% of ceos in the eu are women. the next five years are crucial for a more concrete and thorough implementation of this strategy in all areas, which is part of a larger set of equalization objectives that the european union must be able to guarantee to its citizens, such as ethnicity, social class, sexual orientation, religion, nationality or age. the report sets out key objectives for the implementation of rights recognised by the eu treaties. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the measure in question because it contains sensitive and controversial provisions on ethical issues that would need to be explored further. the ppe group has therefore decided to vote against the eu strategy on equality between men and women as it is not in line with the group's guidelines.
in writing. ‒ i believe that gender equality is a serious issue and as such should be treated without ideological bias. it is true that, unfortunately, in 2015 we still have to remember that human beings have equal rights regardless of their gender. however, at least as regards the european parliament's powers, it is also worth recalling how some issues have been forced into this report because they are not directly relevant. i have decided how to vote on the basis of these considerations.
in writing. ‒ once again we are faced with the attempt to use a relationship and a subject as important as equality between men and women, forcing some concepts that cannot be shared. some people here argue that it is the progress and development of man and our society that should provide for the right to abortion as a fundamental human right, to change the concept of parenting beyond natural law, to ensure sexual and reproductive health, without explaining, however, with what limits. i think that the european parliament should try to give a definite and effective answer to the real problems of everyday life, such as the situation of young people who have no jobs or the means to start a family and have children. we should re-establish the right priorities in our political agenda.
in writing. ‒ the report presents the european union's strategy for achieving the main objectives on equality between women and men after 2015. the right to equal treatment is a fundamental right recognised by the eu treaties, emblematic and deeply rooted in european society, essential for the further development of european society, and should apply in legislation, practice and case law as well as in real life. i therefore voted in favour of this report. the eu has historically made important strides towards women's empowerment and gender equality, but in recent decades there has been a slowdown in policy action and reform across the union in relation to gender equality. i therefore believe that the next strategy will have to give new impetus and take concrete action to strengthen women's rights and promote gender equality. i am voting in favour of the noichl report because it calls for access to information, prevention, safe, effective and accessible contraception, safe and legal termination of pregnancy and sterilisation, and assistance for adoption.
in writing. ‒ the report comes at a crucial time, twenty years after the adoption of the beijing platform for action and the revision of the millennium development goals, to assess progress on gender equality worldwide. unfortunately, everything suggests that the results will not be fully satisfactory and that progress is still too slow. european policy must no longer be limited to setting itself objectives which, however ambitious, remain ambitious. it must instead produce and develop effective, coherent and realistic strategies to eliminate all forms of discrimination against women and men in their diversity. the data is still disappointing. one in three women in the eu has experienced psychological or sexual violence at least once in her life after the age of 15. 74.2% of men are currently employed, compared with 62.5% of women. and the same is true of other forms of discrimination. i voted in favour of this report because i think it is time for a bold step forward, to put the union at the forefront of the battle to abolish all forms of discrimination.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls on the commission to develop a new specific strategy for women's rights and gender equality in europe, aimed at creating equal opportunities, with a view to ending all forms of discrimination against women in the labour market. the new strategy should strengthen the rights of different groups of women, including women with disabilities, migrant and ethnic minority women, roma women, older women, single mothers and lgbt women. it must raise awareness in society of the problem of violence against women, as well as of prevention, access to justice and support for victims. the resolution also calls on the commission to recognise the importance of sexual and reproductive rights, to work towards the implementation of sex education programmes in schools and to provide counselling and contraceptive facilities for young people. it calls for accessible services in the areas of sexual and reproductive health, abortion and safe and legal contraception. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment.
in writing. ‒ the title is misleading in view of the content of the text. i strongly condemn all forms of violence, especially against women. i am voting against the text because it has been instrumentalised by inserting a debate on ethical issues which are detached from the subject in question.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has once again had to vote on a report containing a number of positive elements with a view to achieving equality between men and women, but irreparably tainted by the inclusion of insidious and unacceptable provisions. in this report too, the european parliament shows that it has forgotten the value and the meaning of the family. in a europe which wants to be the standard-bearer of universal rights, the only rights forgotten are those of children. i was therefore forced to vote against this report, not only on the substance, in that we strongly support the right of a child to grow up in a family with a father and a mother, but also on the technical side, in that family law falls within the competence of the individual member states and not of the european parliament.
in writing. the path towards gender equality is a priority that europe cannot afford to underestimate: the road to full equality and equal rights and opportunities for women and men is still too slow and i expect a breakthrough from this european legislature. combating social discrimination, fighting hard against abuse and violence, closing the gender pay and opportunity gaps, and encouraging new and more inclusive labour policies are just some of the immediate actions europe needs to focus on to deliver a higher level of protection and rights. there can be no equality unless we decide to invest in education to respect and recognize the equal dignity of all the resources that our society has, regardless of gender, religion, culture, sexual choices of the individual. to capitalize on human value and to give back freedom, consideration and respect to those who today still do not always have it: i am convinced that this objective can be the starting point for achieving europe's main growth objectives.
in writing. ‒ it is a fact that equality between men and women in all areas of life is progressing only slowly. in adopting this report, we called on the commission to develop and adopt a new specific strategy for women's rights and gender equality in europe, which aims to create equal opportunities, with a view to ending all forms of discrimination against women in the labour market and all forms of violence against them. i strongly support and believe in the importance of fighting violence against women and girls. i call on the european union to consider joining the istanbul convention. in today's vote we called on all member states to sign and ratify the convention and through the new strategy to take active action to end violence and injustice against women.
in writing. i have decided to give a negative opinion on mrs noichl's proposal. the report deals with matters which are the responsibility of individual member states and i therefore believe that, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the national level is the most appropriate place to discuss and legislate on these matters. i am a strong supporter of equality between men and women, but some paragraphs in the report deal with sensitive issues, but not directly relevant to it. with my colleagues from the epp we had prepared an alternative text, which dealt with these issues from different angles, but unfortunately this proposal did not receive the support of the majority of the house.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the text of the resolution on the eu strategy for gender equality, although i have always been an active defender of the principle of equality between men and women as a fundamental cornerstone of the basic principles enshrined in law. the concept of the family as the place where relations between men and women take place is a fundamental value to be defended and strengthened. the family must continue to be the most common social unit in a social system. the resolution adopted has no binding force on the member states of the european union, since the regulation of family law is the exclusive responsibility of national governments.
in writing. ‒ although i have always been a strong supporter of women's rights, in view of the prospect of a wider integration of women into the economic and social life of the community, i have decided not to support the report signed by mrs noichl. in my view, the text of the document is not fully consistent with the purpose it should have pursued, which is to provide the european commission with guidelines for the definition of a concrete and far-reaching strategy for gender equality for the coming years. while i agree with the references to the need to strengthen the european union's efforts on equal pay for men and women, to combat gender-based violence, to the need to improve the degree of women's participation in decision-making, i believe that the paragraphs in the text which deal with matters which, as laid down in the treaties, fall within the competence of the member states have undermined the reliability of this report. the rapporteur's lack of willingness to engage in dialogue during the drafting of the document has, in my view, contributed to undermining its quality.
in writing. ‒ this report sets important objectives for the eu and the member states. the risk of backsliding on women's rights is always lurking: in times of crisis, such as the economic crisis of recent years, it is the weaker parties who suffer the most, and unfortunately this has been the case for women in many areas, first and foremost in the field of employment. the only way to keep up is to keep walking, and to keep walking. this is our role and, more generally, the role of the institutions: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. there are many things to do: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of workers from carcinogens at work. these are actions that not only help women, but that serve all of us to create a better environment, not just a more equitable one, but a more prosperous one, a richer one. and it is precisely where some hesitate or lag that the eu must lead, continuing to raise the bar of rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the noichl report because i found many controversial aspects in it. first of all, when you read the title, you expect to be confronted with a certain type of subject which has been my personal political battle for several years, namely the promotion of equality between women and men. none of that. once again, questions have been inserted which have little or nothing to do with this subject. this is yet another move to tackle matters which fall within the strict competence of the member states, and on which the union can only intervene when its action is considered more effective than that undertaken at national, regional or local level. for this reason, and since this is not the case, i think it is appropriate that the principle of subsidiarity be respected.
in writing. ‒ gender equality cannot be reduced to the mere recognition of equal rights, but must above all translate into the vigorous application of good practices that reduce the discrimination suffered by women in everyday life. these disparities are most evident in the workplace, where women continue to earn less than their colleagues. i therefore join parliament's call for a new directive to reduce the pay gap and encourage women's participation in decision-making, including through the introduction of leave measures for both parents. i share the ambitious proposals in the report on equality between men and women and therefore voted in favour. europe can become a voice for gender issues with a new strategy that includes provisions for the prevention and condemnation of all forms of violence against women and the promotion of educational programmes aimed at combating the stereotyped image of women.
in writing. ‒ despite the work done by the rapporteur and the changes in the committee, i had to vote against, because of the intransigence shown by the hall in wanting to discuss the point on lgbt parenting.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report (in any case it is an own-initiative report with no legal value for the member states), not because it is against equality between men and women, which i certainly support, but because i found the report unclear and trampled on the value and meaning of the traditional family. the report also goes against the principle of subsidiarity, since the matters dealt with in family law are the responsibility of the member states and therefore of national competence only.
in writing. ‒ i am proud to have voted 'no' to a european resolution that is purely and obscurely ideological in content: i am convinced that equal dignity is given by difference, not by a type approval that is sold as equality. since it is not my intention, nor, i hope, that of any member of the european parliament, to discriminate against anyone, i personally feel that at a time in history when the economies of many european countries are under severe strain, it would have been wiser to present, as the epp did, a document which would safeguard the rights of women, but with particular attention to families. in any case, i welcome the firm position of the epp in the face of this text, which in my opinion is bad, because instead of celebrating the uniqueness of women and their irreplaceable role, it aims to achieve gender equality by forcibly eradicating their natural differences.
in writing. ‒ i chose to vote against because i consider the measure as a whole to be inadequate to the stated aims.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support the development of a new european strategy for gender equality to combat discrimination based on sex and to ensure equal opportunities for men and women. i have decided, however, to vote against the own-initiative report of the committee on women's rights and gender equality because many controversial points have been inserted which are not only the exclusive competence of the member states but also fall outside the original objective of the proposal. i'm talking about adoption and parenting for lgbt couples, for example. in this respect, the text is the result of a radical ideological position which does not reflect the divisions in european civil society on this issue. i think that by adopting this report, instead of promoting the fight against discrimination, we are 'discriminating' against those who believe in the value of motherhood and the complementarity of men and women.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the european union strategy for equality between women and men because i believe that better defined policy guidance is needed for policy-making on this issue for the period 2015-2020. clear objectives, concrete actions and more effective monitoring are needed to make progress in the fight against discrimination in the labour market, education and decision-making. the data show that the eu is still a long way from achieving equality: 33% of women have suffered physical and/or psychological violence, while the average wage gap in europe is 16% and the pension gap is 39%. in this resolution, parliament therefore stresses the need for specific action to strengthen the rights of disabled women, migrants, women from ethnic minorities, roma women, elderly women and single mothers. particular attention is then paid to the need to ensure a balance between family and work life, stressing the importance of flexible forms of work which can enable women and men to combine work and family life according to their needs.
in writing. ‒ the road to achieving effective gender equality is still long and requires a 360-degree approach. i voted in favour of the report, which offers wide-ranging suggestions relating to - but not exclusively - work, social and political life. in particular, this report is based on the idea that women must have control over their sexual and reproductive rights through easy access to contraception and voluntary termination of pregnancy. gender quotas can also play a role in the exercise of effective gender equality: in particular, in the boardroom, in the world of entrepreneurship and research, they can be a necessary stimulus to overcome the current disparities in pay, access and career opportunities. i voted against the amendment proposed by the ppe, which proposed a deliberately reduced and reductive approach and which, among other things, completely omits the issues of quotas, sexual and reproductive rights, contraception and abortion. the 'philosophy' implied in this amendment shows that, although it is difficult to find anyone who is openly opposed to gender equality, there are still those who are putting obstacles in the way of achieving effective equality.
in writing. ‒ the commission and the european parliament must be ever more committed to gender equality, which is not only a fundamental value of our being together in the eu, but also a means of rebooting the european economy. i fully share the commission's intention to continue to promote equality in all eu activities, both internal and external, as required by the treaty. much remains to be done and our efforts must be directed, as this report indicates, towards achieving economic independence, the elimination of gender-based violence, the defence and promotion of women's rights and gender equality worldwide. the issue of work-life balance must also be addressed, access to the labour market improved through the provision of care facilities and the effective introduction of family leave and flexible working arrangements, with particular attention to the participation of men. we must also reduce and eliminate the pay gap and we must not ignore the large number of women living in poverty and social exclusion. europe can be the driving force for the advancement of women's rights worldwide.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this important report because equal rights are one of the foundations of modern democracy. our union will not be truly complete until everyone can enjoy equal rights. i particularly welcome the reference to 'lgbti families', the first step towards a real and substantial recognition of the rights of all european citizens.
in writing. ‒ we are calling on the commission to develop a comprehensive strategy, covering at least five years, addressing gender equality issues and in particular women's rights. i therefore voted in favour of the report because i think it is necessary for the commission to present as soon as possible a directive which specifically addresses the gender gap in pay and pensions, which promotes the reduction of stereotypes through education and which provides for targeted actions for all women in europe who suffer from multiple discrimination. i would like to conclude by renewing my call on the commission to introduce measures to reconcile work and private life.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the report on the 'strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries' was negative for several reasons. firstly, this report contains several very different aspects which, in my view, should be dealt with separately because they present different problems: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. secondly, i think that the approach adopted and followed towards developing third countries is wrong. the latter are required to put in place strict forms of protection of intellectual property, whereas these countries would need looser forms of protection, as several studies have shown, in order to allow knowledge and know-how to circulate more easily and freely. this would be a real step towards their emancipation and development. on the contrary, it has a neo-colonial attitude, based exclusively on a commercial logic of opening up new markets, which seems to favour only european countries. my vote therefore had to be negative.
in writing. ‒ i share the views expressed in the moscow report on 'intellectual property rights in third countries'. i am convinced that the defence of our companies, especially small and mediumsized enterprises, must first and foremost be achieved by combating the infringement of property rights, which are increasingly being violated in these countries and especially in china, and which are damaging our production system.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the protection of intellectual property rights in third countries is fundamental to defending the interests of our companies on the global market. i therefore believe that the commission's proposal should be improved, particularly as regards the protection of geographical indications of origin, which are just as important as other types of intellectual property rights.
in writing. ‒ some 26% (56 million people) of total employment in the european union and 39% of total economic activity (eur 4.7 trillion) are generated by high-gdp sectors. this shows the need to protect them and to pursue a coherent approach in the different areas of union action, both in relation to the internal market and exports to non-eu countries, and the importance of involving all stakeholders in the sector, including smes. to do this effectively, we need to differentiate protection strategies by geographical area and distinguish between physical and digital product protection policies in order to optimise the provisions needed for each sector. the protection of intellectual property requires that the amount and destination of ipr funding, in particular with regard to the eu ipr helpdesk, be clearly and precisely established; we also hope that the regrettable lack of a single eu patent will be addressed as soon as possible. it is also important to use this opportunity for debate to encourage research and innovation, in particular to overcome the problem of access to medicines and the challenge of hydrogeological disruption and global climate change, thus giving us an advantage in solving the major problems of our near future.
in writing. - i voted yes. i share the importance of fighting against infringements of intellectual property rights by companies from third countries in our production system.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries. the report sets out parliament's position on the european commission's communication on intellectual property, which sets out a strategy to ensure better protection of intellectual property rights in third countries. the report has the merit of underlining that the commercial nature of many ipr infringements and the increasing involvement of organised crime in this type of infringement have become a problem of primary importance. it also pointed out that the un convention against transnational organized crime does not currently have a protocol on the fight against counterfeiting. i therefore hope that, along the same lines as the report, the commission and the member states will intensify their efforts in this direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution which - while positively intended to remedy the lack of major agreements on the commercial aspects of intellectual property rights in international agreements - has some weaknesses. these concern in particular the definition of standards that would apply to third countries, the control of intermediaries' liability and the management of piracy in the foreign branches of european companies. the resolution also calls for the commission to provide more support to the large european pharmaceutical companies selling generic medicines in third countries, without any clear policy to promote access to these products at cost-of-living prices in these countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure on the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries. the eu's competitiveness is based on creativity and innovation, which is supported by intellectual property rights (ipr). the high-ipr sectors account for 39% of economic activity (worth some eur 4.7 trillion) and 26% of employment in the eu (about 56 million jobs). the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom and the united states on the alleged infringements of intellectual property rights. it should also be noted that the eu, as a member of the wto, is bound by the constraints and standards of the trips agreement and that ipr compliance is an integral part of the eu-us ttip agreement, currently under negotiation. the strategy therefore aims to combat ipr infringements, to inform and raise awareness among consumers and to promote and protect them at international level (e.g. wto). the commission also proposes to establish a european observatory on infringements of intellectual property rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that european companies must be guaranteed the safeguarding of their economic interests when they carry out their activities abroad, particularly in developing countries. this protection must be ensured at european level for two reasons: on the one hand, the union's economic strength is based on the creativity and innovation of its enterprises. on the other hand, infringement procedures are too time-consuming and costly for individual firms, especially small and medium-sized ones, to support. the introduction of such measures would not only protect economic interests but also the health and safety of consumers and the environment. counterfeiting is no longer limited to luxury goods, but also affects everyday goods: toys, medicines, cosmetics and food products, which can be seriously harmful to health and the environment. in 2013 alone, 36 million items were seized with a value of over €760 million, and 10% of these items were medicines. the problem is therefore serious and a specific strategy is needed to tackle it.
in writing. ‒ developing smart growth by stimulating an economy based on research and innovation is one of the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy. it is therefore necessary to strengthen cooperation between schools, universities, businesses, research centres and ipr holders, also in order to prevent counterfeiting, which no longer affects luxury goods only, but also everyday goods such as toys, medicines, cosmetics and foodstuffs. in order to reduce the risk of infringements and to avoid negative consequences for consumer health and the economy, it is important to establish a comprehensive legal framework that is also in line with the interests of third countries, accompanied by policies to combat organised crime, money laundering and tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ the report is moving in the right direction by identifying the main instruments to improve and strengthen the instruments to ensure greater protection of intellectual property rights in third countries. over the last decade we have seen significant changes in intellectual property rights: the substantial changes in the technology sector, including the pivotal role of the internet, the growing importance of emerging economies, and the challenges in key sectors such as pharmaceuticals, require a serious rethinking and a comprehensive rewrite of the approach to the discipline. in this respect, the commission's effort to standardise the approach both within the eu and towards third countries is commendable. as far as parliament is concerned, i think it is very important to stress that while protecting the interests and competitiveness of eu pharmaceutical companies and their capacity to innovate, we must make medicines accessible to people in the country where they are marketed, by adjusting their prices to their living standards. i firmly believe that while respecting labour and protecting intellectual property, the right to be able to take care of oneself remains an absolutely paramount and priority value.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the strategy for the protection and strengthening of intellectual property rights in third countries. i believe that, as the report emphasizes, a common and coherent european union strategy is needed to ensure that protection is greater and more effective both inside and outside the union. we must renew our commitment to ending the current fragmentation of the common market and to promote and promote our products in third countries as well, and finally give the eu a clear position in trade treaties and multilateral fora. the commission's green paper, which proposes to extend the protection of geographical indications to non-agricultural products in the union, is also moving in this direction. our aim must be to protect europe's creative industries and traditional know-how adequately, combating counterfeiting and boosting their competitiveness, while seeking a balance between the legitimate interests of intellectual property owners and end users. we must therefore adopt a flexible approach which takes account of the needs of individual countries for certain specific products, such as pharmaceuticals, for which access must be guaranteed to all.
in writing. ‒ the report on the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries is part of a very important debate which has repercussions both on the european and national scene. this is a crucial issue because of its implications for industrial policy, particularly in the field of innovation. in fact, a debate is emerging more and more clearly on how to boost growth and investment in europe. it is essential to include in this debate clear guidelines for these investments: innovation is certainly a key element for an increasingly specialised european labour market with many excellencies. a europe that invests in innovation is also a europe that is more competitive than other major international competitors. however, without adequate protection of intellectual property, it will be impossible to achieve the smart growth that underpins the eu's investment programmes and the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy. it is also a problem of particular importance to smes, the driving force behind the european economic fabric. for this reason, i believe that this debate is fundamental to the construction of a virtuous path towards solid growth in europe, with innovation and knowledge as its main drivers.
in writing. ‒ technological developments have dramatically transformed the way in which intellectual property rights are enforced. despite this, few agreements have been concluded since the entry into force of the international agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights in 1994. the draft report therefore seeks to fill in some gaps, such as the inclusion of international agreements on intellectual property rights at the level of the world trade organisation. i agree with the rapporteur's proposals, which largely reflect the commission's guidelines, but i voted against them. there are elements which are not in line with the m5s's positions, such as the exclusive responsibility of national authorities for the respect of intellectual property rights and strong support for pharmaceutical companies by the commission, which export medicines to third countries.
in writing. ‒ i fully share the importance of fighting against infringements of intellectual property rights by third country companies in our production system.
in writing. ‒ protecting intellectual property rights in third countries is a decisive and unforgettable requirement not only to provide the right protection for citizens' innovation and creativity, but also from the point of view of competitiveness: in 2013, the value of goods seized by eu customs authorities for infringement of intellectual property rights alone reached eur 760 million. at the level of global agreements, wrong and far-fetched action plans have been undertaken in the past, such as the failed attempt at the acta anti-counterfeiting treaty, which was definitively rejected by this assembly on 4 july 2012. in this new report we have asked the commission to legislate on such an important subject in an efficient and pragmatic way, avoiding the mistakes of the past.
in writing. i thank my colleague mrs mosca for the excellent work she has done on this important report on the fight against counterfeiting and the protection of intellectual property in the world. europe is built on creativity, on the production of quality and ingenuity, and i find the commitments which this report asks of the european institutions and the member states very important. protecting our creative and productive capacity is an essential element for growth and economic sustainability in europe. counterfeiting is no longer restricted to luxury goods, but also affects everyday goods such as toys, medicines, cosmetics and foodstuffs: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the protection of consumers is more effective.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, intellectual property rights (ipr) help to develop innovation and creativity. their protection is a key challenge for europe's competitiveness and therefore the union needs to have a more ambitious strategy for the protection of intellectual property rights vis-à-vis its trading partners. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the report by mrs mosca, who stressed the importance of this subject in order to safeguard european companies and their economic interests when they operate abroad and in developing countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on intellectual property rights in third countries, as it contributes to a favourable development of innovation and creativity, encouraging the necessary 'smart growth', it is a policy which, by protecting intellectual property and acting against all infringements of it, helps to produce a positive atmosphere for innovators. i believe that consumer awareness of economic harm and serious reasoning for internet management linked to the reality of iprs intellectual property rights is necessary in view of the digitisation of the market and the emergence of online platforms.
in writing. ‒ this report, signed by my colleague, mrs mosca, sets out the conditions for adequate protection of intellectual property rights in third countries. i particularly appreciated the reference in the text to the need to launch a full-scale fight against organised crime which profits from the trade in counterfeit and pirated goods. i am aware that greater protection of intellectual property rights would lead to an increase in economic growth, and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on the strategy for the protection and strengthening of intellectual property rights in third countries. as the report itself points out, the commission should be congratulated on the good work it has done so far, but on the other hand, further work is needed to achieve greater collaboration between the various stakeholders in the sector and effective legislation. it is important to note that it is now necessary to distinguish between physical and digital goods, and that this differentiation is taken into account when it comes to regulating and sanctioning. another key element of the strategy is the importance of regulating the price of medicines in the countries where they are sold, trying to find the difficult balance between the necessary support for the costs of research and the not only moral obligation to provide everyone with the opportunity to treat themselves. the communication is an excellent first step, but it must be followed up, since it is essential that the european union should have a coherent internal regulatory framework in this area, which would ensure greater negotiating power in both bilateral relations and multilateral discussions.
in writing. ‒ i welcomed the commission's proposal to analyse the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights (ipr). today, in fact, the high-ipr sectors in the eu generate about 39% of total economic activity (worth some €4.7 trillion a year) and approximately 26% of total employment (56 million jobs). it is therefore essential that the european union should have the best tools to protect eu intellectual property in third countries. in addition, the adoption of appropriate measures to combat infringements of intellectual property rights can play a key role in the fight against organised crime, money laundering and tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the market for counterfeit goods, including pharmaceuticals, has benefited greatly from the recent digitalisation of sales, taking advantage of the legislative vacuum in online trade. infringements of intellectual property rights therefore constitute a serious threat to the inventiveness of traders and to the health of consumers. i fully support the opening of a public debate on the importance of this issue, involving all rights holders, from citizens to businesses. the european union needs to expand the protection of intellectual property by introducing a modern copyright system that follows the trends of the digital age. it should also be borne in mind that the ip industry represents a pool of more than 50 million jobs throughout europe: the protection of creativity thus strengthens the protection of european businesses and workers. for these reasons, i supported the report presented in this chamber and i share parliament's call for the commission to support the respect of intellectual property in international organisations and in agreements with third countries as an important pillar for the creation of a competitive economic system.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs mosca, because intellectual property rights (ipr) contribute to the development of innovation and creativity in a country, and i therefore believe that it is right that the union should have a more ambitious strategy for the protection of intellectual property rights vis-à-vis its trading partners.
in writing. ‒ intellectual property rights are increasingly contributing to the success of a development and innovation-based economy and i agree with the report that the eu needs a more ambitious strategy in this area and also towards its trading partners. that is why i am in favour of the strategy put in place and i voted in favour of it. i believe that there is a need for better protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in the world trade organisation so that new markets can be opened for european exports while protecting intellectual property. but i think that the eu, in its desire to improve its external policy on intellectual property, should also pay attention to the internal improvements to be made to its own rules on intellectual property law.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the text as it calls on the commission to organise a clear and transparent public debate on these rights and their consequences for consumers; to take account of the specific circumstances of each third country; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that it is of fundamental importance to combat infringements of intellectual property rights by companies from third countries against the european production system, especially in a globalised market such as the present one.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support this motion for a resolution to ask the european commission to draw up a new european strategy for the protection and promotion of intellectual property rights (ipr) in third countries. it is estimated that the phenomenon of counterfeiting and piracy costs the european union some eur 8 billion of gdp each year, with negative effects on growth and employment. to safeguard the creative and innovative efforts of european businesses, we need to improve cooperation with our partners by implementing the international legislative framework and promoting a regular exchange of data and information between our businesses and foreign supervisory authorities. i also think that we should extend the services provided by the european ipr helpdesk beyond european borders in order to provide useful technical support to economic operators whose ipr is constantly infringed abroad. i therefore hope that the commission will pay attention to the proposals made by this parliament for better protection of intellectual property rights.
in writing. ‒ intellectual property rights (ipr) intensive sectors in the eu generate around 39% of total economic activity worth around eur 4.7 trillion per year and approximately 26% of total employment with 56 million jobs. however, there are few major agreements since the entry into force of the international agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips, 1/1/1995), and despite technological and social changes we have transformed the intellectual property rights landscape. the report does, however, raise problems with regard to the question of ipr and standards which should also apply to third countries, both in terms of the control of liability of intermediaries and in terms of the management of piracy in the branches of european companies in these countries. in addition, reference is made on several occasions to the commission's increased support for european pharmaceutical companies which then sell generic medicines in third countries. for all these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries. the report is a response to the commission communication 'trade, growth and intellectual property'. firstly, i welcome the commission's initiative: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment. i also think that the report deals very precisely with the question of generic medicines, and stresses the importance of encouraging the production of these medicines without, at the same time, penalizing pharmaceutical research excessively.
in writing. ‒ my vote on the svoboda dossier, entitled 'towards a renewed consensus on the respect of intellectual property rights: an eu action plan', was negative. this is because, although there are some correct and acceptable steps, such as the recognition of the importance of intellectual property rights both for authors and creators and to stimulate innovation, as well as the role played by organised crime in counterfeiting activities and the 'follow the money' principle, the report has several criticisms. in particular, i found the following approach to be completely wrong: it is not possible to believe that in an increasingly digital and global world, intellectual property rights should be protected only by very strict enforcement. this is likely to produce negative effects which are the opposite of those intended. other aspects which made me lean towards the negative vote were those concerning: the court of justice has also ruled that the commission's decision to impose a fine on the applicant for the infringement of article 85 (1) of the treaty is not justified by the fact that the applicant has not complied with the conditions laid down in article 85 (1) of the treaty.
in writing. ‒ i find mr svoboda's own-initiative report balanced and acceptable, which is why i voted in favour of it. i believe that a european action plan to protect intellectual property rights more effectively is necessary to coordinate all the member states in the fight against infringement of intellectual property rights. we have a duty to protect all our companies from the damage they suffer from the infringement of property rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted 'yes' to this resolution because i believe that the effective enforcement of intellectual property rights plays a key role in stimulating innovation, creativity, competitiveness, growth and cultural diversity.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution tabled by mr pavel svoboda is to be welcomed as it correctly follows the logic of allowing all actors in the supply chain to participate, both online and offline, in insisting on consumer awareness and correct information, and in reiterating the centrality of smes and the need to develop a new business model consistently, consolidating their work and production, alongside the ongoing work of the european observatory on infringements of intellectual property rights and establishing a group of ipr experts, which will refine the existing work in line with the evolution of the current legal framework, while also taking into account the needs arising from international supply chains, the role of the union's customs and international cooperation agreements. we also agree with the emphasis on the importance of regular analyses of the factors that motivate smes to use or not to use iprs, in order to understand how improvements can be made, whether innovative smes or traditional smes experiencing problems, in terms of the exercise of their iprs; in addition, in the cultural and creative sectors, payment service providers should be involved in the dialogue in order to reduce the profits made from online ipr infringements.
in writing. - i voted yes. i share the need for better coordination of the member states' activities in what is a struggle to be carried out above all at transnational level. the text is also agreeable in its references to the problems of smes.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on 'towards a renewed consensus on the respect of intellectual property rights: an eu action plan'. intellectual property rights are at the heart of the development of european and international civilization and cover many areas, from scientific, literary and artistic production to the authenticity of medicinal and food products. in short, they are a key element of innovation and creativity and also make an important contribution to competitiveness, employment and cultural diversity. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which, by means of preventive measures and strategic instruments, aims to ensure respect for intellectual property rights and to make it more difficult for counterfeit goods to be placed on the market.
in writing. ‒ the report, in support of the approach proposed by the commission, has very positive aspects, such as the recognition of the need to help small and medium-sized enterprises to enforce intellectual property rights. at the same time, however, some criticisms emerge regarding the exclusive responsibility of national state authorities in the management of the property rights system and the criminalization of internet intermediaries for facilitating the infringement of property rights - which could result in a limitation of the dissemination through the same of content that should be able to be used. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ in the europe 2020 strategy, intellectual property plays a key role throughout the lifecycle of research and innovation projects. with horizon 2020, the european union aims to strengthen europe's technological and scientific base by supporting industrial innovation at all levels, from basic research to the development and commercialisation of products and processes. however, we see that intellectual property rights still tend to be more protected by national legislation than by european legislation. it would be possible to save time and money by protecting intellectual property at eu level. in this way, innovations and creations would be protected throughout europe and could become a source of income. i therefore believe that the european union must defend intellectual property, in order to ensure adequate protection in the event of infringements, and thus to be a model for all eu member states. finally, i believe that it is necessary to create an efficient system of repression in the event of violation of these rights so that the resources that the eu will invest in this project are not wasted. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's motion for a resolution on the eu action plan for the protection of intellectual property rights (ipr). these rights, whose protection is recognised by article 118 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and article 17 of the charter of fundamental rights, make a decisive contribution to competitiveness and employment and are of particular importance for smes. however, iprs are subject to numerous infringements. to this end, the european commission has drawn up an action plan, set up an observatory on infringements of intellectual property rights and is committed to promoting consumer awareness campaigns. the protection of ipr should be ensured by the member states and they should cooperate to that end.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which sets out an action plan based on the 'follow the money' approach, as i believe that the protection of intellectual property rights is one of the strongest drivers of innovation and creativity and the development of healthy competitiveness. this protection triggers a virtuous circle which results in increased employment and a positive development of cultural diversity. the protection of these rights is also a sine qua non for the development of the digital economy and the digital single market, where the boundaries of these rights are still often confused and ignored by most. it must not be forgotten that ensuring such protection helps to strengthen fundamental aspects such as consumer safety and health. i hope that this plan will not only serve the protectionist purpose but also raise the awareness of european citizens of the seriousness of the violation of these rights, which is often tolerated or even regarded as physiological.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because intellectual property rights (ipr) are one of the driving forces behind innovation and creativity and make a key contribution to competitiveness, employment and cultural diversity. in addition, compliance with ipr plays a key role in ensuring the health and safety of consumers. unfortunately, the cultural and creative sectors in particular, which represent 4.5% of gdp, are subject to a high number of ipr infringements with a heavy impact on many smes and business-to-business services, causing loss of markets and bankruptcy. a strategy must be put in place which includes: cooperation between rightholders, platform operators, intermediaries and end-users; consolidate audit measures and apply the 'follow the money' principle to protect consumers and the supply chain; to inform consumers, and in particular young people, about ipr and what can and cannot be done with protected goods and content; finally, to encourage industry to bring diversified, more accessible and legal products to market in order to meet consumer demand.
in writing. ‒ the svoboda report is parliament's response to the commission's communication of 10 july 2014 presenting an action plan on the enforcement of intellectual property rights in which the commission supports an approach based on preventive actions and strategic tools aimed at depriving commercial-scale infringers of revenue streams and making it more difficult for counterfeit goods to be placed on the market. the svoboda report supports the approach proposed by the commission in its communication. it stressed the need to encourage participation by all actors in the supply chain, to support targeted information campaigns and to support smes in protecting and enforcing their intellectual property rights. however, there are some elements that contradict the positions taken by m5s on intellectual property, such as the reference to the sole responsibility of national authorities for ipr compliance or the criminalization of internet intermediaries for facilitating ipr infringements. for the reasons i have given, i shall vote against.
in writing. ‒ the resolution adopted calls on the commission to introduce new and more effective tools to tackle counterfeiting and the sale of counterfeit products via online platforms. this is unfortunately a common practice, which is very damaging to our undertakings and to our research. it is not by chance that this multi-billion dollar business is attracting the attention and involvement of organised crime in third countries. the s&d group contributed to improving the proposal through a number of points such as the need to give priority to the enforcement of intellectual property rights over infringements of a commercial nature, rather than limiting itself to criminalising private consumers and users. in addition, on the consumer side, we should instead act by developing and disseminating awareness campaigns about the costs and consequences of infringements of intellectual property rights on our businesses and our workers. the report is very balanced and is heading in the right direction. we now call on the commission to act quickly, to respond to our production system and to protect it with concrete action.
in writing. ‒ technological developments have dramatically transformed the way in which intellectual property rights are enforced. despite this, few agreements have been concluded since the entry into force of the international agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights in 1994. i agree with the rapporteur's proposals, which largely follow the commission's guidelines, but i voted against. the report, although stressing the importance of promoting information campaigns, which aim to protect by informing small and medium-sized enterprises, contains elements not in line with the positions of the m5s, such as the removal of content without prior authorisation from the judicial authority and the criminalization of internet intermediaries in the event of facilitation of infringements of intellectual property rights.
in writing. ‒ i share the struggle and the need to better coordinate the activities of the member states for a transnational approach and one that has as one of its priorities the attention to the internet, a tool through which many infringements of intellectual property rights are carried out.
in writing. ‒ protecting industrial property rights today means not only protecting and encouraging creativity and innovation but also ensuring high-quality goods and services for consumers, while boosting employment and the economy. the european commission's figures express these concepts better than any words: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the illegal exploitation of intellectual property. the strategy we voted on today contains several new protection measures, following an approach called 'follow the money', depriving offenders of any financial benefits from criminal activity. the following are also provided: the commission has also proposed that the member states should take measures to support smes, chargeback systems, greater cooperation between the various national authorities in enforcement activities, and more information and public awareness. i am very pleased with the measures taken and have therefore voted in favour of today's report.
in writing. i thank mr svoboda for his report on the respect of intellectual property. we all hope that this legislature will finally lead to the introduction of long-awaited reforms on the digital agenda and copyright. it's an economic necessity, it's a cultural necessity that is growing. i believe that any legislative proposal for reform of the sector, as mr svoboda's report rightly does, must start from the absolute and legitimate recognition of intellectual property, fair remuneration for artists, and the promotion of the high social and cultural value that copyright assumes as a legal institution. attempts to relativize these fundamental principles will not be able to benefit the european economy or to support the promotion of a more mature and aware legal and civic culture. i stress this point because i share the report's view that citizens and consumers, especially younger people, lack information and awareness about the permissible uses of online cultural products. information and awareness campaigns are essential, but they are not enough: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the introduction of a new system of national and community rules on the protection of the environment. i think we should make sure that the overall context of the digital agenda stimulates investment in innovation and the introduction of new models and forms of cultural exploitation. i am convinced that whatever rules we may introduce to combat piracy and counterfeiting, the best solution will always be to extend the legal offer through a new and simpler (but more certain) legal framework in this area. i therefore invite my colleagues to consider the reforms of european copyright in their overall approach and open to synthesis between several instances, without ideological claims of position but with a concrete approach, which aims to facilitate solutions also on other expected measures that can increase the supply and cross-border availability of digital content, such as new regulations on consumer protection, the development of electronic commerce, the approximation of vat rates, the strengthening of digital networks.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, infringements of intellectual property rights are a moral and economic damage to european companies and a serious economic and fiscal loss to the states. international aspects are also essential to ensure the respect of intellectual property rights (iprs), as ipr infringements are a global phenomenon. i voted in favour of this proposal which includes a follow-the-money approach to protect consumer interests and the integrity of the supply chain.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the eu action plan on the respect of intellectual property rights, as it allows for effective and effective protection, safeguarding one of the driving forces of innovation and creativity. a strong policy both towards the protection of intellectual property and against all infringements of it also helps to produce a positive atmosphere for innovators, potentially stimulating the market with the resulting work.
in writing. ‒ improving standards to ensure greater respect for intellectual property rights is directly proportional to the increase in employment and growth in the european union. given that the european union is faced with a high number of infringements of intellectual property rights and that the financial impact of these infringements is alarming, it is necessary to open a public debate on the matter, involving all interested parties. for the reasons i have just mentioned, i have decided to support the svoboda report, which sets out the guidelines for the definition of a strategy to strengthen the standards governing the respect of intellectual property rights.
in writing. ‒ intellectual property rights are one of the driving forces behind innovation and creativity and make a key contribution to competitiveness, employment and cultural diversity. the eu is faced with an increasing number of infringements and counterfeits, with enormous financial implications. we therefore welcome the commission's communication presenting an action plan on the enforcement of intellectual property rights, supporting the approach based on preventive actions and strategic instruments aimed at depriving offenders on a commercial scale and making it more difficult for counterfeit goods to be placed on the market. respect for intellectual property rights is also essential to the proper functioning of the single market, stimulating employment and innovation. we also believe it is important to organise targeted awareness campaigns involving individual consumers who need to be able to better identify offers, decide to buy legal goods or use legal content. we welcome the development of the activities of the european observatory on infringements of intellectual property rights, which provides useful support for the reflection of policy-makers and is a tool for collecting and exchanging information and data on all forms of infringement.
in writing. ‒ the report signed by mr svoboda looks in detail at the ipr action plan presented by the european commission in july 2014. the action plan, which is a first step towards building an effective enforcement policy for intellectual property infringements on a commercial scale at community and national level, proposes new enforcement tools, including the follow-the-money approach, to protect consumer interests and the integrity of the supply chain. as intellectual property rights are one of the driving forces behind innovation and creativity and make a major contribution to the eu's competitiveness, employment and cultural diversity, i have decided to support the report. in recent years, the eu has had to deal with a steadily growing number of breaches in this area, with an alarming financial volume. i therefore believe that action is needed to this end, based on preventive measures and strategic instruments which aim to deprive offenders on a commercial scale of revenue streams and make it more difficult to market counterfeit goods.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr svoboda on a renewed consensus on respect for property rights, as infringements of intellectual property rights constitute a moral and economic damage for european companies and entail serious economic and fiscal losses for states, discouraging growth, job creation, innovation and creativity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the action plan on the enforcement of intellectual property rights because i believe it is important that preventive action is taken and that a strategy is put in place to block and discourage infringers from putting counterfeit goods on the market. the plan must be transparent and the public, the final consumer of goods, must be given the most complete information to involve them and make them aware of the fight against infringements of intellectual property rights. i would like to stress the importance, for the success of the action plan, of cooperation between the member states, the exchange of information and the value of coordination activities for the cross-border implementation of the action plan.
in writing. ‒ the legal affairs committee worked on the internal aspect of the european strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights by analysing the ten points of the action plan presented by the commission. the most important point on which i was asked to vote and for which i voted in favour is the follow-the-money approach which will serve to better protect the interests of consumers and the integrity of the supply chain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i share the view that there is a need to coordinate member states' activities better in a fight which, by its very nature, must be carried out above all at transnational level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu action plan to protect intellectual property rights (ipr) against infringements on a commercial scale at eu and national level. since 2003, the number of new registrations of european patents, community trade marks and community designs has more than doubled. however, this positive trend may be undermined by the high number of counterfeit products introduced into the european single market, mainly by organised crime. the latest statistics produced by eu border control bodies have identified 90 000 cases of goods suspected of infringing ipr. i believe that our main objective should not be to punish and sanction individual offenders but to stamp out illegal trade on a commercial scale. i believe that the new 'follow the money' approach, which is rebuilding the entire chain of counterfeit goods from sale and distribution to production, with the aim of tracing the income generated by these trades back to the final beneficiaries, will make a positive contribution to this. i also hope that information campaigns will be promoted to raise awareness among citizens of the economic damage caused by ipr infringements in order to raise consumer awareness.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the non-legislative resolution by which the european parliament calls for the development of an eu action plan on intellectual property rights (ipr) with the aim of establishing a comprehensive legal framework, adapted to the online environment, to combat ipr infringements within european borders. the report stresses the need to involve all stakeholders in the implementation of the plan and suggests the formulation of awareness-raising measures on the consequences of ipr infringement on society and consumers through better information, but also the development of new business models better suited to meet the challenges posed by the rapid technological development of the media. parliament also showed renewed interest in the problems of small and medium-sized enterprises in order to ensure that their iprs are also fully respected.
in writing. the protection of intellectual property rights is fundamental in today's society. the quality of our manufacturing is at risk today and in a global competitive environment it is therefore essential to act effectively to limit the entry into the union market of counterfeit products which harm consumers and the economy. for this reason we must work to promote and protect intellectual property rights, by improving civil protection procedures for smes and individual creators, but also by informing consumers through awareness campaigns. a balanced approach between the interests of intellectual property owners and consumers must continue to be promoted, ensuring the full involvement of all actors and having as the ultimate objective the elimination of counterfeiting which unfortunately also causes serious harm to health, as demonstrated for cosmetics, food and medicines. the european union's action plan is moving in the right direction, but it is essential that all infringements which undermine the high quality of products 'made in europe' are punished and that a global legal framework is created as soon as possible which is also suitable for the dissemination of digital content.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report towards a renewed consensus on implementation of intellectual property rights, as it sets out a future action plan on ipr. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers. i think it is appropriate, however, and here too my opinion is in line with the report, to develop information campaigns and to raise public awareness of the costs and consequences of infringements of intellectual property rights.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the text we are voting on tomorrow forms the basis for the conclusion of the doha amendment by the european union and sets out the conditions for the joint fulfilment of the commitments by the european union, its member states and iceland, a point which will be discussed in detail by my colleague, mr giovanni la via. the text, as you know, sets out the obligations of the second kyoto commitment, the so-called doha amendment, from 2013 to 2020 and, above all, requires member states to take the necessary measures to complete the national ratification processes by the third quarter of 2015. although the draft council decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint fulfilment of the commitments is certainly a positive step, it must nevertheless be stressed that it is mainly the countries of the european union that are participating in the second commitment period, while some of the most polluting countries are unfortunately not taking part in it. in this context, i believe that the union should use all the political, diplomatic and economic instruments at its disposal to reach an international agreement in paris at the end of the year, as comprehensive as possible, also in order to break this long tradition of the european union, which very often takes on all its climate commitments alone. in this sense, the g7 meeting last week marked, albeit with lights and shadows, some important steps towards this goal. in particular, i would like to mention the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 40 to 70% by 2050 compared to 2010 levels and the commitment to limit the global temperature increase to 2 degrees celsius, which seem to be important points, and there are others that are important. the g7 meeting also showed the will, especially at the german level, to phase out the use of fossil fuels such as oil, gas and coal during this century. chancellor merkel called it the decarbonization of the global economy. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. we know that several european countries have increased their use of fossil fuels with a high environmental impact, including lignite in particular, in a counter-tendency. so if this is the scenario in the european union, with lights and shadows, we find on the other side of the ocean obama who seems to give signals that also go in the direction of an effective counter to global warming, at least in the intentions because as we know, the policy of obama in the words of even the last weeks of some distinguished political commentators, the policy of obama in fact, seems to have the weak point precisely on the environment and so i believe that, as concluded the g7 communiqué, the challenge can only be overcome with a global response. so even if the g7 countries were to eliminate all carbon dioxide emissions tomorrow, the problem of climate change would not be solved. the emerging countries must also make their contribution: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. in this context, the kyoto ii protocol, which requires the parties to communicate - i do not have time to mention everything now - is an important step in the right direction and i really hope that the paris summit can finally be the day when we can welcome a binding global agreement to which we will all contribute with europe, dear commissioner, always strongly at the forefront of this process as a global leader.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner cañete, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are about to discuss concerns the signing by the european union of an agreement between the union and its member states, on the one hand, and iceland, on the other, on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the commitments of the european union and its member states for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change. i will not repeat what i said to mrs gardini, re-creating the history of the kyoto protocol and commitments, but i would remind you that at the 20th conference of the parties in december 2014 in lima, the call made encouraged all 192 parties and the kyoto protocol to ratify the amendment. as of 14 may 2015, this amendment had been ratified by 31 countries. but before it can enter into force, it needs to be ratified by 144 other parties. in particular, i would point out that iceland is already a party to annex 1 of the kyoto protocol and has achieved its individual target for the first commitment period, during which it was to limit the increase in emissions to less than 10% on average. finally, during this period, iceland's emissions decreased on average. in 2009, iceland expressed its intention to fulfil its commitments in a second commitment period jointly with the european union and its member states. iceland also participates in the european union emissions trading system (ets) and the eu regulation on the mmr monitoring mechanism for greenhouse gases. so it has fully embarked on this path, as the other 28 member states of the european union are doing. iceland is therefore interested in joint fulfilment with the european union and its member states, irrespective of whether it is a member of the union or not. in conclusion, i believe that this agreement will be a strong signal, highlighting the coordinated european efforts to combat climate change at international level, especially in view of the forthcoming cop 21 in paris. the european union, as mentioned above, is a world leader in the fight against climate change and has always supported an ambitious climate policy. we are leading internationally and we are leading politically in the fight against climate change, and we need to do that with greater commitment and even more commitment in the run-up to paris, by stepping up efforts for an agreement that is ambitious, comprehensive and legally binding. in this overall framework of commitments, iceland has so far done its part, it is continuing along the path together with the other 28 states of the european union and for this reason i think it is appropriate, in this context, to invite all colleagues to support this ratification, which supports our european action on climate change and can also contribute with iceland's small contribution to the current international debate on reducing emissions at global level. i therefore call on all members to support the ratification of this agreement, which marks a further small step towards even more ambitious agreements which we hope to reach at the end of the year in paris.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the ratification of the doha amendment and the agreement between the european union and iceland to continue together the kyoto protocol meet with general agreement and are almost a formality which we will carry out with tomorrow's vote, without taking anything away from the two rapporteurs who have done a very good job. there is no doubt that all the attention now is obviously on paris and the conference of the parties next december. there is a strong and justified expectation, a unanimous feeling: we must not forget that the european union is a major player in the world economy. a long way has been traveled since kyoto. but we are very, very far from the goal. the strategies have changed and the words have changed, and they no longer speak of future scenarios, but of current phenomena: it's not just emissions reduction anymore, but also mitigation, adaptation, resilience, transformation. the declarations by the g7 to keep the global temperature rise to within 2 degrees are important but not enough. it is clear that a breakthrough is needed in the negotiations and agreements. we need a strong and binding commitment from all the states and we need it now because we have no more time.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we also agree, of course, on the timeliness and importance of ratifying the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol in order to partially remedy the failure of the copenhagen summit in 2009. it is important that the 20% reduction targets by 2020 be maintained and that the eu's effort in this direction can be shared with other contracting parties to the protocol which would adopt the amendment under discussion. however, there is a strong doubt that this process, although necessary, will prove futile for two reasons: the first concerns the risk that the amendment will not enter into force in good time, since it has so far been ratified by 32 contracting parties, a figure which, although this vote will bring it up to 61, is still far from the 144 ratifications needed for its entry into force. the second risk is that the protocol will end up being adopted only by those contracting parties, such as the european union and its member states, for which the 20% reduction target for 2020 does not entail any immediate additional effort. so the risks are real and they demonstrate the importance of a serious, binding, ambitious and global agreement in paris.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the news that came yesterday at the end of the g7 summit about the commitment of the heads of state and government to limit the increase in global temperature to two degrees above pre-industrial levels gives particular importance to our debate this afternoon. the ratification of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol, which does not present any political problem in its substance, allows us to return to the paris conference with the united nations on climate change. we need the agreement to be reached by the end of the year to prevent the world temperature from rising by more than 2 degrees celsius above pre-industrial levels to be global and binding, and the commitment of the g7 gives us reason to hope that this will happen. however, this objective can only be achieved if the so-called emerging and developing countries also accept a binding global pathway to reduce missions. we therefore welcomed with cautious optimism the bilateral, non-binding agreement signed by the united states and china a few months ago. today, another element on the path to positive involvement of emerging and developing countries is the g7's reaffirmation of the commitment made in copenhagen in 2009 to establish a $100 billion global climate fund. the conditions are there, mr president, mr commissioner, for paris to turn from words to deeds.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, many of our colleagues have already said that the adoption of this amendment to the kyoto protocol in the run-up to the paris cop is a good sign of commitment to combating climate change, but the decision taken yesterday by the g7 allows us to approach our discussion with cautious optimism. yesterday there was a clear recognition, as has already been said, of the binding objective of limiting global temperature and the confirmation of the funding for initiatives in the poorest countries, but that is not enough. i want to take this opportunity not only to highlight the importance of reaching a binding global agreement in paris, which is fundamental to the sustainability of our planet, a subject on which we are all already convinced, but also to reiterate how even more important it is to act now to involve the most polluting emerging economies in joining this agreement. that is why, mr commissioner, the diplomatic action we are going to be able to take in the coming months is central, also, let me say, to dispel the doubts of those who, by calling for greater pragmatism, ultimately want to maintain the status quo. but without an agreement with all the major international players, we could perhaps be first in class, like europe, but i agree with those who say that our efforts will be worthless and will even risk becoming another element of distortion of the global market, which i believe is no longer needed.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, by voting tomorrow the european parliament will give the green light to extend the commitment of the kyoto protocol until 2020 which will lead to a 20% reduction in co2 by that year. the european union has the opportunity to highlight once again the important efforts it is making to tackle climate change by asserting its leadership at international level, in anticipation of the un climate change conference in paris next autumn. 2015 is a crucial year for giving fresh impetus to the fight against climate change and the recent g7 summit in germany has also given a clear recognition of the need to accelerate on the climate front. the agreement reached by the heads of state to limit the global temperature increase to 2 degrees is certainly an important signal that represents a good result in anticipation of the paris agreement. but we must be firmly aware that global warming is an emergency and that, while the path we are on is the right one, speed, ambition and specific action are needed to phase out fossil fuels.
member of the commission. madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs and the alternate rapporteurs who have spoken on this matter. and as i said in my first speech, parliament's decision to approve this amendment and the icelandic process will send an important signal to the international community that the european union remains firmly behind the process of negotiating a new international agreement on climate change under the auspices of the united nations and that we are keeping our commitments, which is especially significant this year, ahead of cop 21 in paris. many of the honourable members have referred to the g7 agreements in this debate, and let me make a point. the commission welcomes the g7's fundamental commitments to take the necessary measures to ensure that global warming does not exceed 2 °c above pre-industrial levels. but more specifically, the g7 statement also includes a medium-term reduction target at the top of the intergovernmental panel on climate change recommendation of between 40 and 70%, and a long-term target of 100 per cent emission reduction by 2100. as you all know, the 2050 target is a target which the european union wants to see incorporated into the paris agreement, because this medium-term target will allow us to assess whether our collective efforts are sufficient to avoid a 2°c increase in global temperature and to periodically review the level of our ambitions. this decision, which is contained in the final joint communiqué, is therefore an important step towards the paris climate summit in december. furthermore, it is positive that all g-7 countries except japan have already submitted their national adaptation and mitigation commitments, the so-called indc, although japan announced yesterday that they are in the final phase of internal consultations, so we expect their indc to be approved in the coming weeks. the countries that ratified kyoto at the time, the 28 of the european union plus austria, norway, switzerland, iceland, liechtenstein and new zealand, accounted for 14% of emissions. at present, 37 countries have submitted adaptation and mitigation commitments, representing 30% of global emissions, which suggests that we are on track to have all parties to the convention able to submit mitigation commitments and that these cover 100% of emissions. it is true that at the moment only the 28 countries of the european union plus switzerland, mexico, russia, liechtenstein, andorra, canada, morocco, norway and the united states have ratified it, but we are already at a 30% emissions level. the g7 also reiterated the binding nature of the agreement and expressed its determination to provide financial support for the green climate fund and other mechanisms to help the most vulnerable countries. if we add to this the fact that it was agreed that a world economy free of fossil fuels and the production of clean energy by 2050 would be possible during this century, the overall assessment of the g7 agreements is frankly positive and puts the european union in a very positive negotiating position, especially if, when we arrive in paris, we have already presented - or will present very soon - our new ets system, the european system of emission allowances. some people want us to introduce it immediately, we are working on it at the moment, but in any case the european union will arrive in paris with a new system of emission allowances in which we have to deal with all the issues that affect this regime and in which we cannot improvise by making singular modifications, but we have to set up a system that is positive, that has a functioning carbon market and that, in turn, prevents the so-called carbon leakage or relocation problems of our industries, which has also worried many of your honourable members. in short, we think that paving the way for the ratification of the kyoto process is very positive, especially as a signal to negotiate this ambitious, binding agreement at cop 21 in paris, on which we are currently still working. we have worked to get the g-7, all countries, to submit their indcs; we are now working to get all the g-20 countries to submit them as soon as possible, and it is hoped that, by the time we get to paris, a large number of countries will have submitted mitigation and adaptation commitments that make up a much more ambitious scheme than in the past.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that this debate which is taking place today is really making me feel positive. i have been working on climate change since the copenhagen conference, and i have to say that i really think that we have succeeded over the years in transforming a debate that was ambitious - period - into the debate that everyone hoped for, and that has been mentioned many times today, into an ambitious and pragmatic debate. i think this was a hard conquest. we said it wouldn't be difficult to vote tomorrow. but we have all been reminded of the complexity and complexity of the situation in which we find ourselves. we all hope that, after parliament's rapid work, the member states will also ratify the treaty quickly and absolutely before the paris conference. we have mentioned - and the commissioner has also mentioned - that it concerns only 14% of global emissions, and we all know that until now we have not been able to reach a binding agreement because the countries in question have extremely different situations and it is difficult to find a single strategy for action against climate change, starting from the needs of growth and development, which are so far apart, from the institutional and social histories, which are so different. but it is also true that the climate has changed around this issue. today there is a much more concrete and pragmatic approach. we all agree that the agreement must be binding and global. we all recognize that europe alone would do nothing, would not be able to change the situation which must be changed. i am therefore, and i have been very sceptical in the past, united with those who are convinced that the possibility of paris becoming another copenhagen, that is, another failure, is quite remote this time, and i am therefore positive.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the interesting debate we had in the house today. it is clear from the debate that there should be no problem in this house tomorrow with the vote, either on ratification and amendment or on iceland's ratification and participation in this amendment in doha. as we had strongly called for in the lima appeal, the process of adopting the amendment and ratifying it by all the members of the cop is progressing gradually and tomorrow we will take another small step in the right direction. but on the other hand, the debate was an interesting debate because it touched on the whole issue of climate change policies. it showed us how these policies are progressively believed by everyone and more and more. just a little bit of a rant, perhaps, from people who don't acknowledge that climate change exists, but basically we're all marching in the same direction, and we're marching with conviction. but it is necessary for paris and in view of paris that environmental diplomacy takes its course and that there are increasingly binding commitments from all the countries of the cop, so that we can move towards a binding agreement, but certainly a global agreement. finally, i would like to emphasize what i said to commissioner cañete in conclusion, who spoke of the possibility of presenting a new proposal for the co2 ets in paris. this is an important step, because it would show the world that europe is not just limiting itself to the choices made at the conference of the parties, but is moving forward and developing new systems in a positive direction, and i therefore welcome the commissioner's proposal for us to present the new ets to the paris conference, which we will consider in this parliament.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we would like this parliament to take note of a few facts: in may, saudi arabia said it aims to become "a global powerhouse in solar and wind energy" by the middle of this century and to export electricity instead of oil. in june, the norwegian parliament voted to divest from coal. this year chevron, total, conocophilips, exxon, marathon oil have all abandoned shale gas in poland, which was believed to hold the largest european reserves. finally, in may, a recent imf study revealed that between direct subsidies and environmental and health damage, fossil fuels will cost humanity $5 trillion this year, or 6.5 percent of global gdp. the energy security strategy, despite the substantial improvements and thanks to saudargas , therefore appears not only out of date but also unfortunately schizophrenic: on the one hand, we are declaring war on climate change and wanting to reduce our energy and political dependence, on the other hand we are importing fissile material, clean coal, new drilling and the use of shale gas, and new investments in infrastructure which will still result in emissions of climate-changing gases. time wasted, money wasted, and a totally irresponsible attitude. if we want a strong and lasting european sovereignty, it is time to invest in a renewable model, not just for the real economy, but also for the real security, geology, climate of the planet and the health of european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that was a very good report by mrs rivasi. we are here to talk about energy security and the energy mix, but i ask you what diversification do you think we are going to achieve if we talk about renewable sources, but in practice member states are allowed to cancel incentives for renewable sources and at the same time increase subsidies for fossil fuels in electricity and gas bills for millions of citizens of the european union? according to the international monetary fund, subsidies for fossil fuels in 2015 exceeded the health spending of all governments in the world: $5.3 trillion a year. eliminating these subsidies could increase government revenues, cut global carbon emissions by 20 percent, and reduce pollution-related premature deaths by 55 percent. so fossil fuels are not cheap at all, as this commission would have us believe. the real costs are enormous and europe must send a clear signal by eliminating fossil fuel subsidies once and for all because they have devastating consequences for the climate, the environment, public health and our fragile economies.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am not feeling very well. i think that europe's energy policy should be a whole and should be collaborative. let me give you an example. i have to fly to milan, then i have to stop in lyon, then i have to take another plane to strasbourg. from lyon to strasbourg, i see the nuclear power stations, practically on the border with italy, on the french side. if there is a problem in france, it will obviously be a problem in italy too. so what's the point of discussing energy when each state is making its own history?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the security of our energy supplies is the central issue for the future of the social, economic and productive fabric of the european union. it is enough to consider that we import 53% of the needs at a cost of 400 billion euros. we are the largest energy importer on the planet as the european union. that is why i think that the report by mr saudargas on energy security is important and balanced. there is a balance in the committee on industry which is particularly advanced: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's energy policy is based on the principle of the european union's energy policy, which is based on the principle of the european union's energy policy. i think this report provides a solid basis for comparison with the council, which just yesterday, at the meeting of the permanent representatives, reiterated its commitment to a supply policy that takes account of the path towards the completion of the internal market, in line with the conclusions of 20-21 march 2014. i also see this as an opportunity to re-launch a more ambitious vision of climate and energy policies, where the factors of economic growth do not contradict the factors of environmental improvement and vice versa. the challenge is complex and we must continue to work on it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, once again the debate is proving to be extremely useful in identifying a strategy which will give the european parliament the authority it deserves on this subject, in a debate which has the european union's development policy at its heart. today the european union is still one of the markets, perhaps the most fascinating market we have internationally, but it is a landmark in terms of the competitiveness of its productive sectors. and one of the reasons why europe is still so uncompetitive is precisely because of its weakness. - excuse me, there's a strange noise. - excuse me. - can i go on? in our view, as far as the industrial structure of our continent is concerned, the soundness of our energy policies is certainly a central point. we cannot imagine playing this game with the environmental misconceptions that we have often seen in the debate that has led to this report. i am aware that mr saudargas has produced a very balanced result, and i do not entirely agree with all the steps in the proposal because we still have to work on some points, but i am certainly aware that the way forward is the right one in this game. we do not look lazyly at our productive realities moving where constraints that we consider necessary today are not respected. i am thinking particularly of the chinese market. when europe is about to give the status of a market economy to an economy like china's, it risks losing both the energy balance and the industrial competitiveness game.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the international situation, made even more complex by the events in russia, shows that energy security means above all political independence. the construction of a genuine, stable and protective european energy union is proving to be both urgent and binding, not so much for the sake of pursuing the objectives set out in the motion for a resolution, which, together with the careful suggestions of the committees, i share, first of all because it is a geopolitical objective. energy, the resilience of our nations, the fight against so-called energy poverty are being exploited, becoming, with a worrying escalation, instruments of pressure diplomacy and aggression. the path towards the european energy union is still fragmented and uncertain, if not incoherent, if careful analysis of energy security, competitiveness and sustainability reveals unresolved issues on our internal and external energy dimension that amplify vulnerability. among all these critical issues that i would like to see as opportunities for growth, i am convinced that affirming the general principle of solidarity between states, together with that of moderation, decarbonisation and innovation, is the decisive step towards a truly common energy policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard criticism so far, but no alternative proposals to this dual purpose smart border package. first of all, to celebrate the fact that free movement is both a resource and a challenge for the european union. i think that everyone in this parliament must agree that we must move beyond manual checks, also for security reasons, in the face of all the people, and increasingly, who will be crossing our borders. so i think that who can think that the position of stamps on travel documents on passports that can be lost, destroyed, that do not take into account extended stays beyond the deadline can be better than automation, so on the one hand, it facilitates entry, on the other hand it facilitates controls. so this is a response that is being given, i think i hear the debate on the pnr again. parliament was split between those in favour and those against. so there will certainly be a data collection, a register. the important challenge will be to concentrate efforts on the fact that all this data must be put online, put together, because there is schengen data, data for the visa information system, the sis and therefore this data must then be collected and above all well used, both for law enforcement and security.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while we await the commission's legislative proposal, i think there is a lot of confusion on the subject of smart borders. the only certainty is that, as mrs fajon said, 791 million euros were allocated in 2013, and a subsequent study has told us that this is probably half enough. so we wonder whether we should continue to maintain such a high figure for a project whose scope and utility are not yet well understood: firstly, because we have more serious emergencies, the example of the mediterranean emergency is quite valid and i think resources should be allocated to it. secondly, because it is not well understood how these intelligent borders were going to interact with the information system of schengen, which is more or less the same thing anyway. so until we have definite data on limits and costs, it's hard to make any estimates.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the absence of internal border controls and the increasing number of travellers arriving from third countries require effective and efficient management of the european union's external borders. the council, in its strategic guidelines for the area of freedom, security and justice adopted in june 2014, also called for more modern measures in the area of border management and these new measures were eventually included in the so-called smart borders package. however, i cannot help stressing that these proposals raise certain problems in respect of fundamental rights: the new border controls are in fact centred on the use of a new computerised entry and exit system. in this respect, my main concern is the maintenance of records containing a substantial amount of personal and biometric data. we must not rush to adopt legislation which is not fully in line with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the need for a thorough assessment of the compatibility of the legislative proposal with articles 7 and 8 of the charter was reiterated by the european data protection supervisor in an opinion some time ago. and that assessment, and i would also like to stress this, must also be made in the light of the judgment of the court of justice on data retention. i therefore ask the commission to assess carefully the compatibility of the legislative proposal with the charter of fundamental rights, as well as the cost-benefit profile, taking into account also the results of the current pilot project.
in writing. if the european commission's objective is to make border management modern and efficient, then we can only agree. however, the reform of 'smart borders' proposed by the ec, also following the adoption of the security agenda and the migration agenda, requires a deep reflection to escape the real concerns that exist for the excessive attention to security-related issues, which is not commensurate with the current level of risk that exists. the dilemma between what and how much passenger data will have to be used and stored and what the effects of this use will be on the fundamental rights of travellers remains open. i therefore share the very sceptical view expressed by the socialist colleagues who are at the forefront of these matters, because i believe that a new system, which is also expensive, is not necessary, but that it would be enough to make the existing system, based on the vis and the schengen information system (sis ii), work better by updating and strengthening it. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the smart border package and will continue to monitor the implementation of the smart border package. this distinction could lead to real discrimination.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am sorry that commissioner georgieva is not here to answer some of the questions i had to ask, which i would have asked olaf and which i would have asked you, as the commission's representative. at this particular moment, since my movement was born in italy, we are engaged in the fight against fraud, corruption, we are always in the front line to denounce any misuse of public funds. but in this case, there is a battle that i think is more political than substantive, because i want to have information on these 423 open and closed cases in such a short time. i want to understand why they were in a drawer up to that point and i want to have answers to the many questions i have, which is why in the resolution we have tabled on behalf of my group i am asking for a meeting of the committee on budgetary control to clarify these doubts before any decision is taken.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the annual report of the olaf supervisory committee has indeed highlighted a number of criticisms of the work of this body, while olaf in its annual report for 2014 presented last week highlighted the good results of its work on investigations into cases of fraud against the financial interests of the european union. while we appreciate the work of the monitoring committee and respect the institutional role of olaf, which we know is of fundamental importance in the fight against fraud affecting the european union, it is clear that a situation of great tension has now developed between the two bodies. i think that we must therefore be very cautious and i think that we must be more clear about the situation, listening to both bodies before making any decision.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must express my concern about the way in which the supervisory committee and olaf interact, with regard to the lack of method, transparency and procedure. i think it is essential to clarify the role of the supervisory board and to complete its scope. one thing is for sure, we can't wait. fraud is a huge problem. i wanted to talk to you tonight about the findings of the latest report. i'd like to talk about how the numbers and the scale, the quality of these frauds have increased. i would have liked to have mentioned that we cannot blame the efficiency of local authorities, but the controls must start in brussels. i would like to speak about the importance of transnational action, european action, and therefore the importance of the european public prosecutor's office in harmonizing national legislation and allowing for greater judicial coordination. what are we doing here? we're the peace builders between two entities, both important in the fight against fraud. as coordinator of my group in the regi committee, i will insist on hearing both olaf and the supervisory committee. this was done in the cont committee?
mr anderson has asked to speak on a point of order.
i'll give you the floor after i make my announcement.
mr anderson, listen to the presidency's statement for a moment, then you can say what you have to say. the group of the european people's party has tabled a number of amendments to the report, which i think are very important. at this point the amendment may only be made on the president's proposal to amend the agenda in accordance with rule 152. in order to enable parliament to vote on the proposed amendment, the president agreed to table this proposal. i therefore put to the vote the proposal to refer the lange report back by roll-call. if there's one representative who wants to speak for the postponement and one representative against the postponement. who wants to speak in favor of the adjournment since the motion has been moved? i think that parliament's will must be respected, because parliament will be voting, it will be the sovereign house that decides what to do, it will be the house that decides what must be done.
a personal note, to let you know that for the vote in plenary on the lange report 116 amendments were tabled, 87 roll-call votes and 10 separate parts. in accordance with rule 175 of the rules of procedure, mr schultz, after consulting the chairman of the committee on international trade, asked the committee to meet to consider these amendments and requests. so the vote was postponed. we are now discussing the debate, whether or not to hold the debate, not the vote, because the vote was postponed under rule 175 by decision of the president.
mr president, you have anticipated me, because at the first stage of this debate it was not clear whether the vote or the debate should be postponed. you have rightly made it clear that the vote is not in question. the vote was suspended by a decision of the president of parliament postponing the motion for a resolution in committee because of the large number of amendments. we have appreciated the wisdom of president schulz, because the problem of parliament is not - i apologize - to show off, but to deliberate. we would betray the confidence of the people if we did not deliberate and in the face of the real risk of not having a resolution president schulz did well and this is not the first time in the history of this parliament. i'm through! question number two: we are not for or against the debate. we can have a debate or we can have a vote when we have a vote. we do not consider this to be a direct question, but the central question is that, in the face of the failure of the groups, not just the majority groups, to reach agreement on the resolution, president schulz wisely decided to postpone the vote to the committee responsible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i share the indignation of those who this morning expressed exactly what the people are thinking. we are a parliament of bureaucrats when it suits us and a parliament of blah-blah when it does not suit the majority. we are truly ashamed. rules are only used when it's convenient and i would like to remind the people in the centre that they are anchored to an old idea. you are in an old ideological idea of right and left, the good of the citizens and common sense decisions are neither right nor left and i am very sorry to say this to you, mr weber. today, the parties on opposite sides of this house are showing common sense. not you in the middle.
the positions are clear, everyone has expressed their position. (parliament adopted the request for a deferral of the debate) the agenda is thus altered. the sitting was suspended until the vote at 12 noon.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
your request this morning was made when the sitting had already been adjourned. now, under rule 191, since 40 members can ask for the sitting to be adjourned, i must put the request for adjournment to the vote. we are doing this by roll call, who wants to adjourn and who does not want to adjourn. a yes vote means adjournment of the sitting, a no vote means continuation of the sitting. (parliament rejected the request)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, according to the rules of procedure, article 152 and i would also like to refer to article 190 with the interpretation given to it, if it is decided to postpone a debate to a later part-session, the date, time and place of the debate must also be indicated. so i request that it be referred to mr schulz, who we need to know when he'll be there. the rules of procedure also require that the time, place and date of adjournment be given. that was not done. so i ask when the vote on ttip will take place and when the debate has been postponed. i propose, since it is possible to defer to inta and do what we have to do to the committee on international trade at the next sittings to set it in july. we can also ask for a vote.
this morning there was no discussion of updating the debate or the vote. it was only discussed and it was decided to postpone the debate because the decision to postpone the vote had already been taken by the president. let us proceed with the votes.
it does not seem to me to be a matter for the agenda.
it's too late to raise the issue, however, the issue is the discretion of the president. so the president decided on his own discretion. - after the vote.
that concludes the voting.
we shall now move on to the explanations of vote.
oral explanations of vote
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ the kyoto ii package incorporates a reduction in co2 emissions that the eu has already set for itself and achieved following the introduction of the 2009 climate-energy package. the ratification of kyoto ii until 2020 is nothing more than a symbolic accession to a protocol from which the major co2 producing countries have already withdrawn precisely because of its ineffectiveness, and for these reasons i did not intend to support the report with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the adoption of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol, which is an important signal from the eu in the fight against climate change. this comes less than 7 months after the start of cop 21 in paris and just days after g7 members committed to take action to limit global temperature rise to 2 degrees by 2050. the extension of the kyoto targets to 2020, as well as the global commitment to reduce co2 emissions by 40-70% by 2050 compared to 2010, appear to be achievable targets and are the key preconditions for the establishment of a binding post-2020 climate agreement. however, the importance of a strong diplomatic effort to involve as many partners as possible, and in particular to commit emerging countries to binding emission reduction targets, should not be underestimated.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the eu's commitment under the kyoto protocol to significantly reduce its co2 emissions is one of the cornerstones of the union's action and that it is therefore necessary to continue along this path.
in writing. ‒ reducing emissions is essential to safeguarding the future of our planet and to counteracting the damage caused by climate change (tropical climate, extreme marine weather, alternating droughts and floods). the union and the member states have committed themselves to achieving the objectives of the kyoto protocol: today we must ratify the doha amendment, which sets the stage for our efforts, and the regulation which will allow us to technically meet the second-period targets of a 21% reduction in emissions by 2020 compared with 2005 levels. the regulation provides the necessary basis for the technical legislative acts for the implementation by the eu and the member states of the second commitment period. it is undeniable that the decision to ratify the doha amendment and the fulfilment of the commitments by the union will be of great importance: this is a strong signal in the fight against global climate change, which attests to the union's leadership in this area. the political, economic and environmental importance of the kyoto protocol means that ratification by the member states should be completed by the third quarter of this year, so that they can take a definite, unified and consolidated position at the unfccc conference in paris.
in writing. - i voted against the measure. kyoto ii incorporates the -20% co2 that the eu set for itself with the 2009 climate and energy package. it barely covers 15% of global co2 emissions.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and the joint fulfilment of the commitments thereunder. the 1992 united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc) sought to limit the rise in global temperature, but it was clear as early as 1995 that the agreement would not be enough. countries around the world have therefore started negotiations to improve the global response to climate change and in 1997 adopted the kyoto protocol, which sets an internationally binding emission reduction target. the eu and its member states have therefore committed to delivering on their commitment to reduce their overall greenhouse gas emissions in the first period (2008-2012) by 8% compared to 1990 levels. the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period of the kyoto protocol (kp cp2), which begins on 1 january 2013 and ends on 31 december 2020, and provides for legally binding emission reduction commitments under which the european union. i am therefore glad that the european parliament voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change, signed in 1997, establishes an internationally binding emission reduction target. the eu ratified the same protocol in 2002. the so-called 'doha amendment' establishes a second commitment period of the kyoto protocol ending on 31 december 2020. in the light of the foregoing, i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the recommendation voted on today on the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol is an important signal from the european parliament to the governments of the member states and also to the countries adhering to the kyoto protocol. it is a sign of the eu's renewed commitment to combating climate change. the amendments introduced include the possibility for countries which consider it appropriate to go beyond the emission targets set. the formal ratification of the doha amendment is necessary as it makes a crucial contribution to the pursuit of ambitious global efforts to keep the global temperature rise below 2°c. the european union has been waging an intense battle against climate change in recent years, with its policies and legislation, but a global commitment is needed and the countries involved, many of which are still reluctant to take on the burden of reducing emissions. the adoption of the amendment is an important step ahead of the international climate conference scheduled for paris at the end of the year, where it will be essential to reach a global agreement. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol. the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc), which was signed in 1997, sets an internationally binding emission reduction target. the european union and its member states committed themselves to reducing their overall greenhouse gas emissions in the first period (2008-2012) by 8% compared to 1990 levels. a 20% target was proposed in the council conclusions of 9 march 2012 for the second commitment period (2013-2020) of the kyoto protocol, and was subsequently accepted by the eu member states at the doha climate change conference in december 2012, which was attended by 192 states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol because i am convinced of the importance of reducing the impact of pollution on the atmosphere and i am also convinced that the individual member state would not be able to set itself and achieve such an ambitious target. this amendment provides for a reduction of the average annual greenhouse gas emissions by the member states and iceland for the period 2013-2020 of 80% compared to the baseline year, which is normally 1990. i hope that in the not too distant future we will be able to persuade the countries which have the greatest impact on the world's air pollution to join us, whereas now the whole or almost the whole burden of climate policy rests on europe's shoulders. however, it is only through common climate and environmental policies that the objective of keeping the global temperature rise below 2 degrees will be achieved. i congratulate the rapporteur.
in writing. ‒ the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and the joint fulfilment of its commitments establishes the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol. the amendments to the text of the protocol made by the doha amendment include the inclusion of a new gas (nitrogen trifluoride), the simplification of the procedure to allow a party to adjust its commitment by increasing the level of ambition during the commitment period, and a provision to prevent a party's emissions for the period from 2013 to 2020 from exceeding its average emissions in the period from 2008 to 2010. the amendment does not change the environmental objectives and obligations of the member states as enshrined in the 2009 climate and energy package legislation, but it will send a strong signal about the eu's leadership in this area. i therefore voted in favour of this report in the light of these facts.
in writing. ‒ in december 2012, at the doha climate change conference, the 192 parties to the kyoto protocol to the un framework convention on climate change adopted an amendment to the kyoto protocol, which is intended to make the kyoto protocol more binding. this doha amendment establishes a second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, starting from 10 january 2013 and ending on 31 december 2020, with legally binding emission reduction commitments. under the doha amendment, the eu, its member states and iceland commit to limiting their greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions in the years 2013-2020 to 80% of their baseline year emissions. for these reasons, i vote in favour.
in writing. - we reiterate the vote against. to be in favour of a greener world does not mean imposing limitations and disadvantages on europe and its own businesses alone.
in writing. ‒ the text, which i was rapporteur for, constitutes the legal basis for the conclusion by the eu of the doha amendment, and is also a necessary measure to allow for the swift ratification of the agreements by the member states. it is right and appropriate that the eu continues to play a leading role in the field of climate change, but it cannot remain the sole actor in making binding commitments, as has too often happened in the past. these are very important commitments, which unfortunately are largely taken up by european countries alone, while some of the most polluting countries do not participate. in this regard, the eu must use all possible political, diplomatic and economic instruments to ensure that the most comprehensive international agreement is reached at cop21.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the council decision on the conclusion, under the eu, of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the un framework convention on climate change because i believe that the fight against climate change and the protection of our planet are fundamental challenges for world politics, as confirmed by recent discussions at the g7. the eu is and must remain at the forefront of international negotiations, with the ambition of a bold agreement that protects the environment and reduces greenhouse gas emissions. the doha amendment, mandating an 80% reduction in average annual greenhouse gas emissions over the period 2013-20 compared to 1990 levels, is a step in the right direction. it is therefore crucial that the eu ratifies it and that all member states implement it by the third quarter of 2015 in order to present a strong position at the paris negotiations.
in writing. the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period of the kyoto protocol (kp cp2), which begins on 1 january 2013 and ends on 31 december 2020, and provides for legally binding emission reduction commitments under which the european union commits to limiting its average annual greenhouse gas emissions over the period 2013-2020 to 80% of its baseline year (typically 1990). the lima call, adopted at the 20th conference of the parties in december 2014, encourages all 192 parties to the kyoto protocol to ratify the amendment. as of 14 may 2015, the amendment had been ratified by 31 countries but, in order to enter into force, it needs to be ratified by 144 parties. i voted in favour of this proposal because it represents a step forward towards full ratification and once again underlines the leadership of the eu and its member states on climate change.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol. the aim of this protocol, signed in 1997, is to reduce internationally binding emissions, thus making a key contribution to global efforts to tackle climate change. i believe that it is of the utmost importance to make legally binding commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, so that we can make all the climate commitments and so that europe can help to make the commitments made effective at international level.
in writing. ‒ the kyoto protocol, signed by the eu in 2002, aims at internationally binding emission reductions. the doha amendment opens a second phase of implementation of the protocol, which will end on 31 december 2020. it provides for legally binding commitments under which the eu, its member states and iceland commit to limiting their average annual greenhouse gas emissions over the period 2013 to 2020 by 80%. i voted in favour of mrs gardini's report because i believe that we need to do more to combat climate change.
in writing. ‒ the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period of the kyoto protocol (between 1 january 2013 and 31 december 2020) and provides for legally binding emission reduction commitments under which the european union, its member states and iceland commit to limiting their average annual greenhouse gas emissions to 80% of their respective emissions in the base year (typically 1990). we therefore welcome the draft council decision on its conclusion. we regret, however, that some of the most polluting countries did not participate. we believe that the european union cannot continue to be the sole holder of all its climate commitments, and that any new international agreement will have to be ambitious but also more realistic if the objective of keeping the global temperature rise below 2°c is to be met. our decision to ratify today will certainly send a strong signal about the efforts and leadership of the eu and its member states in tackling climate change internationally. we therefore call on the council to ensure that the national ratification processes in the member states can take place by the third quarter of 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mrs gardini's report because i believe that the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and the joint fulfilment of commitments by the european union is the right way to tackle these problems at international level. this document finally marks a new stage in which the european union, its member states and iceland commit themselves, through binding targets, to jointly reduce annual greenhouse gas emissions. i therefore hope that the national ratification processes in the member states can take place as soon as possible and that the member states and the union can deposit their instruments of acceptance well before the unfccc conference scheduled for paris.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol. the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, which began on 1 january 2013 and will end on 31 december 2020, and provides for legally binding emission reduction commitments under which the european union, its member states and iceland commit to reducing their average annual greenhouse gas emissions by 20% compared to 1990 levels over the period 2013-2020. i therefore believe that the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint fulfilment of commitments by the european union will send a strong signal on the efforts and leadership of the eu and its member states in tackling climate change at international level. i therefore consider the entry into force of the doha amendment to be one of the european union's priority objectives, as the kyoto protocol makes a crucial contribution to global efforts to tackle climate change.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the committee on industry, research and energy, i have followed with particular attention the discussions on the kyoto protocol and specifically the doha amendment which establishes a second commitment period for states to limit emissions to 80% of 1990 levels. i voted in favour because i believe that by ratifying it before the end of the year, when the 21st conference of the parties (cop 21) to the united nations framework convention on climate change will take place, eu member states will be setting a good example at international level. i thank mrs gardini for her excellent report.
in writing. ‒ i gave my approval to the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol because it is of the utmost importance that a second period of legally binding commitments by the eu to reduce average annual greenhouse gas emissions is established. given the priority of the topic, i hope that the eu will take all possible measures to convince some of the most polluting countries, which are not part of it, to sign a binding international agreement, so that climate commitments are shared and the goal of keeping the global temperature rise below 2°c is achieved.
in writing. ‒ the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol marks a new phase, which began in 2013 and will end in 2020, in which the european union, its member states and iceland commit themselves through binding targets to jointly reduce annual greenhouse gas emissions. the text presented can only receive a favourable vote from me, in line with the majority of the members of this parliament.
in writing. ‒ i chose to vote against because the extension of the kyoto protocol, which many of the countries responsible for much of the world's co2 production have not joined, will have a marginal and overall negligible effect on the overall amount of co2 put into the atmosphere.
in writing. ‒ in today's vote, the european parliament gave its consent to the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change. the european union therefore commits itself to comply with binding targets to reduce annual greenhouse gas emissions over the period from 1 january 2013 to 31 december 2020. i voted in favour of parliament's recommendation. this decision will help to confirm the eu's key contribution and leadership in the fight against climate change. i would remind you, however, that the second commitment period covers only 14% of global emissions, since the united states, russia, canada, japan and the developing countries are not involved. i therefore hope that the next unfccc conference in paris at the end of 2015 will mark a turning point in this regard, by concluding a new climate agreement that is legally binding and enforceable in a fair manner by all parties. the fight against climate change requires a global political response; it is time for each country to take its own responsibility.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change, signed in 1997 to establish a binding international greenhouse gas emission reduction target. the doha amendment is key to achieving the global emission reduction targets, as it establishes a second commitment period of the kyoto protocol (2013-2020) and provides for legally binding commitments under which the eu commits to a significant reduction in average annual greenhouse gas emissions compared to the baseline year, typically 1990. the draft council decision therefore provides the basis for the conclusion of the doha amendment by the union and lays down the conditions for the joint fulfilment of those commitments. the conclusion of the doha amendment and the commitments thereunder will send a strong signal of the union's efforts and leadership in addressing global climate change in the run-up to the unfccc paris conference in 2015. at this point, it is therefore crucial that member states conclude their national ratification processes swiftly, before the important date in paris later this year.
in writing. ‒ the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period for the kyoto protocol, from 1 january 2013 to 31 december 2020, and provides for legally binding obligations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. the second phase of the kyoto protocol serves as a bridge to a global post-2020 climate change agreement. in this context, the european union and its member states have jointly - and together with iceland - committed to reducing their emissions over the period 2013-2020 by 20% compared to 1990 levels. we are on the right track, although we could do much more within the union itself, but we know that this is the result of sound policies aimed at achieving defined objectives and we will not tire of reaffirming commitments, also taking into account the needs of our enterprises. the formal entry into force of the amendment is an essential step towards achieving the eu's priority objectives, as the kyoto protocol makes a crucial contribution to global efforts to tackle climate change. the entry into force of the doha amendment is an important step ahead of the paris conference, where we call on everyone to commit themselves to reaching a comprehensive agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted today for parliament to give its consent to the ratification of the doha agreements of december 2012. i think it is important that the european union sends a strong signal to the other world powers by showing its leadership in the fight against climate change in the international context. these agreements commit the union to reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020. i find that, although the european union is already implementing similar reduction targets under the climate and energy package, european ratification is an important step towards the entry into force of the agreements.
in writing. i welcome today's vote as i believe that the ratification by the european union of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol is a step in the right direction, also in view of cop21 in november. in view of this important event, it is essential that we work towards a legally binding agreement for all countries in paris, with the full involvement and commitment of both the united states and the emerging countries, which are responsible for a large proportion of greenhouse gas emissions. the european union must send a strong signal in the fight against climate change and show itself as a leader in the fight by adopting a comprehensive strategy. finally, i would like to stress the importance of the conclusions of the g7 in bavaria, where leaders affirmed the need to take urgent and concrete action to tackle climate change as soon as possible, and the need to keep global temperature rise to within the two-degree limit and to reduce emissions by 40 to 70% by 2050 compared to 2010 levels.
oral explanations of vote
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ the kyoto ii package incorporates a reduction in co2 emissions that the eu has already set for itself and achieved following the introduction of the 2009 climate-energy package. the ratification of kyoto ii until 2020 is nothing more than a symbolic accession to a protocol from which the major co2 producing countries have already withdrawn precisely because of its ineffectiveness, and for these reasons i did not intend to support the report with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the eu-iceland agreement on iceland's participation in the second commitment period under the kyoto protocol is a demonstration of the importance of the union's role in the fight against global warming at international level.
in writing. ‒ the participation of iceland, a virtuous country which has significantly reduced its emissions over the past five years and which is a positive model for most of the technologically advanced states, in the agreement which marks the start of the second phase of the kyoto protocol is certainly to be welcomed and supported politically. the participation of the republic of iceland in the joint achievement of the objectives set out in the doha amendment should encourage us to be ambitious and not to be satisfied with the results achieved: there is still a long way to go to build a technologically advanced and environmentally sustainable civilization. we need to create a legal framework that is binding on all countries, pushing them to achieve their goals in a clear and fair way, adapted to the economic and environmental conditions of their territory. we can do this together, by sharing best practices and devising new development models. the fight against climate change is not a fight between countries or between peoples: it is a struggle of human civilization against the polluting factors that threaten its prosperity and development. it is a fight we can only win if we work together, united for the good of that great common home that is our planet.
in writing. - i voted against it. kyoto ii is an inadequate and ineffective agreement, and the problem must be solved in a different way.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation today because i believe that the agreement between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and iceland, on the other, on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol will be a strong signal that will highlight coordinated european efforts to combat climate change at international level. iceland is interested in joint fulfilment with the eu and its member states irrespective of its membership of the eu or not. therefore, the accession negotiations between iceland and the eu should have no impact on the joint fulfilment of the commitment agreed between the eu, member states and iceland for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol. i therefore believe that the council decision on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments under the kyoto protocol should be ratified without undue delay and certainly well before the paris climate conference in november.
in writing. ‒ this agreement will allow iceland to participate in the joint implementation of the kyoto protocol on the same basis as the member states. the protection of the environment is fundamental and every state on the planet should be involved.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure on the eu-iceland agreement on iceland's participation in the kyoto protocol. the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc), which was signed in 1997, sets an internationally binding emission reduction target. the european union and its member states committed themselves to reducing their overall greenhouse gas emissions in the first period (2008-2012) by 8% compared to 1990 levels. in the council conclusions of 9 march 2012, a 20% target was proposed for the second commitment period (2013-2020) of the kyoto protocol, and then accepted by eu member states at the doha climate change conference in december 2012, which was attended by 192 states. since iceland is not a member state of the european union, the terms of its participation have been laid down in an international agreement between the eu and iceland.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement which will allow iceland to participate in the second commitment period under the kyoto protocol established by the doha amendment. this means that the countries that make up the european union and iceland will jointly meet their emission commitments. i am in favour of iceland's participation because it has already demonstrated by its participation in annex i of the kyoto protocol that it is able to meet and deliver on its commitments, reducing its emissions by an average of 2%. the fact that iceland is not part of the european union further underlines the coordinated european efforts in the fight against climate change at the international level. the conclusion of this agreement with iceland will not affect the content of the accession negotiations between the two countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-iceland agreement on iceland's participation in the second commitment period under the kyoto protocol. iceland is a party to annex i to the kyoto protocol and in 2009 expressed its intention to fulfil its commitments in a second period of implementation of that protocol. i believe that the eu-iceland report on environmental policy represents a further opportunity to renew our joint commitment to tackling climate change at international level.
in writing. ‒ this agreement will allow iceland to participate in the joint implementation of the kyoto protocol on the same basis as the member states. as parties to the kyoto protocol, the union and the member states are subject to a number of monitoring, reporting and verification obligations under the kyoto protocol. for those contracting parties which have agreed to fulfil their commitments jointly, some of this information must be submitted jointly. the commission will request information from iceland that will enable the union to fulfil its reporting obligations. in addition, iceland will have to participate in the system of registries of the union and its member states that are relevant for the fulfilment of the obligations under the kyoto protocol. this requires iceland to apply union legislation not applicable to third countries, in particular as regards the monitoring, reporting and verification of emissions, as well as the operation of the registry and the accounting of transactions related to the implementation of the commitments of the union, its member states and iceland under the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol in line with the joint fulfilment deadlines and internationally agreed standards. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour.
in writing. i am in favour of the conclusion of the agreement in question, signed by the union and iceland on 1 april 2015, as in 2012 the 192 parties to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change adopted an amendment to the protocol (the doha amendment). that amendment established a second commitment period, from 1 january 2013 to 31 december 2020, with a binding emission reduction target for the parties (including the european union, the member states and iceland). the 144 ratifications required for its entry into force are now only 32. this shows how far we are from the finish line. in any event, the eu and its member states have chosen to fulfil the commitments under the kyoto protocol jointly. the commission notes that the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have not fulfilled their obligations under the agreement. once the joint commitment is fulfilled, those parties are considered to have met their emission obligations under the kyoto protocol. if not, each party becomes responsible for its individual emission level.
in writing. - we reiterate the vote against. to be in favour of a greener world does not mean imposing limitations and disadvantages on europe and its own businesses alone.
in writing. ‒ iceland is a country that has taken part in the commitments of the first part of the kyoto protocol and has expressed its interest in being able to take part in the second commitment period of the same protocol, within the framework of the united nations framework convention on climate change. so far iceland has largely fulfilled all its climate commitments and is already participating with us in the ets programme and the mmr mechanism. with the entry into force of the doha amendment and also of cop21, it is necessary to proceed with the most inclusive perspective possible. we therefore welcome the commitments made by iceland and renew our confidence in a fruitful and wider cooperation. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the further reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the renewed commitment to the kyoto protocol, sealed by the conclusion of the doha amendment, is an important testament to the struggle of the union and its member states, together with iceland, to take further steps forward in the strategy to combat pollution and tackle global climate change. i am glad that the amendment has been ratified, because it means that we are taking a more responsible approach to the big event of the 2015 paris conference, setting ourselves ambitious targets for the global climate agreement, which will not only affect the amount of emissions of our countries, but also plans for growth, development, investment and employment, capable of envisaging new forms of energy production and consumption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's position on the council decision on the conclusion of the eu-iceland agreement and iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the commitments of the eu, its member states and iceland for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol to the un framework convention on climate change. the climate change negotiations are at a crucial stage with the paris conference approaching. the recent discussions at the g7, culminating in the agreement reached by the leaders of the 7 participating countries, are a key step towards an ambitious, comprehensive and legally binding agreement for all. the difficulties in convincing the emerging countries require unity and firmness on the part of the eu, which must take the lead in the negotiations and become a driving force. it is therefore essential to have a united and shared position. iceland, which is a party to the kyoto protocol, has adopted the doha amendment and is calling for a joint commitment with the eu to respect the limits set therein. i therefore believe that it is necessary to support this process, given that iceland is part of the european economic area, already participates in the ets and mmr systems and shares the european climate policy, and that such a decision would represent a further sign of unity before the international partners.
in writing. parliament has approved this proposal, of which i am the rapporteur, by an overwhelming majority. i believe that the agreement between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and iceland, on the other, on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, will be a strong signal that will highlight coordinated european efforts to combat climate change at international level, especially in view of the forthcoming cop 21 in paris. the european union is a world leader in the fight against climate change and has always supported an ambitious climate policy. we will do so also in the run-up to paris, by stepping up efforts to achieve an agreement that is ambitious, comprehensive and legally binding.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the agreement on iceland's participation in the second commitment period under the kyoto protocol, whereby the eu, its member states and iceland jointly commit to limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions to 80% of their respective emissions in the base year. the participation of iceland is a strong signal that underlines coordinated european efforts to combat climate change at international level and contributes to the fulfilment of the union's reporting obligations for the second commitment period under the kyoto protocol.
in writing. ‒ the agreement between the european union, its member states and iceland on iceland's participation in the commitments under the kyoto protocol for the second commitment period, as enshrined in the doha amendment, is a strong signal for the fight against climate change at international level. the european union is playing a leading role in the international negotiations on climate change, and i felt it was my duty to support the report by mr la via.
in writing. ‒ the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol and provides for legally binding emission reduction obligations whereby the european union, its member states and iceland jointly commit to limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions. iceland, although not a member state, participates in the eu emissions trading system (ets) and the eu regulation on the monitoring mechanism (mmr) for greenhouse gases. the rights and obligations which apply to member states in the context of joint enforcement should therefore be made applicable to iceland by means of a legislative proposal. our vote today in favour of this participation agreement with iceland will be a strong signal to underline the coordinated european efforts to combat climate change at international level. the european union has long played a leading role in international climate change negotiations and has made a key contribution to the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc) and the kyoto protocol. we believe that we must continue to support the conclusion of a final agreement which is ambitious, comprehensive and legally binding.
in writing. ‒ the report by mr la via examines the proposal for a council decision providing the basis for the signing of the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments under kp cp2 of the unfccc. this document finally marks a new stage in which the european union, its member states and iceland commit themselves, through binding targets, to jointly reduce annual greenhouse gas emissions. i therefore voted in favour of the recommendation because i believe that the two council decisions on the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments under the kyoto protocol should be ratified in parallel without undue delay and certainly well before the paris conference of the unfccc.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that the inclusion of iceland alongside the eu in the second kyoto protocol, the so-called doha amendment, can act as an incentive for other states to follow the european example on a path to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. i thank my colleague mr la via for his excellent work.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the joint fulfilment mechanism, which is a specific feature of the kyoto protocol, is a valid means for the parties to commit themselves to meeting their emission reduction obligations. if the joint commitment is not met, each participant is individually responsible for its own level of emissions. i believe that this gives the participants greater incentive to fulfil their commitments. i welcome the interest and participation of iceland, i voted in favour of the second period of joint fulfilment of iceland with the eu and its member states. i hope that all participants will respect the emission levels set by the kyoto protocol.
in writing. ‒ by voting in favour of the text tabled by mr la via, parliament will give the go-ahead to the conclusion of the agreements between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and iceland, on the other, concerning iceland's participation in the second commitment period under the kyoto protocol. we must remember that iceland is not a member state of the union, and the terms of its participation have therefore been laid down in a separate international agreement.
in writing. ‒ i chose to vote against because i consider the effects of the kyoto protocol on the amount of co2 in the atmosphere globally to be marginal.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the european parliament's recommendation to allow for the swift ratification of the agreement between the european union, the member states and iceland, which expresses the parties' intention to jointly achieve their greenhouse gas emission reduction targets, within the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol. this decision has the merit of reaffirming the importance of international cooperation in the fight against climate change. iceland will be required to apply some of the european union's rules on monitoring, reporting and verifying emissions, and to provide all information that will enable the eu to meet its reporting obligations. joint compliance will therefore entail the same rights, rules and, above all, the necessary sharing of efforts for an effective reduction of emissions. i hope that this approach will soon be part of the wider framework of a climate agreement, involving the entire international community.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft agreement proposed by the council on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the commitments of the european union and its member states for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change. as a contracting party to the kyoto protocol, iceland expressed its intention in 2009 to fulfil its commitments in the second commitment period jointly with the eu and its member states. this decision builds on and builds on existing cooperation on the implementation of commitments to combat climate change. despite the suspension of eu accession negotiations, iceland is participating in the ets and the eu regulation on the monitoring mechanism for greenhouse gases. this collaboration is significant in view of the unfccc paris conference as it highlights coordinated european efforts to combat climate change at international level and the leading role of the european union in this field.
in writing. ‒ the g7 international climate summit finally resulted in an agreement setting a binding target for the containment of global temperature and the creation of a fund for initiatives in developing countries. we are on the right track, but the paris conference will have to ensure that the global agreement is binding on all countries, including those emerging countries which are often among the most polluting. much has been done from kyoto to paris, but a joint commitment by all member states and third countries is needed to combat climate change. the european institutions play a decisive role in international negotiations and we can only welcome this agreement with iceland which reaffirms a commitment to ambitious, comprehensive and legally binding targets.
in writing. ‒ i voted today for parliament to give its consent to the conclusion of the eu-iceland bilateral agreement on compliance with the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol. as a member of the european economic area, iceland is already participating in the greenhouse gas emissions trading system. i think it is important that the commitments made on climate change be extended to european countries outside the union.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ the report is not particularly critical and is fully acceptable. the aim is to update, following the accession of croatia to the union, the eu convention on facilitating assistance between judicial, police and customs authorities in criminal matters. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted 'yes' to this resolution because i believe that croatia, as a new member state, should participate in all conventions concluded within the framework of the union, including the one on judicial assistance in criminal matters.
in writing. - i voted yes. the aim of the convention to which croatia will accede is to facilitate assistance between judicial, police and customs authorities in criminal matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of croatia, the last member state to join the union, joining the convention so that it too is a party to it and subject to the same rules as those already applicable to the other member states.
in writing. ‒ almost two years after croatia's accession to the eu, it is important to ensure that the convention of 29 may 2000 on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states and the protocol of 16 october 2001 thereto are fully operational for croatia. those instruments are designed to facilitate assistance between judicial, police and customs authorities through a series of mechanisms, such as the temporary transfer or transit of detained persons, the transmission of notifications, the direct exchange of information between the authorities concerned, the making available of stolen goods for return to the owner, and the hearing of witnesses or experts, including by videoconference. the convention also deals with measures of major importance in the fight against crime, particularly organised crime, such as the setting up of joint investigation teams, the use of infiltration operations and the interception of telecommunications. the recommendation, which is adopted by this legislative resolution, is a necessary measure to resolve certain technical issues related to croatia's accession to the abovementioned convention and protocol, and therefore, on the basis of the foregoing considerations, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure under consideration concerning the accession of croatia to the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters. the text is technical in nature and aims to make the necessary adjustments following the accession of the republic of croatia to the convention and the protocol in accordance with article 3 (4) and (5) of the act of accession of croatia to the european union as the 28th member state on 1 july 2013.
in writing. ‒ croatia's accession to the european union implies its automatic accession to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states. however, the council shall adopt a decision fixing the date on which those conventions enter into force for croatia. the publication of this convention will remove any doubt as to its entry into force on the twentieth day following the date of its publication. in the absence of controversial political issues, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ on the basis of article 3 (4) and (5) of the act of accession, the commission recommends that the necessary adaptations be made for the participation of croatia in the convention of 29 may 2000 on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union and its protocol of 16 october 2001. i welcome the commission's recommendation and hope that further progress can be made, for example in the reform of the judiciary and public administration, the fight against corruption and organised crime, and the protection of minorities.
in writing. ‒ the 2012 act on the conditions of accession of croatia to the eu has simplified its accession to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states under article 34 of the eu treaty. it is no longer necessary to negotiate and conclude specific accession protocols, article 3 (4) and (5) of the act of accession simply states that croatia accedes to the conventions and protocols by virtue of the act of accession. the act of accession provides for the council to adopt a decision fixing the date on which those conventions enter into force for croatia and to make any necessary adjustments to the conventions by reason of the accession of the new member state. annex i to the act of accession lists the six protocols and conventions concerned in the field of justice and home affairs. the list includes the council convention of 29 may 2000 pursuant to article 34 of the treaty on european union on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the eu and its protocol of 16 october 2011. i voted in favour of the report because the aim of the recommendation is to make the necessary adjustments as a result of croatia's accession to the convention and the protocol referred to, in accordance with the act of accession.
in writing. ‒ it is essential to facilitate and improve assistance between judicial authorities in criminal matters also vis-à-vis croatia. i can only vote in favour of any action which will make available as soon as possible all the instruments provided for in european law for the exchange of information and cooperation between european states in this field. we must insist on this direction in order to prosecute crimes and offences more effectively and more quickly, while respecting the fundamental principles of the different legal systems of the member states and respecting individual rights. the fight against crime, in particular organised crime, money laundering and financial crime, cannot be confined to the narrow confines of national borders but must go beyond them. all my actions in this struggle will always be informed by the need to ensure that it acquires a greater european and cross-border character.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the convention which croatia will now join in order to facilitate assistance between judicial, police and customs authorities in criminal matters.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs sippel's proposal on croatia's accession to the convention on legal assistance in criminal matters. the objective of this recommendation is to make the necessary adjustments as a result of the accession of croatia to the convention and the protocol referred to in article 3 (4) and (5) of the act of accession.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of croatia's accession to the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union. the specific objective of the convention, the final text of which was adopted on 29 may 2000, is to complement, and not replace, existing conventional instruments in other legal areas, with a view to improving judicial cooperation in criminal matters through rapid, effective assistance compatible with the fundamental principles of the internal law of the member states and with the principles of the european convention on human rights of 1950.
in writing. ‒ the 2012 act concerning the conditions of accession of the republic of croatia to the european union simplified the procedures for the accession of the new member state to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states pursuant to article 34 of the treaty on european union. i voted in favour of the sippel report because i think it would be desirable to facilitate relations with croatia, including in the area of legal aid for criminal offences.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the recommendation adopted here today is simply to make the necessary adjustments following the accession of croatia to the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union, in accordance with article 3 (4) and (5) of the act of accession. this is a purely technical matter which raises no legal or political problems.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this commission recommendation for a council decision is to make the necessary amendments by virtue of the accession of croatia to the convention and the protocol referred to in article 3 (4) and (5) of the 2012 act concerning the conditions of accession to the european union. the act simplified its accession to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states pursuant to article 34 of the treaty on european union (former article k.3 teu). it is no longer necessary, as in the past, to negotiate and conclude specific accession protocols (with the consequent ratification of the 28 member states). article 3 (4) and (5) simply states that croatia accedes to the conventions and protocols by virtue of the act. for the reasons i have just mentioned, i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mrs sippel's report because i believe that more clarity is needed on the entry into force of the convention of 29 may on mutual assistance in criminal matters between member states, to which croatia automatically acceded following its accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ this is a mandatory step when a new member state joins the eu and i naturally voted in favour. croatia merely accedes to the eu convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters. it is then for the council to make the adjustments to the convention which are necessary following the accession of croatia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr sippel, which is purely technical in nature and which essentially allows croatia, the last country in chronological order to have acceded to the european union, to accede to the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i recognise the importance of facilitating assistance between the judicial, police and customs authorities of the member states in criminal matters.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ the hyusmenova report is fully agreeable and does not present any particular criticisms. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the new eu-croatia association agreement on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or of the member states of the european union. for all these reasons i supported it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted 'yes' to this resolution because i believe that croatia, as a new member state, should participate in all conventions concluded within the framework of the union, including the one on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or of the member states.
in writing. - i voted yes. the accession of croatia to the convention is hereby confirmed. i am not going to vote for the report.
in writing. ‒ it is important that croatia, as a new eu member state, should also be subject to the rules developed within the eu on the fight against corruption, and i therefore voted in favour of this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure under consideration concerning the accession of croatia to the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european community or of the member states. the text is technical in nature and aims to make the necessary adjustments following the accession of the republic of croatia to the convention and the protocol in accordance with article 3 (4) and (5) of the act of accession of croatia to the european union as the 28th member state on 1 july 2013.
in writing. ‒ as in the previous report, this is a technical adjustment, with no political implications. the vote by the european parliament is a formality, necessary to avoid hasty decisions being taken, but at the same time taken for granted in this specific case. i voted in favour of course.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report by mr hyusmenova, which essentially deals with a procedural question relating to the detection of a technical error affecting the provision of the commission recommendation concerning the date of entry into force of the convention of 26 may 1997 between croatia and the member states.
in writing. ‒ the act of accession of croatia in 2011 introduced a simplified system for croatia's accession to conventions concluded by member states on the basis of article 34 teu. article 3 (4) and (5) of the act provides that croatia accedes to the conventions and protocols by virtue of the act of accession. the act of accession provides for the council to adopt a decision fixing the date on which those conventions enter into force for croatia and to make any necessary adjustments to those conventions by reason of the accession of the new member state. the council shall act unanimously on a recommendation from the commission and after consulting the european parliament. annex i to the act of accession lists the conventions and protocols concerned. the list includes the convention of 26 may 1997 on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or eu member states. i am voting in favour of the report because the commission's recommendation for a council decision is intended to make the necessary adjustments as a result of croatia's accession to the abovementioned convention, in accordance with the act of accession.
in writing. ‒ as in the previous vote, i voted in favour of the convention which croatia will now join in order to facilitate the fight against corruption.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs hyusmenova's proposal for croatia to accede to the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or of the member states. the recommendation is intended to make the adjustments necessary as a result of the accession of croatia to the abovementioned convention, in accordance with article 3 (4) and (5) of the act of accession.
in writing. ‒ i supported croatia's accession to the convention of 26 may 1997 on the fight against corruption, which involves officials of the european communities or of eu member states on the basis of article k.3 (2) (c) of the treaty on european union. the convention against corruption is necessary to improve judicial cooperation in criminal matters. member states consider that improving judicial cooperation in the fight against corruption is a matter of common interest.
in writing. ‒ the 2012 act concerning the conditions of accession of the republic of croatia to the european union has simplified the accession of the republic of croatia to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states pursuant to article 34 of the treaty on european union. in order to support full participation of croatia in the activities of the european union, i have decided to vote in favour of this document, which enshrines the accession of the new member state to the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the recommendation adopted today is simply to make the necessary adjustments following croatia's accession to the pif convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or of the member states of the european union. this is a purely technical matter which raises no legal or political problems.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this commission recommendation for a council decision is to make the necessary amendments by virtue of the accession of croatia to the convention against corruption, in accordance with article 3 (4) and (5) of the 2012 act concerning the conditions of accession to the european union. the act simplified its accession to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states pursuant to article 34 of the treaty on european union (former article k.3 teu). it is no longer necessary, as in the past, to negotiate and conclude specific accession protocols (with the consequent ratification of the 28 member states). article 3 (4) and (5) simply states that croatia accedes to the conventions and protocols by virtue of the act. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the requirement of publication in the official journal should be clear and should not give rise to any doubt as to the entry into force of the convention on the fight against corruption involving national and/or european officials.
in writing. ‒ again, this is a mandatory change as a result of croatia's accession to the eu, so my vote is in favour. in the case of the specific convention, it is the council's task to make the necessary adjustments to adapt it to the accession of the new member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text presented by mr hyusmenova. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the european communities' financial interests against fraud and other irregularities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as this is merely the act of accession of croatia to the convention in question.
oral explanations of vote
written declarations of vote
in writing. - i do not agree with the policy that europe is pursuing against russia. the only result of the decisions taken so far by the eu has been the creation of the sanctions system which is causing enormous economic damage to the european market, particularly the venetian and italian markets. the european union's persistence in its positions will only worsen the disastrous economic situation we are experiencing. for all these reasons i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i share its conclusions. i believe that russia is acting in a hostile manner towards the international community and the eu. i hope, however, that relations between us and the russian federation will be normalized so that we can create a strategic partnership in the future.
in writing. ‒ russia is a natural partner of the european union and the eu's policy of building a mutually beneficial strategic partnership, based on shared values of democracy and the rule of law, as well as common economic interests, has been corrected. however, the russian leadership chose not to reciprocate the trust that the union had given by committing serious violations of human and political rights (incarceration of political opponents, severe restriction of freedom of the press and of opinion, discriminatory campaigns against religious, political or lgbt minorities) and violating the principles of good neighbourliness by occupying the georgian regions of abkhazia and ossetia, by intervening militarily within the territorial borders of ukraine and illegally annexing crimea, by supporting serious initiatives of political destabilisation in ukraine, moldova, georgia and armenia, by repeatedly violating the union's air and maritime space, by endangering the security of civilian flights, and by violating agreements on non-violent regulation of military proliferation and regulation of the war apparatus. the situation has reached such a level of severity that it is intolerable: the solution is political and we must use the diplomatic and economic soft power that the union and its allies have to target the russian leadership and contain the impact on the civilian population.
in writing. ‒ i voted against, the report is biased and full of anti-russian prejudices. the anti-russian policy imposed on the eu by the americans must be reversed, russia is an important partner for our companies and moscow is certainly not an enemy, but it should be more involved in european development policies.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the state of eu-russia relations to underline that the european union must re-examine its relations with russia, which currently appear to be compromised by the latter's destabilising actions. with its aggression against ukraine and its annexation of crimea, the russian leadership has put eu-russia relations at a crossroads. it is now up to the kremlin to decide the direction: cooperation or greater isolation. i am convinced that the russian people, like all of us, want peace, not war, and, as prime minister putin said in his recent meeting with italian prime minister renzi, want an end to the reduction in trade with the eu due to sanctions. change in russia must come from within, it can and will. in the meantime, we must send a strong message to the russian leadership, stressing our closeness to the victims of its aggression and to those who defend the values on which the eu is founded.
in writing. ‒ the landsbergis report, while initially considering russia a strategic partner, concludes that the doors of dialogue with moscow must be closed. the report does not mention that, since the 1990s, europe and the west have gradually relaxed relations with russia, but have never opened up their discussions on their respective needs. the european union has rightly called on moscow to respect human rights, but has failed to point out that the same anti-russian interlocutors, financed by the west, often fail to comply with the requirements of the eu acquis. in general, i am opposed to the approaches to analysis and the prospects for action advocated by the report, and i therefore voted against. russia's strategic capacity, not just economically, makes it a subject with which the eu cannot fail to find a peaceful solution to its disputes. in my view, there is no other solution than diplomacy and soft power. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe to find a way to live in peace and security.
in writing. ‒ i have the impression that there are too many nostalgic for the cold war in the european parliament lately. i do not share this view. i believe that the eu should have a more effective and as far-reaching foreign policy as possible, but that does not mean that we should take counterproductive actions. the eu has so far been distinguished by its use of soft power and i believe that it is appropriate to continue along this path: more dialogue, less sanctions, and that's the way it's going to be. more convenience, and less self-flagellation. we have always left the iron fist to others, and we should continue to do so.
in writing. ‒ the strategic partnership that the european union has established with russia is based on shared values and is characterised by a model of enhanced cooperation that benefits both parties. the ukrainian issue has destabilised some political and trade balances, but it is clearly in the interest of both sides to continue the dialogue in the light of the important common global challenges. i therefore hope that good neighbourly relations will be restored and i shall vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the landsbergis report opens by looking at the efforts made by the eu in recent years to achieve peaceful and open relations with moscow. the report concludes that the door to dialogue with moscow must be closed in the face of repeated violations, from the nagorno-karabakh issue to south ossetia and today's crimea. the european union has rightly called on moscow to respect human rights, but has failed to point out that the same anti-russian interlocutors, financed by the west, often fail to comply with the requirements of the eu acquis. the eu and the whole west's relations with russia have improved over the years with moscow being listed among nato, oecd, g-8 or g-20 partners. the conditionality that is being applied today to moscow is unacceptable, but it should be the same for other international actors with whom the eu has stable relations. i believe that russia's strategic capacity, not just economically, makes it a subject with which the eu must find a peaceful solution to its disputes. i voted against the report because i am opposed to the approaches to analysis and the perspectives for action advocated by it. i believe that any international comparison tool, if it goes beyond the typical eu instruments, risks distorting its function and proving to be counterproductive.
in writing. ‒ with this report, europe concludes that it wants to close the dialogue with russia; it is argued that all the efforts made by the eu to try to maintain a relaxed relationship with moscow have failed, given the multiple human rights violations that russia has committed and is the protagonist of, starting with the nagorno-karabakh issue, passing through crimea and ending with the violation of freedom of the press, expression and rights related to sexual identity. it is perfectly acceptable to find most of moscow's behaviour reprehensible, but it is not acceptable to consider the closure of the dialogue with russia and the eu's abandonment of its soft power as the only viable alternative. what i also find unsatisfactory is the fact that we are using two weights and two measures depending on economic expediency, if on the one hand we want to be intransigent with russia now, on the other hand we are much more willing to accept behaviour from other european partners which is completely outside the acquis communautaire.
in writing. - a shortsighted and crazy relationship. the eu's current stance on this issue is simply suicidal for the majority of eu citizens. chasing the united states into this new cold war is crazy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the state of eu-russia relations because i believe that russia has deliberately acted in recent months to destabilise its neighbours and, consequently, the european union. i am very concerned about the developments in ukraine, and in particular about the situation in crimea, whose illegal annexation has created an atmosphere of growing tension in the whole region, with serious repercussions on the good relations between russia and the eu. the control of the media and intimidation of journalists are a source of tension, as is the gradual increase in pro-russian propaganda and the repression of dissent and free information. i therefore call for full disclosure of all murders of political opponents and activists. on the human rights and lgbti front, i share the need to commit to taking strong action to eradicate homophobia and discrimination in society. i share the call to russia, which remains a strategic partner for the eu, to cooperate in accordance with international law in order to revive international dialogue and cohesion, and i hope that russia will be ready to restore and respect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine.
in writing. in this report, the european parliament reaffirmed russia's direct and indirect involvement in the armed conflict in ukraine, the violation of georgia's territorial integrity and a policy of political destabilisation and economic coercion of neighbouring states. we must firmly condemn any violations of human rights and the rule of law, and instead reward dialogue and cooperation between the european union and russia so that the democratic international order can be fully restored.
in writing. ‒ the report on the state of eu-russia relations covers a number of issues which are currently rather sensitive and complex. on the one hand, relations with a world power which are strained and limited by embargoes and various sanctions with a number of situations to be resolved, on the other hand, a long relationship and a closeness on certain trade issues which deserve to be dealt with. in putting these two realities together, i found abstention to be the most balanced and appropriate choice.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the eu-russia relations, which have been damaged by recent events, would benefit from a proactive, forward-looking approach. i have therefore decided not to vote for this report, which i believe proposes a nihilistic and closure strategy.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote we express our deep concern at the recent escalation in relations with russia, which has always been a strategic partner of the european union. we hope that in the long term constructive relations are possible and desirable for the benefit of both sides, bearing in mind that mutual sanctions are harmful to both economies, that common challenges and interests on the world stage must be addressed jointly and that the fragmented nature of the perception of security in europe can only be overcome through strengthened dialogue. we therefore stress that resumption of cooperation can be considered on condition that russia respects the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine and fully implements the minsk agreements (which include full border control by the ukrainian authorities, unconditional withdrawal of russian troops and armaments and immediate suspension of assistance to rebel groups), while also putting an end to the destabilisation of military and security activities at the borders of eu member states. we reiterate that unconditional respect for the rule of law, the protection of freedom of expression and the rights of minorities are essential and founding principles of the european union and we therefore call for their strict application.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain from voting on the above-mentioned report because i believe that the european union cannot afford to interrupt the dialogue with russia. the isolation of russia is harmful to europe as a whole and to the whole system of international relations. if we are concerned about the prosperity and peace of the continent, we must redouble our efforts to rebuild a relationship with that country.
in writing. ‒ in firmly reaffirming that russia's policy towards ukraine cannot ignore respect for ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, i recognize that at the same time it is necessary to reassure russia on an important point: the eu is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. i believe that a balanced policy of ukraine towards the west and at the same time towards russia is both necessary and beneficial for both sides. i have decided to abstain from voting on this resolution because i believe that it does not take adequate account of the delicate balance achieved in the framework of the minsk ii agreements. at the moment, the only correct way of resolving the crisis is to show the political will to enter into negotiations. to avoid further tensions, official channels for inclusive dialogue with moscow must be kept open. the eu and nato enlargement towards the east is seen by russia as a direct threat to its security and it is the duty of the western countries to understand and share russia's sensitivity on this point. russia is a strategic partner and the eu needs a broad and clear relationship with this great power, which will allow the necessary cooperation in many areas.
in writing. ‒ russia is a key partner for europe without which it is not possible to build an area of security and prosperity. at the same time, recent events in ukraine, not to mention the 2008 military aggression against georgia, together with recent laws restricting press freedom and lgbt rights, are putting eu-russia relations to the test. in recent years moscow has tried to build up political support within the union by funding far-right parties such as the national front in france and jobbik in hungary. i voted in favour because mr landsbergis' report expresses a balanced view of the actions which the eu and the member states are called upon to take in eu-russia relations.
in writing. ‒ in the recent period, and i regret this, we have seen an escalation of tension in relations between the eu and russia. i acknowledge that there have been actions taken by russia that have not respected international law and have created hardship for the people and damaged the economy. despite what has happened, i have chosen to abstain on the resolution because i believe that we must have a long-term vision and aim at a constructive relationship between the eu and russia, in the interests of both and with the prospect of working together on global challenges such as climate change, the middle east peace process, the fight against terrorism and organised crime and cooperation on new technological developments. moreover, the current sanctions are harmful to both economies and the existing relations, which are fragmented, weaken both on the world stage.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by the committee on foreign affairs on the state of relations between the european union and russia. i believe that the key role of europe as a mediator in the difficult relations between the united states and the russian federation should not prevent it from taking a clear and unambiguous position on certain points of view expressed by its partners. while it is good to keep the path of dialogue open, this cannot and must not prevent the eu from expressing a critical view of the policy of president putin, who, through strategic choices that we all know by now, has deliberately violated fundamental democratic rights and values. but a rightly critical assessment of putin's policy must not turn into a condemnation of russia that leads to a total closure of relations between this state and the european union. if we are serious about the prosperity and peace of the continent, we must redouble our efforts to rebuild relations with the russian people.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i consider russia a strategic partner for the european union and i do not share the current european foreign policy towards a country with which we should be engaging in dialogue rather than seeking confrontation.
in writing. ‒ russia remains an important partner of the european union in several areas, including energy security, trade and the fight against terrorism and organised crime. i have therefore decided to vote against the report because i do not think it will help to promote a constructive debate to continue and, above all, to strengthen cooperation between the european union and russia in the long term. i hope that both sides will make a greater effort to try to bring the current crisis in ukraine to an end as soon as possible, in mutual respect of the minsk peace agreements, and thus to prevent any further deterioration in relations. both the russian blacklist, which prevents 89 european politicians and officials from entering russian territory, and the report adopted by the european parliament today risk being counterproductive and having the only effect of exacerbating the climate of growing tension.
in writing. ‒ the landsbergis report is a very serious attempt to sabotage the facts and the peace. it deliberately misrepresents the role of the us and the eu in triggering the crisis in eastern europe. i voted against it. here's what really happened in ukraine and triggered the crisis: yanukovich won democratic elections; the oecd, which is in charge of election monitoring, "promoted the ukrainian vote as 'transparent and honest', http://www.repubblica.it/esteri/2010/02/08/news/ucraina_8_feb-2224351/, after which 'the western encouragement to the anti-government activists of the maidan was certainly neither discreet nor low-level, with the appearance on the square of the foreign ministers of france and germany and senator mccain', http://www.lastampa.it/2014/03/04/culture/opinions/opinions/forcing-of-obama-and-the-italian-life-xd9avm3wxx7uw4vxetfibp/pagina.html. the west should play the mea culpa for helping to overthrow a democratically and lawfully elected head of state: the report, however, reverses the situation and says that russia is challenging the order of the international democratic community. the report also urges the eu to provide financial support to anti-government (or non-governmental) voices in russia. this is called interfering in the internal affairs of a sovereign country. the eu wants to deal with russia in the same way as it dealt with yanukovych's ukraine. the eu is now definitely the eastern branch of nato and wants to lead europe into world war iii.
oral explanations of vote
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ the report contains controversial aspects which at least deserve a less biased examination, which is why i do not find it balanced and do not agree with it. i've decided not to support you with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the recent geopolitical crises have shown the vulnerability of the european union in terms of security and energy supply. to meet this challenge, it is necessary to overcome the idea that each individual member state adopts its own national energy policy in an uncoordinated and unintegrated manner with respect to a general framework of priorities defined at community level. the draft report we voted on today clearly identifies these priorities: diversify sources of supply, improve energy efficiency, develop modern transmission infrastructure and integrate renewable resources more efficiently. the commission will also be working on a new strategy for the energy sector, which will be based on the principle of the internal market and the principle of solidarity between member states. this is a fundamental project which lays the foundations for a future energy union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important that the eu should work towards having its own energy security strategy to ensure a constant and regular supply of energy.
in writing. - i voted against it. the eu's energy policy is wrong and uneconomic. it is pushing away the russian supplier, which is currently the cheapest gas in the world, and is relying on the costly and insufficient development of renewables.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the european energy security strategy. the well-known russian events show that the security and prosperity of the european union require the rational and efficient use of energy, through a constant, accessible and sustainable energy supply. the european union therefore considers the establishment of a european energy union to be of the utmost importance. the eu's energy strategy should also focus on key issues such as the achievement of a fully integrated internal energy market, moderating energy demand, decarbonising the energy mix and research and innovation, the development of renewable energy and its storage. the report touches on all these points and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the report by mr saudargas. the negotiations in the itre committee led to substantial improvements in the initial draft of the report, which allowed it to be rebalanced but not to change its nature; the text remains imbued with a strongly anti-russian and profuse spirit. instead, a focus on energy efficiency and renewables and a moderate and cooperative approach should dominate the union's energy security strategy.
in writing. ‒ energy security remains the major challenge facing the european union in the coming years. the instability in the regions that supply us with energy makes it necessary to achieve an energy union which can be achieved by defining a long-term strategy that can chart the path to increase domestic production. in this scenario, not only is it essential to increase the production capacity and storage of renewable energy but also energy efficiency, where there are more critical considering that it will be difficult to reach the 20% target by 2020. efforts and commitments at all levels are needed, especially by local authorities, which could provide a significant impetus for investing in sustainable public transport and in making public buildings more efficient. the 2014-2020 structural and investment funds can be a very important source of funding to deliver these actions and to trigger the energy mix that will enable the transition to a low-carbon economy and the achievement of european objectives. i therefore voted in favour of the report, but unfortunately the text did not reach a majority in the house.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the european energy security strategy because, although i share the basic approach of rational and efficient energy use, aimed at achieving an energy security situation which would also enable the union to emancipate itself politically from the yoke of its own needs, i felt that i could not express myself in favour of certain points. i do not agree with the total demonization of the use of shale gas which could help to lift us at least partly from dependence on unstable countries. to call it even a low-profile technology before its potential benefits and potential dangers have been scientifically explored seems to me frankly overstated. i also disagree with what has been said on nuclear energy, because even if the subject does not directly concern italy, i believe that the countries which have made use of this technology have had advantages and, aware of the risks inherent in this type of source, i am once again against demonizing it.
in writing. ‒ energy security means political independence, the independence of sovereign states, and the stabilisation of economic growth and democracy in europe. given that the eu still imports 53% of its energy needs, mainly from geopolitically unstable regions, and that some member states are dependent on a single external source of energy supply, the use of oil and natural gas for foreign policy purposes undermines the eu's economic growth and stability. therefore, the signing of an additional protocol would allow for the establishment of a long-term strategy to promote eu energy independence, increase the bargaining power of member states, develop energy technologies, diversify and consolidate supply options, increase consumption efficiency and develop interconnections to link regional energy markets. in this context i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the european energy security strategy provides an opportunity to consider the energy situation in europe. this is a delicate debate and a balanced approach must be found between the need to develop a green vision of the economy and society and the demands of european industry. in this context, security is certainly one of the fundamental elements to be considered also for future generations. the following points should be made about the progress made in recent years in the differentiation of energy sources: in fact, thanks to the increase in renewable sources, the dependence on less secure sources such as nuclear is falling sharply. as regards the issue of security from a geopolitical point of view: so there's a second reason to do, which is about dependency on a business partner. the russian federation. the european union is now heavily dependent on oil, gas, coal and uranium. efforts to diversify further, which also involves reducing costs and risk, must therefore be stepped up. i therefore believe that it is necessary to intensify the debate on this subject both for reasons of economic opportunity and for the proper protection of consumer rights.
in writing. ‒ the strategy was adopted by the commission on 28 may 2014, following a request by the european council to establish a short- and long-term action plan to reduce energy dependence on external sources. the initial text focused on fossil fuels, regasifiers, drilling, new gas pipelines and carbon storage. the commission's communication has a clear political direction: the commission has also proposed that the member states should try to avoid as far as possible the use of russian gas from other sources of supply and at the same time increase domestic energy production, particularly through nuclear energy and the extraction of fossil fuels. this goes hand in hand with the financing of new crossborder infrastructure works, which should improve the interconnection of the european energy network. as m5s, we have managed to amend the text by adding key concepts such as appropriations for energy retrofitting of buildings, emphasising the importance of renewables for european energy security, supporting the eu fracking moratorium and the elimination of fossil and nuclear subsidies. unfortunately, the final text, while approving the moratorium on fracking and the energy conversion of buildings, nevertheless contains several negative elements, such as public subsidies for nuclear energy and an excessive demonization of russia. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ another report that puts the eu out of the global game. instead of building a global dialogue on this issue, they prefer to put the screws to our companies and businesses.
in writing. the ukrainian crisis, as well as the recent call for gazprom, have undoubtedly been two important warning bells that the union cannot and must not underestimate. in the light of all this, and with energy import figures in the eu at 53% (and which unfortunately see italy even more exposed, with energy imports for 80% of consumption needs), trying to act with the utmost urgency to put in place a european energy security strategy can only be a plan that is not only shared, but today increasingly urgent, necessary and a priority. i therefore wholeheartedly support mr saudargas' report, which highlights the main emergencies we are committed to tackling and, above all, the actions and measures which the eu and its member states must take as soon as possible to reduce energy demand and create an internal market which protects us from any political speculation on energy supplies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european strategy for energy security in the eu because the creation of a single energy market is a key issue, responding to economic, industrial, environmental and geopolitical challenges. the eu currently imports 53% of its total energy consumption, mainly oil, gas and solid fuels, from countries with complex geopolitical situations. the russian crisis shows once again the dangers of dependence on a single source of supply. this situation is politically and environmentally unsustainable. the diversification of energy sources is an essential condition for reducing dependence on fossil fuels. we need a new energy paradigm, a new vision for the future, which focuses on european production of renewable energy, energy efficiency and demand moderation, combining production, economic and environmental objectives. i also share the call for the role of local authorities in the definition of energy policies in the regions. it is precisely in this connection that i voted with conviction in favour of the s&d group's call for a moratorium on drilling and shale gas. the diversification of sources must not jeopardize the protection of the environment and the states have a duty to protect our seas by listening to the voice of those areas with a great tourist vocation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because energy policy must be tackled with an effective strategy. more than half of our energy needs are imported from third countries. in 2013, 39% of gas imports came from russia, 33% from norway and 22% from the north african countries algeria and libya. if we look at the situation of those who are our partners today, we understand the urgency of the need to emancipate ourselves. the russian blacklist is just the latest demonstration of the need to diversify external supply. the world geopolitics is changing, the effects on europe are manifesting themselves on several levels. the energy sector is one of the most affected, hence the need for reform. for the safety and well-being of our citizens, energy must harness new technologies, not old diplomatic relations.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on the european energy security strategy. i consider this a matter of great importance, because of its crucial role in confirming europe's strong political and economic position, and so sensitive, because of its specific nature and the different requirements of the various member states, also because of the high costs involved.
in writing. ‒ following the crisis in ukraine, in may 2014 the european commission became a promoter of a european energy security strategy. the itre committee then decided to draw up an own-initiative report on the subject, with mr saudargas in charge of its preparation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the recent conflict in ukraine has certainly reminded european states of the importance of security of energy supply and has underlined the close link between the energy market and its geopolitical context. despite some progress in recent years, the european union still faces challenges such as instability in its energy-supply regions, a fragmented internal market and the fight against climate change. the eu imports 53% of its total energy consumption and many member states still depend on a single external source of supply, which hinders europe's economic growth and endangers internal and eu security. the report adopted today sets out a number of priority actions to moderate energy demand by increasing domestic energy production and developing new energy technologies, with the aim of building a fully integrated and efficient internal market. the commission will continue to promote new energy efficiency, focusing on alternative sources. new technologies could help reduce energy dependence by diversifying and consolidating supply options. as regional integration is a key element of energy security, the eu will need to step up its efforts to implement strategic energy infrastructure projects, fostering solidarity and coordination mechanisms.
in writing. ‒ the european commission, following the crisis in ukraine in may 2014, proposed a european energy security strategy. the itre committee then decided to draw up an own-initiative report on the subject, and asked mr saudargas to draw up it. although i believe that the european union must play a key role in european and international energy policy, i believe that the text, as drafted and presented in this chamber, does not fully reflect the initial forecasts. that's why i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that the eu must complete the single market by adding the energy union to it, and this can only be done by diversifying energy sources and focusing on renewable resources. in the past russia, europe's main supplier of gas, oil, uranium and coal, has blocked the supply of natural gas to ukraine because of disagreements with the country. this has caused inconvenience in many member states which are interconnected to the russian federation via the network crossing ukraine.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the rapporteur when he stresses the importance of energy security for the eu and how vulnerable the energy market can be if we refer to current geopolitics. it is important to stress that, despite the progress made in recent years, there is a need for energy security in the eu. even now, the eu itself imports 53% of its total energy consumption and some member states are still dependent on a single external supplier, which shows how fragile the balance can be and can jeopardise the eu's economic growth. i am in favour of creating an efficient internal energy market by competing among different suppliers with the aim of having reliable services at lower prices but for that very reason, and i have therefore abstained, i do not support the proposal to close trade relations with some partners, because that would undermine the ultimate objective of having reliable energy supplies at competitive prices.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i think the text is too optimistic in identifying the use of important renewable sources as the solution to most of the problems of energy supply at european level. i also believe that the text tends to cross borders in areas which should be primarily the responsibility of the individual member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the european energy security strategy because i consider it of paramount importance that the eu should have a regulatory framework that enables it to ensure the security of energy supply by phasing out its dependence on fossil fuels. i regret that the resolution has been rejected, depriving the european parliament of its voice on this issue. the document contained important proposals to move towards decarbonisation of the economy (such as renewed support for binding targets for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, energy efficiency and the share of energy produced from renewable sources, as part of the 2030 climate package), environmental protection (moratorium on new shale gas exploration, recognition of liability for nuclear operators for environmental risks) and strong support for research to develop new energy technologies. it is necessary for parliament to continue the debate on this subject with an approach based on the combination and integration of energy policy and sustainable growth. i hope that the future debate on the european commission's recent proposal for the creation of the energy union will follow this path.
in writing. ‒ i voted no by helping to reject the saudargas report on energy security. it retained all the essential elements of the european commission's communication, which was more political than aimed at guaranteeing real and lasting energy security and still in the wake of the fossil fuel paradigm. the plant started from the desire to no longer buy russian gas and to supply it by building infrastructure to import it from other areas; through the development of clean coal/ccs, nuclear and drilling to extract more fossil fuels and produce more indigenous energy in the eu. these negative aspects of the report were overwhelming the positive elements that the m5s, thanks to the work of the itre committee, had brought: binding targets for renewables, energy savings and greenhouse gas reduction; the commitment to financially support the energy retrofitting of buildings. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the use of fossil fuels in the transport sector. these parts are my only regret. however, the m5s amendments approved by the itre committee and the vote in plenary against fracking are the sign of an existing majority in the european parliament. i will work to ensure that this will leave its mark on the legislative process.
in writing. ‒ we have today rejected the european energy security strategy adopted by the commission on 28 may 2014 following a request by the european council to establish a short and long-term action plan to reduce energy dependence from abroad. although considerable progress has been made in the negotiations, including greater references in the text to energy democracy, decentralised production, the role of local and citizen initiatives, energy efficiency, the essential role of renewables in the european mix, the need to eliminate subsidies to fossil fuels and the reduction of dependence through measures to moderate demand, the text remains highly controversial. this difficult rebalancing has not been sufficient, and some important questions remain: the text covers all supply and mix options and does not close the door on nuclear or shale gas; the improvements to the text have not changed its nature, which remains very much focused on anti-russian and profossional attitudes. the focus on energy efficiency, renewables and demand moderation should have been dominant in such a strategy.
in writing. ‒ i regret the outcome of today's vote, as i believe that ensuring energy security is one of the main objectives of the european union and this own-initiative report would have been a step in the right direction. it is our task to reduce considerably the eu's dependence on fossil fuels and in particular the dependence of those countries which rely on a single supplier. the eu must lead the shift towards diversifying sources of supply by investing in research and development to increase the potential of renewables and energy efficiency. energy is the engine of sustainable growth in europe and a potential source of new high-quality jobs and new export markets to support our smes. i would also like to stress that growth and development in this area must go hand in hand with environmental protection legislation. it will be our task in the coming months to develop the ideas contained in the commission's communication on the energy union, promoting coherent and effective legislation that can meet the challenges of the future.
oral explanations of vote
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ the resolution analysing the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee contains controversial and unclear aspects, for which reason i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the fight against corruption, fraud and illegal activities is of the utmost importance to the european union. the 2014 annual activity report of the olaf supervisory committee highlighted critical aspects of olaf's work, without any objection from olaf, which has not yet had the opportunity to present its work during the past year to the competent parliamentary committee. without overlooking the important role played by each of the two bodies and in the absence of a thorough analysis of the anomalous situation that has arisen, i think it is appropriate to call for caution and caution, seeking first of all to shed light on the matter and to give both sides the opportunity to clarify their positions. for these reasons i voted in favour of my group's resolution which goes in this direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i believe that olaf has done a better job than the resolution would have us believe and that olaf's role is indeed crucial in combating fraud to the detriment of the union.
in writing. - i abstained on the measure. olaf is an important tool for providing clarity on the expenditure of the eu institutions and against the misuse of eu funds and funding. without prejudice to this principle, it seems to me that the text before us today shows clearly the political aim of certain groups to target certain olaf officials in the hope of influencing their succession.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee: the role of the cor and its scope of action must be made absolutely clear
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i believe that olaf has such an important role that there can be no shadow over its work. if doubts have been raised in this respect, it is clear that some procedures have not been carried out with the necessary transparency. so while i take into account the requests of both the director-general and the supervisory committee, i hope that this motion for a resolution will be a further incentive for these two bodies to work together in a positive and unobstructed way. the european union is not a mere institution, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity. i therefore feel it is important to ensure that the body responsible for this task is also free from any influence.
in writing. ‒ i note with regret that the supervisory committee has repeatedly reported that it has encountered many difficulties in carrying out its supervisory mandate. the supervisory committee should protect the financial interests of the eu in the fight against fraud and should constantly monitor the independence of olaf. i hope that olaf will be able to fulfil its tasks and that an action plan will be drawn up by 31 december this year with a view to creating a collaborative and transparent working environment.
in writing. i voted against this joint motion for a resolution as i find it regrettable that olaf was not officially invited to present the 'olaf supervisory committee annual activity report 2014' to the cont committee. the comparison was necessary to give the newly elected members of parliament an opportunity to clarify the matter. in the absence of such a comparison, i have no sufficient grounds to hold olaf responsible at this stage for not complying with the legal requirements for opening an investigation.
in writing. ‒ the report is too critical of the work of the agency, even though we are also convinced of the need for surveillance in the eu, so i will abstain.
in writing. the work of olaf is indispensable and very useful in the overall objective of achieving greater transparency and effectiveness of the community mechanism. in voting for the resolution just adopted, i hope that the european institutions will do their utmost to support this institution, with the aim of closer cooperation in order to ensure adequate and as complete information as possible for the citizens and parliament.
in writing. today's proposal concerns the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee. olaf, the european anti-fraud office, was set up to combat fraud, corruption and any illegal activity affecting the community's financial interests. that text contains the report on the activities in 2014 and underlines, among other things, the importance of a public comparison between olaf and the supervisory committee on olaf's responses to the opinions and other documents included in the 2014 annual report of the supervisory committee.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the 2014 olaf supervisory committee report underlines that the supervisory committee report raises issues related to statistics, timing and clarity of investigations supported by olaf in 2014. i have chosen to abstain because i consider parliament's resolution to be a hasty decision compared with the publication of olaf's replies to the annual report of its monitoring committee. i also think it is important to work towards creating the conditions for a constructive dialogue between olaf and the supervisory committee, which will bring clarity.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is essential that olaf's work meets the standards of legality and accountability. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this resolution, which calls on olaf to act in full compliance with the legal requirements for the initiation of an investigation.
in writing. ‒ we express our deep disappointment that for the first time the committee on budgetary control has not sent an official invitation to the director-general of olaf, despite the importance of the 2014 annual activity report of the planned supervisory committee and despite the intense debate between the two bodies. we believe that a fair debate on both 2014 annual activity reports is necessary in order to ensure that parliament can take into account all relevant information available in reported cases of corruption, damage to the union's interests and fraud against the community budget. we regret that the house has not been given the opportunity to express a proper and fully informed opinion. we take this opportunity to reiterate our call for olaf to be more independent, to be more transparent in its activities and to respect the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.
in writing. ‒ the 2014 annual activity report of the olaf supervisory committee has raised concerns about the independence of the committee and olaf's compliance with the regulation governing it. i have therefore decided to support the recommendation that the commission facilitate the negotiations between olaf and the supervisory committee by setting out by 31 december 2015 an action plan to amend the working arrangements in order to create an operational environment in which the supervisory committee can fulfil its mandate, and that olaf comply with legal obligations to enable the supervisory committee to fulfil its supervisory functions in a lawful and transparent manner.
in writing. ‒ the european anti-fraud office (olaf) is responsible for protecting the eu's financial interests by investigating fraud and illegal activities at european level. i have to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
in writing. ‒ i decided to abstain on the resolution because i consider it incomplete and this shows a partial picture of the relationship between olaf and the supervisory committee. i do not want to go into the details of each point, but as regards the opening of 423 cases on the same day, i believe that the protection of the procedural rights of the persons concerned has only been strengthened by the opening of the investigations themselves. it would have been more constructive to give olaf time to respond to the criticisms and to have a more complete and up-to-date view of the situation. we must remember that olaf and the supervisory committee are two independent bodies and that hasty and incomplete action may needlessly aggravate relations between them instead of improving them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution tabled by the epp on the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee. the proposal from my group, which has been dealing with this issue for years, highlights the problems of the independence of the monitoring committee, which is accused of a lack of transparency and effectiveness, and in particular of manipulating statistics in order to make its investigations much shorter than they actually are. i voted in favour because i believe that it is necessary to carry out the necessary investigations and to check that this institution is functioning properly.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i think it would have been right to involve olaf before drawing any conclusions. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of cases of fraud in the union. in addition, olaf's replies to the opinions and other documents included in the 2014 activity report of the supervisory committee were not included in the official documentation of the programme of the supervisory committee. i also regret that in many cases the monitoring committee has made recommendations which relate to specific acts of investigation of the past or suggests actions relating to the past which cannot be implemented retroactively by olaf. it also emerged that for most of the actions for which the monitoring committee reported that olaf follow-up 'cannot be verified', it did not in fact even attempt to conduct an audit by requesting information from olaf before the publication of the report. i therefore hope that in future the negotiations will be facilitated in order to clarify the role of the monitoring committee and its scope of action.
oral explanations of vote
i do not want to get into the debate on the death penalty, but this is not a debate on whether the euro is a good thing or a bad thing. it's a different kind of debate. europe has always stood against capital punishment, because no one has the right to take the life of another man.
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ i do not share the positions put forward in the resolution analysing the situation in hungary, in particular on the popular consultations requested by orban. the text is biased and is designed to exploit the democratic choices of a member country. for these reasons i did not intend to vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that if hungary intends to remain a member of the european union, it must respect the fundamental principles on which it is founded, namely the principles of human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. it is clear that if hungary were to reinstate the death penalty in its legal system, all these principles would be violated, if not trampled underfoot.
in writing. - i voted against it. it is a classic example of left-wing racism against those who legitimately express ideas that are not in line with the unified thought. orban is accused of holding public consultations on immigration and the death penalty. the report is an attack on democracy.
in writing. ‒ the european union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality and respect for human rights. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome. the statements by the hungarian prime minister, viktor orbán, on the possibility of reintroducing the death penalty and on the persecution of immigrants violate the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the european convention on human rights, which have already been incorporated into the hungarian constitution. i believe that the commission should therefore initiate a monitoring and control process in hungary with the aim of assessing the quality of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. the resolution we have voted is in that direction, and that is why i have decided to support it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because all the points which are most important to me and my delegation have been passed. in particular: the firm position on the possible reintroduction of the death penalty in an eu country; condemning and calling for the withdrawal of the immigration questionnaire proposed by the orban government which stigmatises immigrants and negatively influences public opinion; the commission is invited to introduce a permanent mechanism for monitoring respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law in the eu, including country-by-country monitoring and the imposition of appropriate sanctions if necessary for those states which are guilty of systematic violations.
in writing. ‒ history has taught us that democracies can self-destruct if the principle of majority rule is not accompanied and limited by a number of other fundamental principles and rights: the european union is committed to the principles and rights set out in articles 2 and 6 of the teu, which all the european institutions are called upon to defend. the statements by the hungarian prime minister on the death penalty and the national consultation against immigration and against immigrants which he has promoted are indicative of a long-standing anti-democratic trend. more alarm bells, but also very serious and damaging facts in themselves, because of their immediate effects on the cultural, social and political climate of the country and their collision with the values and the law of the eu and international (including the geneva convention on refugees). i therefore believe that the intervention of the council and the commission is necessary, since they have a dual task: to use all existing instruments, including its communication of 19 march 2014, with regard to the hungarian situation; and propose a new general control system to be applied to all states in a systematic way to protect democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. the joint resolution is moving in that direction and i have therefore supported it.
in writing. ‒ as an italian, i grew up with the mentality of our constitution: "sovereignty belongs to the people". today i find it unacceptable that well-meaning people allow themselves to decide what is right and what is wrong in countries other than their own. the much-vaunted sovereignty of the people, of which this parliament is the only expression in europe, must be respected, unless there is someone who wants to change the rules of the game. since this is not the case in hungary, i cannot agree with this resolution which the left has strongly wanted and presented, and i do not agree with their tone. only a change of the text can change my mind.
in writing. ‒ the growing concerns about political developments, such as the lack of respect for human rights and the willingness of 'dictator' viktor orban, as defined by commission president juncker, to introduce the death penalty, are justified. all the campaigns promoted by the far-right government, including the campaign against immigrants and the inclusion in school textbooks of exercises for children, who are even required to recognize the 'real' hungarian among various ethnic groups, are contrary to the most fundamental european values. the european union has a moral obligation to act decisively when fundamental rights are being violated, without risking having to adopt a double standard.
in writing. i've said it before, i'll say it again: we cannot ignore the anti-democratic drift that is taking place in the heart of europe. the words of hungarian prime minister viktor orban leave us in shock, as do his political initiatives to reinstate the death penalty and the rejection, if not hatred, of immigrants. we cannot tolerate this any longer and we must prevent orban's provocations from becoming a virus that threatens to infect the rest of europe. the commission must closely monitor the situation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in hungary and inform parliament of any violation of articles 2 and 7. the events in hungary must also serve as a starting point for the establishment of an eu mechanism to ensure country-by-country monitoring of respect for the democratic values on which the union is founded. i therefore welcome the resolution adopted by the european parliament today and hope that the strong demands made in it, starting with the adoption of an own-initiative report on the establishment of the mechanism, will soon be put into practice. the highest democratic institution representing the citizens of the union cannot afford to let down its guard on respect for fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ report is an example of left-wing racism against those who legitimately express ideas that are not in line with the unified thought.
in writing. the deterioration of the rule of law in hungary has been a cause for concern in recent years. the european union is a political project, and we cannot afford to have grey areas where respect for fundamental rights is in doubt and where respect for the opposition, social minorities and social forces is poorly guaranteed. i voted with conviction for the report presented today on the situation in hungary because, while maintaining the principle of non-interference in the internal political dialectic of a country, it is a constitutional prerogative of the european union to ensure that the principles of democracy and institutional balance are respected. i would particularly stress the proposal to establish an eu mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights as an instrument for respecting and implementing the charter and the treaties, based on common indicators and objectives. i think it is very important to move towards an impartial assessment of the situation of fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law in all member states, indiscriminately and on an equal footing, with an assessment assigned to the eu agency for fundamental rights; it would be an instrument capable of allowing an automatic and gradual response to violations of the rule of law and fundamental rights at the level of member states, which would obviously be accompanied by measures of democratic control and subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in hungary because i believe that the political attitude of prime minister orban is dangerous for the stability of the country and of the european union as a whole. i share the condemnation of orban's recent statements about the possible reintroduction of the death penalty in hungary and i appeal to the prime minister's sense of responsibility to respect the values on which the eu is founded. i am sad to see the gradual mortifying of democratic principles, the rule of law and human rights, and i believe that serious action must be taken on the threats and violence against homosexuals, of which an italian boy living in hungary was recently a victim. i hope that the commission will come forward as soon as possible with a proposal for the establishment of an eu mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights to assess the situation in all member states and to correct any distortions. finally, i regret the lack of interest shown so far by the council and the member states in the recent developments in hungary, which should have taken a more intransigent stance on orban's policy choices from the outset.
in writing. ‒ each member state of the european union must respect and promote the values on which it is founded. the statements by the hungarian prime minister, viktor orbán, about the reintroduction of the death penalty in hungary are clearly an affront to the values on which the union is founded. the public consultation on immigration and terrorism is extremely misleading because it creates a link between migration and security threats. we have therefore called loudly for its annulment and have called on all member states to participate constructively in the current debate on the european programme on immigration.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in hungary. starting with the issue of the death penalty, which is not part of european values, and continuing with the important role of public consultation, there are many important issues dealt with in this report. it remains of paramount importance to consider that all member states are required to fully respect eu law in their legislative and administrative practices and that all legislation, including the primary law of each member state or candidate country, must reflect and be in line with the core european values, namely democratic principles, the rule of law and fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ the european union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, respect for human rights and the protection of minorities. the death penalty is incompatible with all these values and its possible reintroduction by a member state, in this specific case hungary, would therefore constitute a clear violation of the treaties and the eu charter of fundamental rights. we therefore strongly condemn the repeated statements by hungarian prime minister orbán aimed at provoking a debate on the possible reintroduction of the death penalty in hungary, thus institutionalising and fuelling a concept which is in clear violation of the values on which the union is founded. we also deplore the public consultation on immigration initiated by the hungarian government, which ends up feeding xenophobic prejudices. we therefore call on the european commission to immediately activate a thorough monitoring process on the situation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in hungary, assessing any serious or systematic violations of community values within the meaning of article 2 teu, and to submit a thorough report to us by september 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i believe that prime minister orban's statements to reassure the eu that the death penalty is not being introduced, which is contrary to fundamental values and eu law, have ended the recent controversy on the subject. i think, however, that there is some concern about the presence of extremist parties that are questioning the european project.
in writing. ‒ i have been following the recent events in hungary closely and the speeches of the hungarian prime minister viktor orban where he spoke about what happened in his country and the debate on the death penalty. i think that he made it clear, also in his meeting with the president of the european parliament, mr martin schulz, that the hungarian government was not prepared to take any measures to reinstate it. i recognize the lack of need for public consultation on immigration and the questions posed to hungarian citizens, some of which are tendentious. i do not share the accusations against the eu on immigration at a time when it is finally trying to implement an immigration policy based on the principle of solidarity and quotas. i have decided to abstain on the resolution because the hungarian government must be given time to correct its actions and not to isolate a member state too harshly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the situation in hungary is no longer bearable. the orban government continues to challenge the european union and the international community with continuous acts of arrogance. the situation inside the country is becoming more and more intolerable, with real intimidation of all minorities. the european parliament must take up its responsibilities and work to make hungary the great democratic state it was before orban and his government came to power.
oral explanations of vote
written declarations of vote
in writing. ‒ i believe that beyond the proclamations this country must start respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms which are the very essence of the european union and above all show respect for all eu member states, starting with stopping all types of aggression against cyprus. for all these reasons, i voted against the 2014 progress report on turkey.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that turkey is a strategic partner of the eu, both geopolitically and economically. i therefore believe that we would all benefit enormously from an intensification of eu-turkey relations.
in writing. - i vote against it. turkey cannot be considered europe, because of its values, principles, culture, religion, traditions and, last but not least, because of the support it gives to the islamic terrorism of isis in syria and libya. it is regrettable that the eu is still wasting time discussing this issue, since certain deals cannot but be approved by this europe of lobbies and banks.
in writing. ‒ my vote in favour of the european parliament resolution on the commission's 2014 progress report on turkey because the time has come for the country to align itself with the parameters of the european union, which necessarily requires the implementation of appropriate and effective reforms. the efforts which we are sure turkey will make to strengthen its institutions and the process of democratization and modernisation are an opportunity which cannot be missed. turkey has been a strategic partner for the eu since accession negotiations were launched in 2005 and a process based on a commitment to reforms was launched. a lot of progress has been made, but many questions remain unanswered. in short, turkey must do much more to meet the copenhagen criteria. finally, i hope that the results of the recent elections will favour the reforms needed to bring turkey closer to the european union.
in writing. ‒ while i appreciate the basic message of the report, that the country must do much more to fight corruption, respect media freedom, freedom of expression and the independence of the judiciary, i chose to abstain. i particularly disagree with the various calls for increased funds to be used in specific areas in turkey and the call for new negotiating chapters to be opened. what i would like instead is a moment of reflection to see whether turkey's accession is really in the interests of all parties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2014 progress report on turkey, a country with which the eu opened accession negotiations in october 2005 and which has committed itself to respecting the copenhagen criteria. the resolution welcomes the commission's report and shares the view that turkey remains an important strategic partner and that the negotiations represent an opportunity for both sides. however, concerns are expressed about the independence of the judiciary and the repeated bans on the media.
in writing. ‒ turkey is a large democratic country, not yet ready to join the eu, but different from the arab world that many of us often confuse with it. other countries that were part of the ottoman empire are now part of the eu, and we should take note without prejudice of the different developments that turkey has had in recent years. i believe that dialogue must not be interrupted, and with it the common plans for the future. i think that this report is fairly balanced and objective in this respect, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ eu-turkey relations bring benefits to both sides in economic, energy security and foreign policy matters. in the light of turkey's progress in its efforts to meet the copenhagen criteria, maintain good neighbourly relations and gradually align with the eu, there is still much reform to be done. the eu has also been active in the fight against corruption, and has been involved in the negotiations with turkey on the eu's accession to the european union. in this context, the eu can seize the opportunity to promote peace, democracy, security and prosperity in europe by inviting turkey to place the reform process to establish effective democratic legislation based on respect for fundamental freedoms at the heart of its domestic policy. on the basis of these considerations i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled following various statements by the council and the commission on the progress made by turkey.
in writing. ‒ it is right to ask turkey to make greater efforts to have more democracy. it is still a grave mistake to insist on turkey's membership of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the 2014 progress report on turkey and share the view that turkey is a strategically important political, economic and cultural partner for the european union. i believe that efforts between the european union and turkey to achieve closer cooperation must be stepped up and i hope that the turkish government will see the need to intensify the negotiations and commit itself to respect for democratic principles and human rights. i am concerned, however, about the adoption of laws which undermine the freedom of the media and which therefore infringe the principle of freedom of expression and the right to privacy. the situation remains critical in terms of gender equality, too, due to high rates of violence against women and poor protection by the authorities. i therefore hope that the government will address the gender gap and implement policies to increase the participation of women in civil society. finally, i believe that political dialogue with the eu must also respect the sovereignty of the member states and that turkey must refrain from any action which could jeopardise good neighbourly relations.
in writing. i believe it is crucial that the eu remains the benchmark for reform in turkey. this country has continued to implement the reforms undertaken in recent years, although a new constitution, based on provisions promoting a pluralistic, inclusive and tolerant society, would be the foundation of the reform process and would provide a solid basis for fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. i have supported this proposal because i consider it an important step in the process and i also urge the turkish government to guarantee media freedom as a priority and to provide an appropriate legal framework to guarantee pluralism in accordance with international standards.
in writing. ‒ i supported the text of the resolution because i believe it adequately and objectively addresses the state of progress in turkey from a socio-political point of view. despite the fact that cases of violations of citizens' rights continue to occur in the country, the european union can only be pleased with the positive developments achieved. the text of the document, which i consider to be complete and objective, clearly outlines the current situation in the country, setting out in a proactive manner the lines of cooperation between it and the european union.
in writing. ‒ turkey is a key partner for the european union, certainly one of the most important, both because of its geographical proximity and because of its converging economic and security interests. while we remain strongly interested in the continuation of the negotiations for turkey's accession to the european union, which is, however, conditional on the fulfilment of the formal criteria laid down by the treaty of lisbon, we cannot deny a certain concern about some recent events which have undermined turkey's international image. we are particularly concerned about the limited independence of the judiciary and the lack of freedom of expression. we also strongly urge that the peace process with the kurdish minority be accelerated and that a lasting solution to the issue be found as soon as possible. in any case, we are convinced that the solution to the country's undeniable problems is greater involvement of the international community, and specifically of the european union. the relaunch of the dialogue with turkey could lead to important progress both within the country and in the wider scenario of a crucial area of the world.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that turkey should put the reform process at the centre of its domestic policy choices and commit itself more strongly and 'unequivocally' to respecting the democratic values and principles of the eu, including freedom of the press, freedom of expression and the independence of the judiciary. i believe that the european commission should review with turkey the way in which its accession negotiations have been conducted so far, and give more thought to how to improve and intensify its relations with that country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mrs piri's motion for a resolution because i believe that turkey is an essential partner for the eu in maintaining stability and security in the region. at the same time, in recent years, i have noticed a particular deterioration in the respect for the right to freedom of expression and information in the country, which risks further slowing down the eu accession process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report and welcome the progress made by turkey as highlighted in the commission's report. turkey is a key partner for the eu in various areas of trade and industry, energy security, foreign policy cooperation, immigration and regional stability. in this light, i believe it is in the interests of both parties that closer cooperation between the eu and turkey should be established, with a mutual commitment to intensify negotiations, in view of the common strategic interests and the clear benefit that could be gained from a strengthened dialogue with turkey on economic issues and from greater integration between turkish and european businesses for the benefit of growth and employment.
in writing. ‒ the complex 2014 progress report on turkey was discussed during the last plenary session, but it was decided to postpone the vote, given the sensitivity of the issue and the lack of uniformity among the different currents in parliament. the resolution tabled by the committee on foreign affairs, which i decided to vote in favour of, highlights the positive results achieved by turkey in 2014, a country which has now become a strategic, economic and energy partner of increasing importance for europe, but on the other hand, critical issues remain and these must be resolved with a view to ever deeper cooperation. the negotiation with the eu itself represents a significant opportunity for turkey to develop a strong, pluralistic democratic system with strong institutions for the benefit of all turkish citizens and for closer relations with the european union.
in writing. ‒ the vote in the recent turkish elections shows that the desire for change has reached turkey as well. president erdogan's ruling party will be forced to look for allies in order to govern. the country now faces a number of scenarios ranging from the formation of a minority government to returning to the polls. the strategic position of turkey and its commercial links with that country should encourage the european institutions to strengthen their already close and effective cooperation. if the european union is to play a role in the delicate middle east situation, it is necessary to revive relations with turkey. we need open, unbiased discourse on both sides. we must bear in mind that turkey is a strategic partner for the eu in the fight against terrorism and in the management of migration flows, and for this reason we must step up our assistance to the turkish government and all those concerned with the protection of refugees and asylum seekers. turkey is called upon to renew its commitment to the development of strong democratic institutions and legislation based on respect for human rights, the rule of law and the defence of the interests of all communities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, reading this report, i have come to realise that it is not just the sea that is black, nor are the lists alone black, but the whole situation is completely black, both in eastern europe and even more so in this parliament. rather than talking about a cold war, we could talk about scenarios of a very hot war, or rather a war fever, a propaganda war. a militaristic drift which is emphasized in relation to russia, but which could very well be emphasized in relation to us as well. the real problem with this relationship is that there is no form of self-criticism. there is simply criticism, sometimes even justified, towards russia, but there is no criticism from our side: but you should know that on the international chessboard, geopolitical actors act precisely for geopolitical interests. russia does its own in ways that are reprehensible, perhaps in some cases, but the same could be said of american and european ones, which perhaps operate through multinationals rather than through other means. i believe that the real big risk - which is never strongly considered - is that a completely drifting russia seeks an ever closer and stronger partnership with china, and perhaps even iran, creating an asian bloc that would then create a much bigger problem than we face today. i also do not understand why turkey is seen as the most reliable side of the west, despite all that we have repeatedly stressed in this parliament. well, i would say that rather than saying that there is no diplomatic way, we must absolutely relaunch by any means, at any cost, a diplomatic dialogue with moscow, because not only is it unthinkable to engage in a confrontation, but it would be even worse to do so by proxy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe has made its history on the seas, starting from the mediterranean, europeans have given birth to a civilization that has been forged through confrontation with each other. the black sea is one of those scenarios in which we have built our relationship with russia and the near east. these seas must continue to be places of peace and not theatres of tragedy and conflict. russia's annexation of crimea violates the un charter, giving moscow a strategic foothold in the balkans and the eastern mediterranean and making dialogue increasingly difficult. the council's initiatives towards the kremlin are a good start, but more needs to be done. the european union must be energy independent and must proceed with a single foreign and defence policy, partly because this helps to reduce the expenditure of individual member states. only in this way can we be credible partners at a historic moment when we feel the need for a europe capable of helping to overcome the unstable global situation which is threatening to explode.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the black sea basin is undoubtedly one of the most strategic regions for the european union, both in terms of security and defence and in terms of the european neighbourhood policy. in 2007, also following the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union, the european commission presented the black sea synergy, a cooperation initiative for the region that aimed to give new impetus to cooperation processes with russia, turkey and other partners. however, the changing geostrategic landscape in the black sea basin and russia's forced annexation of crimea show that the black sea synergy is now obsolete. we are facing broader and more complex systemic challenges, which require the rapid development of a comprehensive european union strategy. the commission must therefore work towards greater cooperation on security and defence policy with the black sea partner states and must give priority support to initiatives to diversify energy resources in the black sea as part of a strategy for energy independence from russia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am surprised that high commissioner mogherini is not here on such an important subject. we are talking about military matters, we are talking about russia, we are talking about the black sea and with all due respect to those who are here in place of mogherini, the holder is missing. and as if i'm a lawyer and i have to go to an important case in a trial, and instead of going there i send maybe a colleague of mine who is certainly not the owner and so my client could theoretically get angry. i'm not a lawyer. i'm just making an example. this is to say that europe has once again proved incapable of dealing with the problems with the weapons, quote, it has. this is the end result. so we need to talk to mogherini, we need to talk to the hungarian commissioner, we need to talk to who? i would like to conclude by saying that once again europe is turning against russia, when we have to get along with russia. i 'll tell you more than that . if it were up to me, it would be nice if putin invaded europe so we'd all be better off.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, fight for democracy or surrender to yet another dictatorial drift in black africa. this is the dilemma of the people of burundi, silenced on radio and television, courageously present in the squares as they launch their protest cry against an authoritarian man, pierre nkurunziza, blinded by the seat of power to the point of breaking constitutional legality, demanding a third presidential term, forcing him with an attempted coup d'état, which is against the law, against logic, against common sense and above all against the good of his people. of course, at least we can say that the police and the army are reacting in a generally acceptable way, that the more balanced composition between tutsi and hutu is thwarting nkurunziza's attempts to foment ethnic conflict, evoking the spectre of genocide. the arusha agreements, at least in this respect, are holding up, but with the collapse of the country, with rampant inflation, no more money in the bombing fund, and with more than 100,000 refugees and an army very soon, without pay, a collapse is just around the corner. our mission report tells us that in truth no credible dialogue is standing between the current government and the opposition: too weak and fragmented. in dar es salaam, african and eastern leaders were too ambiguous and tentative, and the only real defenders of democracy are civil society activists. nkurunziza's arrogant claim is based on this timidity, on this fear, theirs and ours. because if nkurunziza knew that we are all united in not recognizing him in europe, america and africa, maybe he would step aside. if there were strict and inflexible conditionality, then credible and democratic elections would be allowed. sometimes taking time is also wasting time, and we don't have that time. we send a consistent message, no ifs and no buts. we lack our peace bricks with consistency and we put our face on it. if you need a volunteer for that mission, i'll go. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a blue-card question. colleague, thank you for asking. i couldn't agree with you more. in fact, as i said earlier, it is precisely from this point of view that the arusha agreements have worked. it is the government, nkurunziza, who is trying to reignite the ethnic conflict in order to hide his seat of power, and so we must do everything in our power to keep the bar straight and prevent this game of the president from taking hold and finding consensus and above all nail him once and for all to his responsibility. thank you, sir.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, these are the operating procedures of the european parliament, not the ones we have chosen. this morning, too, a debate was postponed which was of the utmost importance to the lives of some 800 million citizens of europe and the united states. we're following the rules you're enforcing. the rule says you speak one person against one pro person. i think that has been done, so i ask the president to open the vote.
madam president, i am sorry for the insult you have received, i could say that we have received the same insult over and over again, we have been called fascists. someone told us before that we sucked, and i don't know if that's not an insult, too. i would like to make a point of order. madam president, article 191 says that if a political group requests the adjournment of a sitting, the vote must be taken immediately and not after a 30-minute adjournment, but that is all right, because our aim was not to adjourn the sitting, much less one on a subject as important as burundi, which we are absolutely convinced is of great importance, as it is true that there were five or at most six people present to discuss it, but i am glad that for something as important as enforcing the rules of procedure, only when you wish it, you have all arrived. i'm very happy for you.
madam president, i am sorry, but i do not intend, nor do my colleagues, to pass over the grave offence we have received from being called fascists. this is a serious breach of the rules of procedure, article 11, because it is a serious breach of freedom of expression. no one here can afford to be called a fascist, especially people who had grandparents in concentration camps or partisans. no one is allowed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately this house is again forced to deal with the very serious institutional crisis in burundi. i have already spoken about the situation in the african country on the occasion of the arrest in january of bob rugurika, journalist and director of radio publique africaine. the situation has escalated in recent weeks after the announcement of president nkurunziza's removal from office and the postponement of elections triggered violent and bloody clashes in the country. since the beginning of the protests, some 40 people have been killed, and more than 100,000 people have fled burundi. as denounced by many non-governmental associations, the protests were triggered by the president's announced decision to run for a third term, contrary to the country's constitutional charter. after the criticisms of many african leaders, in addition to those of the united states, we must also make the decisive voice of europe heard. it is necessary to urge the government of the country to stop the spiral of repression and allow the elections to take place normally and to respect the constitutional charter.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be speaking in a slightly different way to the others, because i do not think that many europeans care much about burundi. i think that europeans are asking europe to do things that are useful for europeans. when people talk about dying in burundi, fine, i'm sorry, as many europeans will be, but why don't they start talking about all the suicides that are in europe because there are businesses that are not working, because there is an economy that is not working, because there are governments that are not working, because there are a lot of illegal immigrants coming into europe and we can't do anything about it. why don't we think first of those we can't save in the mediterranean sea. we must think of burundi as we thought of the masai, as we thought of the illegal immigrants in burma, and not of the illegal immigrants in europe. but you are not ashamed to talk about things that do not make sense in relation to what the europeans are asking us to do, what the young, the old, the companies are asking us to do! but what do we think of burundi? we are here to talk about burundi and not think about europe! to what our future needs! but you're ashamed, yes or no?
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– madam president, yes, i think we need to stand by the burundian people, just because the situation is so complicated and so disastrous there. i fully understand your concerns and i am open to your proposals. i will transmit them to high representative/vice-president mogherini. but precisely because the situation is so fluid, and the outcome at the moment so uncertain, we have to keep all of the scenarios and all the options on the table. that means specifically that, of course, we have to consider the consultations under article 96 of the cotonou agreement and a range of appropriate measures which could be taken, including individual measures and, of course, looking at all financial assistance. we have to take into account using cfsp measures, among the various options available, just as proposed by honourable member telička. i think we have to give priority now to a peaceful solution and political dialogue. that is why we have to support the regional and african union efforts to improve the political climate and get consensus on how to make elections work. we have to keep monitoring the situation in every dimension, and i am sure you agree with that approach as well. i look forward to maintaining a dialogue with you and i signal my appreciation of parliament’s role in keeping this important issue on the international agenda.
in writing. history repeats itself and the case of president nkurunziza seems too obvious. a head of state amending the constitution to maintain power just before an election, an army rising in revolt, a civil war. this time the burden is on the people of burundi, who are seeing violence add to their poverty. given that we know the plot and the ending (just look at the dramatic case of rwanda), we must act immediately. before the violence escalates, before the power struggle turns into a humanitarian crisis. europe has a strong bargaining power. if the fighting continues and the authorities do not reach a peaceful settlement, the violence must be considered a violation of human rights and therefore a breach of the cotonou agreement. the cooperation must be terminated. the union has at least a duty to exert strong pressure so that the burundian people can hold democratic and transparent elections.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent scandal involving corruption at the top of fifa adds another dark chapter to the history of football. i'm not surprised, as an italian. we are sadly used to such scandals, and not just in the football world! corruption, fraud, match-fixing and illegal betting are all very recent developments, often run by organized crime with the connivance of football players and managers. let 's get this straight . an investigation is currently underway by the district anti-mafia directorate of catanzaro for football betting and a few hours ago news came out of the start of an investigation, with a search, against the vice president of the italian football federation, who is called claudio lotito, for attempted extortion, even! however, everyone knew, for example, as denounced by inspector garcia, that the allocation of the world cup in russia in 2018 and the qatar world cup in 2022 was marred by serious corruption. the fifa ethics committee ignored all the conclusions of the report and confirmed the assignments. we must reform fifa and the whole world of football, not only in italy but in all of europe, which seems to have been following its own logic for too long now, which is completely outside the genuine values of sport, such as healthy competition, personal development, friendship, discipline and education. the players are often role models for the younger generation and therefore play an educational role, but too often the example they set is not up to the task. perhaps you should reflect on this circumstance: i think that our society should ask itself whether it is right to entrust such a fundamental educational role to those who, in the vast majority of cases, are unable to perform it because they lack the means and the training. in conclusion, i believe that when we talk about transparency, democracy, good governance and financial fair play, these concepts should not remain as declarations of principle, but should be applied on a daily basis. this scandal, though bitter at the moment, nevertheless offers us an opportunity for reform which i believe must be seized. we must be prepared to resist the pressures that will surely be exerted given the enormous financial interests at stake, but we are prepared to do our part!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, minister, there is no doubt that the facts revealed by the newspapers all over the world about the management of sport show a very high and widespread level of corruption, especially where everything and everyone has a price, a price that has an ethical as well as an economic price. the fact that football is followed by almost 2 billion people worldwide, that there are some 400 million european citizens, and that it is clear that if it is confirmed that the last 7 world cups were awarded as a result of corruption, it is clear that the confidence of the fans and of all those who believe in the values of sport will be seriously compromised. and to this must be added the economic side, a world cup is a $5 billion business, funded by sponsors, federations, fans, and its performance must be reported above all suspicion. it is therefore our duty to be able to impose - i know there is independence in the world of football - but we must be able to impose greater transparency on fifa in all its activities, from the election of the president to the allocation mechanism of sporting events, starting with the world cup. we must also demand that the rules of rotation in office, democracy in elections and decision-making, transparency and external control of budgets be applied. i ask the commission to make a serious effort to make this happen.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the extension of the union's powers to sport has been a success and an advantage for our citizens, the citizens of europe. the educational and social value of sports and the inclusion of sports programmes for the benefit of young people are important and productive facts. the fifa affair is a serious case of corruption and crime in a sport, football, which has the biggest turnover in the world. what has been tarnished is the very value of sport, as well as the honor of the people involved. because we're dealing with a scandal here. fifa, its top brass, have tried to turn football into a permanent business committee for the benefit of sponsors and marketing. now the organization needs to be restructured and the external control of the activities must be re-thought. and please, let's save the value and the high meaning of sport! this is the call to be made to uefa and this is also our task now.
i thank mr zagorakis also for his experience.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a woman is heading fifa as president: it would be a very important signal, also because women are very discriminated against in this sector. finally, unfortunately, we have also had some very serious insults and insults in italy. so we finally discuss the scandals and corruption in the international football federation, corruption, bribes for a figure, it is said, of about 150 million dollars in 24 years, but it could be much more. there are allegations of corruption regarding the 2018 and 2022 allocations. as far as russia and qatar are concerned, however, as is well known, the european union acquired specific competence in the field of sport and, above all, specific competence with regard to the integrity of sport with the lisbon treaty in 2009, and therefore maximum transparency, democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law must be demanded. football, because of its popularity and widespread use, has a great social impact and more. it is a great tool for integrating citizens and a formidable glue that can unite diverse populations. it is our duty to contribute to the defence of football and we owe it above all to the young and the very young, who with enthusiasm and passion, and often with sacrifices, dedicate their lives to this sport. so it is our moral duty to defend the integrity of many against the rot of corruption.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent revelations about the top of fifa speak of payments and bribes, of a widespread and systematic corruption, to the development of which at least two generations of executives have contributed, who for over twenty years have abused their positions by taking millions of dollars in bribes. i personally hope that the ongoing investigations will succeed in eradicating corruption from the world of football and bring about a review of fifa's structure, codes and operational practices. if we do not act decisively, the events we are discussing risk tarnishing the image of this sport as a whole, which i would regret very much, particularly in relation to the hundreds of thousands of amateur societies and the millions of passionate volunteers. the union of european football associations and the national football federation have an obligation to do their part to step up this reform process and i hope that it will introduce term limits for the members of the fifa executive committee and lead to improved transparency, both in the decision-making processes and in the way fifa officials are remunerated. and the european institutions and the member states must do everything possible to restore the credibility and attractiveness of this movement.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am frankly a little surprised at the amazement of this house. fifa, to me personally, seems like the most obvious scandal, sort of like the discovery of hot water. the 7 arrested fifa executives, the two vice presidents, but really, did we notice that today, colleagues? does anyone really remember that back in 2002, the vice president of caf, claimed to have received an offer of $100,000 to vote for blatter for his second term? so, the revelations of chuck blazer, of jack warner, frankly, should not surprise us. and these are people who have no qualms about taking millions of euros away from the reconstruction of haiti, let alone taking a bribe for a football world cup in qatar or russia. some said earlier that they wanted a woman, some said a man, i would like to head fifa especially an honest person, someone who is still excited about a game in a suburban field, not the usual shark from the business committee. and i ask you, please, to use our coordination expertise in sports to kick the corruption out of football.
i have received seven motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 11 june, at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the agenda includes an oral question to the council on sport and human rights also in the context of the baku european games (2015/2720(rsp)) (b8-0556/2015).
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, the issue of sports and ethics is indeed topical, as we have seen in the previous debate. now we turn to another sport—related issue: the european games in baku. as i said during the previous debate, sporting events are an important economic activity, creating jobs and attracting investments. many sporting events and world championships are being hosted outside the eu and, in particular, in emerging economies. this tendency has only increased since 2008, since when most of the world’s major economies, including the eu, have been obliged to pursue a policy of fiscal restraint. this means that issues such as those raised by the honourable member will continue to be high on the political agenda. the oral question on which i am now intervening is related to the relationship between sport and human rights, and this relationship should not be underestimated. i would also like to recall that sporting events bring people and communities together and bridge divides. they provide an excellent opportunity to promote democratic values. to this aim, in may 2014, the council adopted a second eu work plan for sport, under which a set of guiding principles relating to democracy, human rights and labour rights is going to be prepared, in particular in the context of the procedures for awarding major sports events. work on these principles should be completed later this year. in this context, future council presidencies will be in a position to decide how best to take forward the role on good governance achieved under the two eu work plans. the aim is to ensure that international sports organisations operate in a way which continues to ensure the support of eu citizens and governments. as regards specifically azerbaijan, the eastern partnership is the main framework within which we set relations with that country. as you know, the most recent eastern partnership summit took place last month in riga. the summit’s joint declaration contains all the participants’ joint commitment to strengthen democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, which are the principles at the heart of their partnership. moreover, the summit’s participants reaffirmed that people-to-people contacts are one of the important modalities of the eastern partnership and, in this context, the leaders looked forward to the first ever european games to be hosted in azerbaijan in june. it is true that there are concerns about the state of democracy and the human rights situation in azerbaijan. however, isolation of the country might not be the best response. dialogue and engagement are important in promoting human rights. i hope the period of the baku games can be a window of opportunities for progress in this field. indeed, i am aware of your concerns regarding, in particular, the detention of human rights defenders, activists and journalists, as expressed in this oral question and in a letter that several of you addressed recently to the high representatives and to ministers. i share these concerns. the eu is raising its concerns on human rights with the azerbaijani authorities directly and publicly. it has been calling for the fair treatment and release of detained individuals. during their visits in recent months, commissioner hahn and eu special representative lambrinidis have raised these issues repeatedly, sometimes publicly. we hope that the baku games will be an opportunity for the azerbaijani authorities to show their progressive commitment to democratic values and human rights, and that they will not miss this opportunity. i thank you for your attention and i look forward to your views during this very important debate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for several years now, major sporting events have been moving eastwards, giving authoritarian regimes the opportunity to increase their international reputation, no matter how much the host venues do not respect human rights. the sports bodies that influence the allocation decisions, such as fifa, seem to be more interested in the economic availability of these countries than in others. the next games are another example of this constant, they will take place in baku, the capital of azerbaijan, a country whose economy is moving at a fast pace, thanks to its huge oil and gas fields, but which does not seem to be as advanced in terms of human rights. in fact, in recent years, particularly in the past 12 months, expressing dissent has become very risky in this country, due to an increasingly intolerant system of criticism that puts pressure on a large number of journalists and human rights activists. i would like to mention the case of leila younis, one of the most prominent human rights defenders in azerbaijan and one of the three finalists for the latest european sakharov prize for freedom of thought. currently detained on charges of high treason, fraud, forgery and tax evasion. the wave of repression has also hit foreigners: journalists, members of non-governmental organizations and un officials have experienced firsthand the intimidation, harassment and obstruction that the azerbaijani authorities have put in place to stifle criticism. so at present there seems to be no room for opposition in azerbaijan. the international spotlight on baku, the capital, has been on since 12 june, and this is a unique opportunity for the european union and its member states to take action to defend human rights and promote universal values. the european union, through the high representative, should call for the release of all political prisoners. i believe that athletes also need to engage in concrete human rights issues, raising these issues with local organizers and athletes and using their popularity to support those who have been unjustly deprived of their freedom. finally, speaking in more general terms, it would be highly desirable for the high representative to urge the international olympic committee, the european olympic committees and other major sports federations to include respect for human rights in the list of basic requirements to be met for hosting international sports events and to integrate these requirements into the decision-making processes of sports federations.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. thank you, mr president, and thank you, mr president, for accepting this question. the question i wanted to ask you is this: i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr glinne, for his report, and also the rapporteur, mr van den broek, for his report. but you do not agree with me that it would have been much more appropriate to give it to him once he had respected human rights. so, if he has taken any real steps in this direction, or, as often happens and also happens in certain parts of this parliament, are the principles always applied in accordance with the desired result?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the second time today that we have spoken about sport, unfortunately to deplore the violation of the very values it is supposed to defend. the first european games are held in baku: a good start is half the battle. there's plenty of money in that area. 6 400 athletes, 20 sports, 18 facilities; i wonder if one of these disciplines will include the launching of the oil barrel or the thousand cubic metres of gas. because i think they are the only ones that interest too many people in this parliament and beyond. it is a pity that many forget that azerbaijan has also joined the echr, but does not respect the provisions of that convention in the slightest. it's a pity that they forgot about rasul jafarov, that they forgot about giorgi gogia, who was left at the airport without even being allowed to enter, thus leaving human rights watch out. it is a pity that many others also forget leyla yunus, who in april 2014 was arrested and detained in conditions absolutely incompatible with the very serious disease, diabetes, from which she suffers, among others, the sakharov prize finalist. undemocratic elections, journalists arrested, torture and whoever has the most. i believe that sport and human rights cannot be sold for two barrels of oil, let alone for four cubic metres of gas. europe has done nothing, or rather has not done enough to demand a reaction from azerbaijan and then to allow it to play these games in earnest. if we are silent today, we are feeding the idea of impunity, we are feeding into their belief that our dignity, our values can be bought by the pound. sports has the power to change the world, to bring people together, it speaks a language that everyone understands. sport can create hope where there was only despair before, nelson mandela.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will be good, when you are president i will always be good, i promise you. but hearing these comments, i have to say, but when they did the olympics in china, who stood up and said they shouldn't have the olympics in china? there is communism you talked about fascism, racism, putin, now azerbaijan and communism? what is communism, what does china do? there's no death penalty in china? children don't work, they get killed! nothing, you forget about it! instead of azerbaijan, you have to tell everything and more. i am a friend of azerbaijan, i am happy to be, it is a moderate islamic state that is to be taken as an example and so i think it is right to play games there, it is right to open up to azerbaijan. that's right, because there are certainly some important energy potentials as well, but if we keep using the mean to say that everyone else is scary, they suck, why? we may not live in a dictatorship, where there may be no deaths, where there may be no things, we say so in the light of day, but they destroy people, they destroy society, they destroy businesses, and this is called europe in some respects. so let us stop being hypocrites and lecturing the world when we are not even capable of governing europe and the countries that make it up well.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i would like to ask mr marias whether he is aware of the further developments in azerbaijan, where the osce, council of europe and un offices no longer have any interlocutors, because they have all been arrested and where, above all, the osce office has been closed and the representatives of these institutions are considered unwelcome guests.
i listened very carefully to the whole debate. i must say, i'm disappointed in the performance of the councilwoman. i would expect to hear a stronger and clearer word, madam minister, from you to azerbaijan, especially since you are from a country that has had its experience with the communist regime. i say this as a man and a member of the czech parliament who has also experienced his own. i think we need to use these games to strongly condemn azerbaijan and the regime's human rights violations. i interpelled the commission a few weeks ago on the fate of khadija ismail, a journalist in azerbaijan who was unlawfully charged and imprisoned simply for investigating the property of the president of the czech republic. there are dozens of cases where judicial errors occur, or deliberate attempts to use the judiciary to suppress political opponents, to suppress journalists, and to suppress human rights defenders. let's condemn azerbaijan, let's use the games to make it clear that we cannot tolerate the suppression of human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, hosting the olympic games is an honour and a source of great prestige for any country. it means having the spotlight on you, becoming the target of athletes, fans but also institutional representatives. it means, you know, becoming an accredited and credible interlocutor. it seems to be a well-established trend now that countries rich in natural resources but poor in respect for fundamental freedoms use sporting events to promote their national brand through football. azerbaijan is certainly not a champion of rights, yet it will host the first european olympic games. in the palaces, the party, in the prisons, the political dissidents. now boycotting the games would only be to the detriment of the many athletes who are training for these competitions with perseverance, earnestness and commitment. but political action in the political sphere is appropriate, more than appropriate. rights and international respect cannot be bought with gas or oil.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the lights are being turned on tomorrow in baku for the opening of the first european olympic games, the cells of the azerbaijani prisons, where almost a hundred azerbaijani political prisoners are being held, will be plunged into darkness. the 20th century has been generous in handing down a trail of global sporting events that have been used and abused by dictators. the first, in alphabetical order, was the berlin olympics in '36; at that time, hitler was emerging as an enlightened dictator. today, aliyev uses sport to legitimize his dictatorship. in azerbaijan, the osce, the council of europe and the un no longer have interlocutors because they are systematically arrested by the regime. ladies and gentlemen, leyla yunus is accused of high treason along with her husband because she promoted initiatives aimed at dialogue between azerbaijani and armenian civil societies. that said, we ask the commission to express a clear position of boycotting the opening ceremony by the heads of state or government of the member states. the european union's inertia towards azerbaijan is an application of double standards which is eroding our credibility. our indifference would make us complicit. day after tomorrow, the spotlight on the cells of the azeri prisoners is to be turned on.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the agenda includes six motions for resolutions on syria, the situation in palmyra and the mazen darwish case (2015/2732 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the tragedy of palmyra and syria, the battlefield of too many conflicting interests, is the result of the mistakes made in recent years, not only by the west but also by the gulf countries, which have been too condescending in arming and financing anyone who is anti-assad. and today, daesh rules the world, destroying the present, destroying the past, and threatening the future. the costs are borne by mazen darwish, the other human rights activists and journalists who are being illegally detained and then crushed by the terrorists on the one hand and the assad government on the other. the more than 200 victims in palmyra remind us, however, that we must also be realistic and push for an immediate open dialogue with all regional and non-regional actors, so that a solution can be found immediately to put a united front against terrorism, and then, once the country has been stabilized and pacified, to make everyone pay for their responsibilities, including before the international criminal court. we are being asked to do so by a country on its knees and by millions of refugees in the middle east and also in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since 20 may the black flag of isis has been flying over the temples of palmyra. dead bodies and rubble have replaced the marvelous archaeological sites. isis and radical extremism want to erase the progress of our civilization, deny freedom of speech and religion. isis is advancing in syria, libya, iraq and europe is silent, or perhaps it is better to say it talks too much, without doing anything: the commission has not yet taken any action, nor has it taken any strong action, nor has it taken any real decision. europe should be ashamed of its inability to deal with the issue of terrorism, just as it is unable to deal with the problem of immigration, including syrian refugees. you will recall that, on the heels of the emotion of yet another massacre of migrants, there was an extraordinary summit of 28 eu countries on 23 april. a little over a month ago, so action had to be taken immediately, but on tuesday they decided that the much-vaunted european solidarity can wait until september, 100 days! and italy has to make do! the mediterranean sea, meanwhile, continues to be the graveyard of thousands of refugees because of you.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i wonder how it is possible to debate even in the face of such an atrocious case, which i do not even want to mention. i am merely saying that an interdisciplinary committee has been set up which has apparently failed to do its job. i remember that in paraguay abortion is only allowed when the life of a woman, a pregnant girl, is in danger. and i wonder how a girl who's 5'9" and weighs 100 pounds pregnant can't be in any medical danger. this is an exceptional case, but it reminds us that paraguay is unfortunately not meeting its international obligations. the abortion legislation must be completely revised to include cases such as rape and incest, to give all women the opportunity to exercise their inalienable right. we must exert the appropriate political and commercial pressure, because, as mr urtasun said earlier, if we do not intervene we are almost endorsing a kind of live torture. i hope that there will be more responsibility in this parliament on these issues.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all saying this morning, and i repeat it myself, that europe cannot stand by and watch a 10-year-old girl who has become pregnant after being raped by her stepfather. the same kind of evil affects us all as human beings, wherever it may be in the world, but it also affects the european union as an institution, which has the means and the instruments to intervene in the regions where these tragedies occur. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. it has been rightly said that carrying on an unwanted pregnancy in these conditions is tantamount to torture and we must treat this situation as such. this is not an isolated case, but a sadly widespread phenomenon in paraguay and elsewhere. we have a duty to intervene for this child who is only 10 years old and will have to give birth to another child and for all the girls in the world who are suffering such abuse.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again i see that hypocrisy is the master in this chamber. we are talking about a ten-year-old girl from paraguay, who has certainly had a bad accident and will unfortunately pay the consequences. but everyone who speaks in this room, we talk about paraguay, but is there anyone who talks about, for example, the 10,000 suicides in greece, about everything that is happening in europe, about how many children in europe are having big problems? no, we must always give lessons to the world, to paraguay, to ethiopia, to burundi, to burma, to all places, because we give lessons, but we are not capable of managing europe as people ask us to! and then, since you're talking so much, each of those who spoke this morning, pull out a thousand euros each, i pull out too and go to paraguay to help the girl. don't go around making little hypocritical statements, reading a piece of paper, and then not giving a damn about what happens to that little girl. get the money, go to paraguay and help the girl! shame on you!
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a humanitarian tragedy in which 8,786 people have been killed and 22,303 injured. 864,000 people have lost their homes, 5.6 million need immediate medical assistance and 8.1 million need humanitarian assistance. what's coming down on nepal very soon? also the monsoon rains, which are expected in the coming weeks and which could not only bring the supply and aid chain to its knees as many villages are only reachable on foot but even more so, could completely jeopardize the sowing season, destroying the possibility of having a harvest this year. we must act and demand that all aid and funds allocated are used in the most transparent and best possible way, especially to give priority to the defence of the rights of the most vulnerable, women, children and the sick.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy– madam president, on behalf of vice-president/high representative mogherini, i welcome the adoption of parliament’s urgency resolution on the situation in nepal after the devastating earthquakes of 25 april and 12 may. there is a close bond of friendship that ties the european union and its member states to nepal. the european union and its member states have already expressed the deep sympathy and solidarity of the european union for the human losses and injuries, and the physical devastation of homes, infrastructure and heritage sites. a disaster of this size calls for more than words. the eu and its member states were quick to act and show tangible solidarity with the nepalese people. immediately after the earthquake and following the appeal by the nepalese government, there was a clear expression of eu solidarity. the commission provided eur 3 million in humanitarian aid to support, in particular, emergency shelter, healthcare, and logistics and coordination. this amount was doubled to eur 6 million following the visit by the commissioner for humanitarian aid and crisis management, christos stylianides, who travelled to nepal together with valerie amos, the un under-secretary-general and emergency relief coordinator, to express eu solidarity. the european unionʼs civil protection mechanism was also activated to support the rapid deployment of relief material and experts from eu member states. the eu also provided consular support to eu citizens in nepal. in addition, the commission fast-tracked the disbursement of eur 16.6 million from existing development funds. this frontloaded cash allows the nepalese authorities to address the most pressing needs. we are also envisaging, under the instrument contributing to stability and peace, support in bringing necessary supplies to the remotest districts, which are very difficult to access after the earthquake. this support would also address the need for temporary learning spaces, as many schools have been destroyed. concerning your question on the partial reinstatement of custom duties, i would like to inform you about the actual situation. as per the memorandum of understanding between the government of nepal ... (the president interrupted the speaker to ask for quiet in the chamber)we are talking about the earthquake in nepal and how the european union can help. when we talk about the reinstatement of customs duties, we need to know that, as per the memorandum of understanding between the government of nepal and the un, which was signed several years ago now, humanitarian relief items are exempt from customs duties. initial confusion about this in the first few days after the earthquake was overcome and the government applied this approach more coherently following commissioner stylianides’ visit, streamlining procedures. at the end of may, however, the government replaced a general waiver by a list of relief items that remain exempt from customs duties. the un system, which the eu supports, has been actively gathering information from aid agencies on the application of this approach. this will serve as evidence for the meeting the un will have with the authorities so as to resolve the issue. if these efforts at local level are not successful, the commission stands ready to advocate, with the government, building on the contact that has already been established in the response to the earthquake. the eu is now actively participating in the ongoing post-disaster needs assessment, which should be ready by mid-june and which will serve as a basis for the recovery strategy. the eu will participate in the donor conference on reconstruction to take place in kathmandu on 25 june. (the president again called for quiet in the chamber) nepal also needs political stability to push forward its economic development and now its reconstruction. we hope that the long-overdue constitution could be adopted as a key step forward in nepal’s peace process. this should then be followed by establishing more decentralised, strong and accountable institutions. the long-overdue local elections should take place to restore legitimacy at local level. nepal also needs to address a number of human rights challenges, in particular the need to guarantee inclusivity to all and deliver justice to the conflict victims. many members asked about human rights. gender, non-discrimination and children’s rights are key priorities of the eu human rights strategy in nepal. the eu has been a long-standing supporter of civil society in addressing discrimination and violence against women and promoting better social economic conditions for women, as well as promoting the rights of children. the government of nepal has taken measures to prevent the trafficking of children. for instance, since the earthquake, the government has been more watchful of any possible trafficking and has been trying to raise public awareness against it. some of the districts most affected by the earthquake are the source districts from which trafficking of girls has taken place. (the president called for silence in the chamber) the eu supports a number of human rights organisations working on women’s and children’s rights which are active in the fight against human trafficking. the eu has been funding programmes to combat case-based discrimination and the untouchability issue, including supporting dalit-led organisations and empowering other vulnerable groups such as women and children in slums. as one of the major donors, the eu will continue to monitor the distribution of aid, as well as responding to human rights issues such as impunity and discrimination. nepal has survived a terrible tragedy. time will be needed for full recovery. therefore, the eu and other international partners will continue to support nepal and its people in these endeavours. i thank you very much for your interest in the situation in nepal. (applause)
in writing. after the recent earthquakes that hit nepal hard, still the poorest country in south asia, it is estimated that about three million people are in need of immediate humanitarian assistance, as the monsoon season approaches. despite the immediate relief provided by the eu, its member states and the international community, we express our deep concern that hundreds of thousands of people remain without aid and are still in isolated areas, unreached by aid. we call for special attention to be paid to the precarious situation of children and women, with regard to the problem of their malnutrition and lack of health care, and to the growing danger of outbreaks and the spread of epidemics. while welcoming the fact that the eu has recently tripled the amount of funds dedicated to eu-nepal cooperation in its budget, we call for further support for the country in its transition to democracy and in the field of development cooperation. community aid should be channelled through local organisations where possible in order to promote self-sufficiency and support local industries and businesses, which is also essential to achieve a rapid transition towards a sustainable recovery of the country.
in writing. ‒ i have seen many controversial aspects in the report, which is why i did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to vote in favour of this resolution because i am convinced that the annexation of sevastopol and crimea by the russian federation represents a very serious violation of international law.
in writing. - i voted no. the report is overly anti-russian. the eu's policy on this subject is wrong and biased and seems to be inspired by american indications. otherwise, there is no explanation for an embargo which is doing more harm to european businesses than good for the political situation.
in writing. ‒ the concern about the 'russian arms race' demonstrated by the report must also take into account hostile attitudes on the part of the west, such as funding for anti-russian factions that mislead the eu from its soft power propensity. contrary to what the pascu report claims, the only solution for the european union institutions is to try again to find a diplomatic solution with moscow. i believe that we must absolutely, by all means and at all costs, resume diplomatic dialogue with moscow, because not only is it unthinkable to engage in a confrontation, but it would be even worse to do so by proxy. i also believe that the real big risk is that a completely drifting russia will seek an ever closer and stronger partnership with china, and perhaps even iran, creating an asian bloc which would then create a much bigger problem than we are facing today. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the report on the strategic military situation in the black sea basin following the events in crimea. the dossier under consideration is a sensitive and sensitive subject which should be discussed further at the highest political and diplomatic levels.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, with its limited powers in foreign affairs, is not, in my view, the place to decide whether the choices made by other sovereign states are correct or not. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore abstained because i felt agnostic about this text.
in writing. ‒ the events in the strategic black sea area have changed europe's geopolitical balance, especially in terms of energy security, and have opened up new scenarios to which european foreign policy must respond. in this context, i share the need for europe to speak with one voice, but i would stress the importance of redefining relations with russia in a more cooperative rather than a confrontational way.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i believe it is important to point out the complete absence in the text of any self-criticism on the part of europe in relation to its own work; what is not lacking, however, is a very strong criticism of russia, which, in pursuing its geopolitical interests, is certainly making reprehensible mistakes, but certainly no less than the european and american forces. what europe does not seem to understand is that thwarting the possibility of a large russian-led asian bloc by resuming diplomatic dialogue with moscow would be far preferable to financing proxy war. nor, in my view, is the confidence in turkey as a reliable ally, given all the criticisms this parliament has repeatedly raised against it, and the recent talks between istanbul and moscow, acceptable.
in writing. - as with the previous report on russia, i believe that this report too is a stupid attempt to play war. no further comment is necessary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the strategic military situation in the black sea basin following russia's illegal annexation of crimea. this illegal annexation has upset the military balance in the black sea basin, which is one of the most strategic regions in the world and of vital importance to the eu and its member states. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations with the united states and other countries, including the united states, on the basis of the agreement reached in geneva on the basis of the geneva conventions.
in writing. ‒ i fully share the view that the black sea basin is a region of strategic importance for the european union and its member states. however, my judgment remains unchanged as to the strategy to be adopted to ensure greater security within the area. i have therefore decided to abstain from voting on this report.
in writing. ‒ the black sea basin is one of the most strategic regions in the world, of vital importance to the european union and its member states, particularly when it comes to ensuring their security and defence, and of great importance also for the neighbourhood and eastern partnership policies. we reiterate our firm opposition to russia's annexation of crimea, and reaffirm our commitment to the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine. we note with concern that the illegal annexation of crimea has brought about a significant change in the strategic landscape of the black sea basin, leading to a return to a hostile approach based on the confrontation of two blocs. we are concerned about the intensification of russian pressure on the eu's eastern border, including on romania, poland and the baltic states. we regard the recent close fly-bys by russian warplanes over nato warships and exploration platforms in the black sea as a tangible sign of a more aggressive russian attitude and warn of a high risk of a worsening of the situation. we hope that the ceasefire agreement reached in minsk will be respected and will contribute to a negotiated political solution.
in writing. ‒ i share the concerns about the strategic changes in the black sea basin following the annexation of crimea by russia, but i do not share the strategy proposed in this report. i do not think that sanctions are the right answer to the problem. the isolation of russia is harmful to europe as a whole and to the whole system of international relations. if we are concerned about the prosperity and peace of the continent, we must redouble our efforts to rebuild a dialogue with that country. i therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have decided to abstain from voting on the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the strategic military situation in the black sea basin following russia's illegal annexation of crimea. relations with russia, as one of the major players on the international scene, should in the long term generally be more cooperative than confrontational. it is up to eu policy-makers to continue the constructive dialogue with russia that began with the minsk agreements, hoping that the ceasefire agreement reached on 12 february 2015 will be respected and thus providing the time needed for a negotiated political solution. in this context, russia needs reassurance that both eu-ukraine cooperation and nato's commitment to support the regional efforts of the black sea littoral states are not military actions taken against moscow. the further militarization of the region can only lead to serious consequences for both sides. to achieve long-term peace and stability, russia and all parties involved should use their influence to stop hostilities, prevent further war crimes and new casualties.
in writing. ‒ on the situation in the black sea basin, i would vote in favour because the rapporteur, mr pașcu, has done a very good job of drawing attention to the sensitive issues surrounding russia's dangerous deployment of conventional naval forces and bombers that allow tactical missiles to reach the bosphorus. i share the view that the annexation of crimea should not be recognised and i hope that effective dialogue with russia can be established.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the committee on foreign affairs on the 'strategic military situation in the black sea basin following russia's illegal annexation of crimea'. the house also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the immediate release of all political prisoners. it is a strategic achievement, in that it has established a permanent naval task force, which allows putin's russia to see the balkans more and more closely. this situation is not only a matter of concern to europe in terms of how to resolve relations with the soviets, but it also calls attention to the urgency of revising the european security strategy and the european neighbourhood policy, a change which should aim at better cooperation with the partner states bordering the black sea.
in writing. ‒ european citizens who read this resolution will be stocking up on canned beans and biscuits. the european parliament has been unable to reach a consensus on the text of the treaty of rome, and the council has not been able to reach a consensus on the text of the treaty of rome. the pascu resolution deliberately misrepresents events in eastern europe in order to attribute aggressive behaviour to russia and to identify russia as the great enemy of the eu. to restore the truth of the facts would require a text as long: i'm not allowed to. i voted against it. i 'll just point out one fact: this resolution flatters the european union over nato, as if nato were the only bulwark against russian aggression. but in reality it is nato that has been expanding towards russia for years. until 1990 nato's eastern borders were fixed at italy and west germany; continuing eastwards, a belt of buffer states (from yugoslavia to finland), the warsaw pact countries and finally the borders of the ussr met in order. the question is whether the person who drew up and then approved this text has a conscience or is sufficiently clear-headed.
in writing. ‒ the scandal surrounding corruption in the fifa leadership is something that is mortifying the entire football world and casts a heavy shadow on one of the most popular and beloved sports. the genuine values of sport, such as friendship, healthy rivalry and competition, a sense of limit, respect for the rules and the opponent, which should inform the whole football movement, seem to have been completely set aside. the decisions of the governing bodies of fifa, and sometimes also those of the various national federations, do not seem to be informed by those principles of financial fair play, good governance and transparency, which are too often only proclaimed. a deep and very radical reform of fifa is therefore needed, and of the system in general, which now seems completely out of control and governed by the logic of profit at any cost: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. this also seems necessary in the light of the social and educational role played by footballers and workers today, especially in relation to the younger generations. the resolution aims to raise all these issues and calls for the reform process to be started, so i voted in favour.
in writing. the report does not present any particular criticisms, and i share it, particularly in the part where it condemns the widespread corruption within the top of fifa and i believe that greater control and transparency are needed, which is why i supported it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the recent revelations of corruption within fifa show that the game of football has been governed in an unworthy way for the last twenty years. given the enormous economic interests at stake, i believe it is important to call for a radical renewal of the sport's leadership and for greater transparency in all areas of fifa's activities.
in writing. - i voted for the measure. the football world is getting dirtier and more corrupt. we need more transparency and control, and dirty hands don't touch a ball.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the recent revelations of corruption cases at the fifa summit. i hope that the resolution adopted by parliament will contribute to a serious discussion on how to eradicate corruption from the world of football, whose image at all levels is in danger of being tarnished by these events. a review of fifa's statutes, structure, codes and operational policies and practices should therefore be undertaken as a matter of urgency with a view to improving transparency in both the decision-making processes and the remuneration arrangements for fifa officials; the fans, the fans, the hard workers, they deserve it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as our points on greater transparency and democracy in decision-making and on the protection of fundamental rights when awarding high-level sports competitions were welcomed in the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the recent revelations of corruption cases at the fifa summit. on 27 may 2015, swiss authorities arrested 14 fifa executives in zurich on charges of money laundering, racketeering, bribery and fraud for a total damage of over usd 150 million. a criminal investigation has been launched into the awarding of the world cup in russia and qatar. despite the arrests, fifa president joseph blatter managed to get himself elected for a fifth term and then resigned a few days later due to further developments in the investigation. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's sporting and cultural heritage is protected and that the eu's sporting heritage is protected.
in writing. ‒ the revelations that have emerged in recent days regarding fifa's behaviour are quite disconcerting. i love sport, i play it when i can and i follow it with passion, and i have to say that certain accusations hurt those who, like me, believe that sport is and should be the symbol and emblem of fairness. the fact that the facts must be ascertained, and i am a convinced guarantor, i voted in favour of this resolution to leave it written in black and white that sport and corruption should never be associated, and that football must remain beautiful because it is clean. i hope that the accusations will prove to be unfounded or that, if they are not, those who have done wrong will pay in an exemplary manner.
in writing. ‒ first of all, i can only express my regret about the events that have involved fifa, the arrests and the ongoing criminal investigation into the awarding of the 2008 and 2022 world cups. this situation has seriously damaged the integrity of world football and sport in general, not only at the professional level but also at the amateur level, undermining trust in sporting institutions. let us not forget that such organisations are of fundamental importance in the global promotion of educational and cultural values, inclusion, peace, solidarity, loyalty and respect for human rights. i therefore call for a reform of fifa, through the implementation of strict ethical standards and a code of conduct for its management and the executive committee, in order to ensure greater democracy, transparency, legitimacy and accountability in the future. it is the responsibility of the eu, each member state, sports organisations and sponsors to support good governance in sport and to cooperate in countering transnational threats to the integrity and ethics of sport, such as doping, match-fixing, violence and all forms of intolerance and discrimination.
in writing. ‒ corruption, money laundering and betting have unfortunately steadily entered the world's most popular sport, with a devastating effect on the entire football world, from the highest level of professional football to local amateur clubs. i therefore voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the recent revelations of corruption at the fifa summit, because it is time to turn the page, adopt a zero-tolerance policy on corruption in sport and remove any shadow over the events of recent years. we therefore strongly call for an unreserved commitment by fifa to a thorough review of past and present decisions and the adoption of new reforms such as: the amendment of the statute, codes, structure, operational policies and, above all, the introduction of mandate limits leading to total transparency in the future. the integrity of football is at stake and fans are looking forward to a new season in which the bad guys are out of the stadium for good.
in writing. ‒ the recent corruption allegations against the international football federation (fifa) have seriously undermined the credibility and integrity of world football. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it is necessary to adopt a policy of zero tolerance for corruption in football and to introduce deep structural reforms within the fifa organisation itself.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on what happened on 27 may 2015, when 14 fifa executives were arrested on serious charges of money laundering, racketeering, corruption and fraud amounting to about 150 million euros. in reality, this serious event has only re-emphasized an organization whose lack of transparency and corruption have long been known. the european parliament now hopes that sporting organisations and member states will cooperate in all ongoing investigations and that the investigation of past corruption practices will lead to the release of all those who may be responsible. the request to fifa to finally make public the full text of the garcia report on the controversial procedure for the allocation of the 2018 and 2022 world cups is also fully acceptable. it was therefore appropriate that the european parliament should have spoken so strongly on a matter which invades a sector which has a great influence on millions of europeans.
in writing. the scenario that emerges in the wake of the fifa scandal is truly disturbing: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, corruption, criminal enterprise, sports fraud, the exploitation of workers employed in the construction of the infrastructure for the world cup in qatar and, last but not least, the arrogance of power. it is time to say enough about this charade that has been perpetrated against millions of sportsmen, passionate followers of football, the most popular sport in the world. the positive values inherent in sport, and among them football, have nothing to do with the corrupt and paramafioso management of fifa. we therefore call for every initiative to be taken to ensure transparency and democracy within the governance systems of the football world, starting with fifa. it is also necessary to clarify the alleged illegal allocations of the last world cups and, if appropriate, invalidate the allocation of the 2018 and 2020 editions should it become apparent that they are the result of corrupt activities. on the contrary, the positive values of sport should be reinforced by encouraging educational projects and sports activities based on the promotion of integrity and ethics in both individual and collective behaviour. we need loyalty, honesty and fairness, otherwise, as a game, we don't like football anymore.
in writing. ‒ it is right and proper to condemn the increasingly dirty world of football following the investigations that are upsetting fifa. it calls for greater transparency and control.
in writing. sport is by its very nature a vehicle for healthy values in society, a messenger of peace and social inclusion, a means of involving young people and educating them in fair play, respect for others, and moral integrity. at a time when sport, and especially football - the most popular game in the world - is becoming a symbol of corruption and reckless economic interests, as is unfortunately the case with fifa these days, the profound positive social impact and its intrinsic meaning risk being distorted and threatened. europe must therefore help to remind people of the true universal values underlying sport and take all the measures in its power to overcome these last regrettable events, restoring as soon as possible confidence in the world of sport and regaining a sense of responsibility and reputation. i therefore welcome the motion for a resolution and i greatly appreciate the efforts already made by the eu in this direction by launching the erasmus+ programme which is aimed at these objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the recent revelations of high-level corruption in fifa because i believe that the recent investigations into corruption within fifa, culminating in the arrest of 14 executives, clearly show how big a problem transactional corruption in sport is. criminal activity, which takes various forms, influences decision-making processes relating to sporting events, indelibly tarnishes the image of sport, obscuring its educational values of promoting peace, solidarity, the fight against racism and respect for human rights. all sports, and football in particular, have a profound social impact and cannot be tainted in any way by a corrupt and predatory culture. i therefore welcome the call to the governing bodies of sport to promote reforms and measures that bring greater transparency, democracy and control of decision-making processes involving important economic and sporting interests. the self-regulation of professional sport must be based on the principles of good governance, transparency and respect for the law. finally, i believe that cooperation and dialogue between sports authorities, public authorities and police forces at all levels should be strengthened, and that mechanisms should be set up to prevent such incidents from happening again.
in writing. following recent news of corruption in the top echelons of the international football federation (fifa), the european parliament decided to express its opinion by means of a motion for a resolution. the us-led investigation has implicated the fifa secretary general, and presumably the presidency, in possible corruption cases in the awarding of the world cup to south africa, russia and qatar, for 2010, 2018 and 2022 respectively. i voted in favour because i believe that corruption is a vile act, to be condemned in all sectors, both public and private, and even more so in the case of such high-level sporting events. sport and its values must be free from purely economic logic.
in writing. ‒ beyond its purely health-related aspects, sport contributes to social inclusion and integration, promotes cultural exchanges and creates jobs within the european union. the fifa affair is a serious case of corruption and criminality in this discipline that risks tarnishing the image of this sport as a whole. i believe it is necessary to stop similar cases, to intensify the reform process and to improve transparency in both the decision-making processes and the remuneration of the federation's officials. i therefore think it appropriate to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ transparency, accountability and democracy within sports organisations are the three principles that must be respected in order to effectively combat corruption in sport. recent events have shown how the phenomenon of corruption can undermine trust in sports institutions, threatening the credibility of sport in general. for these reasons i have decided to support this resolution, in which the european parliament expresses its total opposition to any form of corruption in the world of sport.
in writing. ‒ fifa has been accused of poor governance and lack of transparency in the past. the recent arrests raise fears that this is a systemic condition within international football, and not an isolated incident. this resolution was necessary at the time precisely to restore the credibility of a governing body of world football which is called upon to implement strict ethical standards and a code of conduct for its management from the outset. my vote on the resolution on the recent cases of corruption at the top of fifa could not but be in favour. illicit behaviour damages the integrity of world football and leads to abuses in football practice. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states concerning the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the 'competition' in article 2 of regulation (eu) no 1215/2013. a reform that includes the amendment of the fifa statutes, structure, codes and operating practices. the promotion and dissemination of sporting values among young people is essential, even more so by those who are responsible for the organisation of world football, who must show responsibility when they assume an 'educational' function.
in writing. ‒ following the recent scandals involving some senior fifa officials and given the transnational nature of corruption in sport, this resolution is intended to highlight the need for more effective cooperation between all stakeholders. the new eu sports programme, under erasmus+, is moving in the right direction: the commission will continue to support new transnational educational projects that address cross-border threats to the integrity of sport, such as doping, match-fixing and violence, as well as all forms of intolerance and discrimination, and will aim to promote and support good governance in the sector. corruption often has implications, not just financial, that go beyond the community's borders, and for this reason it is one of the priorities of the european commission's action in the stockholm programme. we call today on the fifa executive committee to implement the structural reforms needed to ensure greater transparency in decision-making and higher ethical and conduct standards, which are essential to restoring international credibility to the world's most loved and played sport. we also call on interpol, europol and eurojust to launch their own investigations into possible cases of corruption by fifa officials in the eu.
in writing. ‒ football, thanks to its popularity and widespread use, has a great social impact and more. it is a great tool for integration and a formidable glue, able to unite very different populations. it is therefore our duty to contribute to the defence of this sport and we owe it above all to the young and the very young, who with enthusiasm and passion, and often with sacrifices, dedicate their lives to this game. therefore, defending the integrity of many against the rot of corruption is our moral duty. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ regarding the recent events concerning corruption at the fifa summit, i would vote in favour of the report proposed by my colleagues from the epp, as i fully share the idea that it is necessary to combat transnational corruption in general and in particular in the sports sector, which plays a key role in promoting peace, solidarity and fundamental rights, as well as representing a large and growing sector of the european economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution tabled by the political groups of the european parliament on the 'recent revelations of corruption at the fifa summit'. in the light of the recent scandals involving the leadership of the international football federation, which led to the arrest of 14 fifa executives and the resignation of president blatter, parliament called on fifa to implement structural reforms as a matter of urgency to ensure greater transparency and a more democratic decision-making process. the objective is clear: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. the resolution i voted for also calls for the cases of corruption relating to the awarding of the football world cup, including the one in 2018 which is due to take place in russia, to be brought to light.
in writing. ‒ the scandal that is engulfing the highest levels of fifa is staggering. day by day we are discovering how the organization that regulates the most played and loved sport in the world has been run in a clientelistic manner by its executives. bribes and undue pressure are the opposite of the values of honesty, loyalty and respect that a sport like football should convey. it is sad to know that behind the organization of the last editions of the football world cup, which are usually the most followed sporting event globally, there have been cases of corruption to shift decisive votes in the allocation of the games. i hope that the football world will learn to clean up its act and that sport will once again be the focus of discussion and not scandal.
in writing. ‒ the scandal that has engulfed fifa has damaged the credibility of the world football's governing body. sport must transmit values and healthy competitiveness, not be dragged into shameful transactions that obscure even the clearest victories. fifa must modernise itself and accept the scrutiny of the international community. that is why i voted in favour of this report and i hope that it will serve as a basis for a healthy discussion on sports governance.
in writing. ‒ on 27 may, swiss authorities arrested 14 fifa executives, including the vice-president, in zurich, on the basis of a us department of justice arrest warrant, on charges of money laundering, racketeering, bribery and fraud, amounting to more than $150 million. those investigations have shown that fifa has operated for many years as an irresponsible, non-transparent and notoriously corrupt organisation, and that these conditions are systemic, widespread and constant rather than being isolated cases of wrongdoing, as claimed by former fifa president joseph blatter. the arrests of fifa executives and the resignation of president blatter have created the conditions necessary to radically reform the structures and practices of the federation, so as to improve its governance and fight corruption within it without delay. it should be noted that the integrity of sports organisations is of paramount importance, as sport, both professional and amateur, plays a key role in the global promotion of peace, respect for human rights and solidarity. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's policy on the fight against corruption and on the implementation of the union's policy on the fight against corruption.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 11 june 2015.
♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
the final draft agenda, drawn up by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, was distributed at its meeting on thursday 11 june 2015. i would like to inform you that the committee on legal affairs has approved the following two reports on immunity: a8-0191/2015 (mr ferrara) and a8-0192/2015 (mr zwiefka). in accordance with rule 9 (8) of parliament's rules of procedure, these reports will be put to the vote during today's vote. as regards the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council meeting of 25 and 26 june, the greens/efa group asked that the speakers of the political groups should be replaced by a full debate.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council meeting (25 and 26 june 2015) ((2015/2629 ((rsp)). i would remind you that there is no catch-the-eye procedure on this point and that no blue-card applications will be accepted.
i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. i would have liked to comment today on the final outcome of the negotiations on greece, but we are still discussing the question of 'if'. i remember in february it was said that an agreement had been reached; in april, the same thing was said. last monday it seemed that an agreement had finally been reached. i think this is the right time, but i still hear critics: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. and i am sorry that a person whom i hold in high esteem, mr weber, is still saying today at 3 p.m. that the greek government has yet to make proposals. the agreement is there, it is on the table, and it was achieved mainly thanks to the efforts of president juncker and the european commission, which must be acknowledged for having acted with balance and responsibility. but if there is a deal, why wait? what are we waiting for? i can't imagine what it would be like. we would be ridiculous if the integrity of the euro zone and the future of europe were to be jeopardized by a few points of vat on greek catering. what game are we playing? if anyone wants to delay the time to humiliate the greek people we tell them they are wrong. the government - and we are not in the tsipras government - is changed by the vote of the citizens. and now it is not the tsipras government that is in question, nor the judgment on the tsipras government: the salvation of the greek people and the survival and integrity of the eurozone are now at stake. the exhausting prolongation of technical discussions reveals the danger of a bureaucratic europe without a vision, also on immigration. i thank president timmermans for his strong, firm and visionary speech. but it is not the same in the council. i must say this with great sincerity and also with great sadness. on the one hand, there are countries like italy that are committed to doing everything possible to save lives in the mediterranean, and on the other hand, there are governments like hungary that unilaterally erect protective walls against migrants. and i have to say that i feel very sad that it is precisely a country like hungary, which has suffered the iron curtain on its own, that is building new walls against migrants. the strategy of the european commission has been right and seems to have been partly accepted by the member states, only partly. well, the confirmation of the 40,000 migrants who will be welcomed into europe. well, the establishment of hotspots. but it's not enough. i understand diplomacy, but we can't reduce everything to an ambiguous vocabulary exercise. i hear that some states are in favour of solidarity but against compulsory mechanisms. what does that mean? i would like to know what it means that these are not mandatory mechanisms. explain to me specifically what that means. and do we want to take refuge in the lexical exercise of a distinction of words, faced with such a vast subject? or should we go to the heart of the matter and show our credentials and prove that we are fit to be the leaders of europe? if we are not the leaders of a europe... i'll tell the governments. why are we afraid and complaining about the populist drift? the populist drift is anti-european; it's the lack of attributes that makes orbán do these things. if one state is against another state, it is because there is no european decision. if there is and will be a european vision, these things will end. that is why the european parliament has every right to make its voice heard. this house - despite some minorities whose views i respect but do not share - has always expressed strong positions on this subject, which i wish to reiterate in my speech.
in the interests of fairness, president schulz decided to postpone the vote and the sovereign assembly decided to postpone the debate. so the vote was not cancelled, nor was the debate cancelled. they were just postponed.
before i give the floor to the first vice-president of the commission and to mrs kalniņa-lukaševica, i have the great pleasure of informing you that a delegation from the indian parliament has taken its place in the gallery of official visitors. i can extend a warm welcome to the indian delegation led by the speaker of the lok sabha, mr sumitra mahajan. the delegation is here today at the invitation of the president to strengthen the ties between our two parliaments. meetings between the indian parliament and the european parliament have been taking place since 1981. india's importance to the european union is growing as a reflection of the strategic partnership established in 2004, and our delegation for relations with india has undertaken a series of visits to the country, most recently in march this year, when the president had the pleasure of inviting the hon. speaker of the indian parliament to brussels. it is a pleasure to welcome our friends and colleagues from the lok sabha here today. we hope that your visit to the european parliament, which began earlier this week and ends today, has been a positive one and that it will help to increase the friendship and communication between our parliaments in the years ahead. i now turn to mr van orden, chairman of the eu-india parliamentary delegation, for a very brief greeting.
once again, i extend my warm greetings to the representatives of the indian parliament. you are always welcome in europe.
first vice-president of the commission.– mr president, let me react to some of the remarks and comments made. first, on greece, i insist the commission will continue its efforts to find a compromise which is acceptable to everyone, which is based on the idea that we should not let the greek people suffer more, and find a way out of this problem. those of you who have argued – i refer especially to mr nuttall and ms le pen – that that they are great friends of the greek people and are arguing against the euro and saying that we should leave the euro, should perhaps reconsider their friendship or their position, because the greek people by a vast majority do not want to get rid of the euro. they want to find a solution within the euro and, if you declare yourselves to be such great friends of the greek people, you might perhaps even follow their wisdom in that. now i can see somebody sitting next to ms le pen making a signal as though you are completely crazy. so your friends call you crazy. (interjection from the floor: ‘the euro is a disaster, sir’) sir, with friends like you, i would rather have enemies. (interjection from the floor: ‘better than the eurozone’) another subject that surprised me is that mr nuttall complained about the fact that his meps could not reach the european parliament yesterday because of a strike. i was under the impression that his party did everything possible to get rid of the european parliament. you cannot have it both ways, mr nuttall. (interjections from the floor: ‘no, he said british meps’; ‘they are all trying to enter britain, sir, they are all trying to flee europe’) i would hope that not all british meps forgot about their wonderful, wonderful legacy of being open to the world, of being self-confident enough not to be thinking in terms of building gates along the borders of europe. this brings me immediately to my second point, which is on migration. either we will find european solutions, or we will not find solutions and keep on working with the problems we have today. that is my deep conviction. i think to create the impression that, by keeping people out, we will solve the problem is not only morally suspect but is politically impossible. it will not happen. we are not australia. we are not located in the middle of an ocean. we cannot apply the same solutions. by the way, what are you going to say to the family fleeing war in damascus, or in other places in syria or elsewhere? ‘you have no right to asylum, you should stay there, you should be killed there? no, you should stay in the region.’ yes, go and say that to countries like jordan. go and say that to a country like lebanon, where one quarter of the population are refugees. sir, i think you need to rethink this idea that, by simply keeping people out, we will solve the problem. europe will need to take its responsibility to find a sustainable solution based on our values. if we compromise our values on this issue, we will compromise our values on all other issues that we need to deal with, including issues pertaining to our own citizens. (applause)so i plead with the council to follow the commission’s reasoning tomorrow. give us better reasoning, give us better solutions or follow our reasoning. the commission will stick to its proposition. i feel reinforced today by the position of the majority of this parliament to stick to this proposition. we have tried before with voluntary schemes. they have failed. i think it is an issue of political and moral integrity to see that and to draw the right conclusions from that. i wish the members of the european council the inspiration to take this seriously. on the specific issue raised by mr verhofstadt on hungary, the commission is now in close consultation with the hungarian government to know what these technical reasons are; why, etc. we are not even sure that there is a suspension. there are all sorts of rumours, so we are trying to find out exactly what has happened. we will certainly demand of all member states that they apply the rules and, if there is an emergency situation – there are indications that hungary is facing a sudden enormous surge of refugees; that can be an emergency situation – we have instruments at our disposal to assist member states to address that emergency situation. but simply stopping admission is not one of the instruments allowed by european rules. we are there to assist member states and we are also fully committed to assisting hungary in this. we are in the process of talking to them about this, but we do urge all member states to simply respect the rules we have agreed jointly. we will certainly continue to follow this very closely with hungary. finally, i want to reiterate, on behalf of the commission, that this european council needs to take bold steps forward in terms of the migration issue. if we do not decide today, more people will die and we will not be able to start implementing the rules and the necessary measures we will need to discuss in july. the commission will appeal – jean-claude juncker will appeal – to all other members of the european council to take responsibility on the basis of the commission’s proposal, with strong support from the european parliament. (interjection from the floor: ‘grexit followed by brexit’)
the president-in-office of the council. mr president, representative of the commission, honourable members! thank you for this very dynamic, precise, concrete discussion! it's about migration. as i have said, the council is looking for a comprehensive, balanced and long-term solution. i understand that the european commission is committed to defending its proposal, but the council is not yet convinced that this is the best way to address the causes of the problems rather than simply tackling the consequences of the crisis. ladies and gentlemen of the house of commons! if flooding occurs repeatedly, a dam should be built instead of a flood screen. i would stress (in case i am not clear enough at the outset) that there is no doubt in the mind of anyone in the council about the need to help those who really need help. there is no doubt in the council about the need to strengthen development cooperation. there is no doubt about the need to cooperate with countries of origin and help 'frontier countries' to combat people smugglers. but we still have to discuss the best way to achieve a complete, sustainable solution, a real and effective solution. at the same time, the council has always been ready to respond. the council has worked actively to implement the emergency measures approved by the european council in april and to prevent loss of life in the mediterranean. i would remind you that the council has supported a tripling of the budget of frontex. member states have provided additional technical and human resources for frontex, which has already saved lives in the mediterranean and prevented a repeat of the april tragedy. secondly, as i have already said, the council has agreed to launch a common security and defence policy operation in the mediterranean. and thirdly, the council is actively working on preventive and comprehensive cooperation with countries of origin and transit. the council will find solutions and agree on truly comprehensive solutions for migration policy as a whole. it's about greece. i understand the impatience of the european parliament. we are all looking forward to greece, and i must admit that the situation is not easy. but we must allow greece to show us all that it is able to propose and implement a reform plan. and tomorrow's meeting, i hope, will bring some positive news. you don't drown because you've fallen in the water. a man drowns because he stays in the water. we must give greece a chance to get out of this rut. we can only hope that the outcome of the talks will be sustainable. reforms and consolidation are always painful. but from our own country's experience, too, we can say that voters are able to appreciate the courage of the government and its ability to take difficult decisions promptly, to do the necessary work to ensure the stability, well-being and security of its citizens. what is needed is a solution, not prolonged agony and stagnation. i think it is in all our interests to see a strong, united, economically prosperous european union, a single euro area, a stable economy. we must therefore be able to overcome its difficulties, to act with courage and to do the work that is needed, and the european council's agenda includes equally important issues on the common economy of the european union, on country-specific recommendations, on the five presidents' reports, and, of great importance, on strengthening the internal and external security of the european union. these are all very, very closely interrelated. thank you for today's discussion! let me take this opportunity to thank the european parliament very much for this very fruitful six months of cooperation with the latvian presidency. we have had dynamic discussions, we have sought solutions to many difficulties and we have reached agreements on important issues. thank you very much for that! and i would like to wish not only the next luxembourg presidency, but the european union as a whole, a more peaceful, less crisis-ridden, and more stability, security and growth-filled six months ahead. thank you so much!
parliament also thanks the outgoing presidency for the work and excellent cooperation it has shown over the past six months. thank you again. the debate is closed.
in writing. today we are talking about the european council summit which will be held here in brussels in the next few hours. the agenda includes key issues such as immigration and the greek crisis. these are urgent questions. the solutions which this council is about to discuss call on all of us to consider the future of europe, and to take action on the basis of the union itself. and that is precisely why it is imperative that common commitment, shared responsibility and solidarity be the guiding principles of the coming days. we must give back its soul to a europe that now breeds fear. going beyond technicalities and parameters to bring back the community of people we love and that holds us together. the answer to immigration cannot be that the problem does not concern us, just as the answer to the economic difficulties of the member states cannot be an exit. we have heard today in this house the difficulty of taking quick decisions in such situations. i do not agree, and i would like to thank vice-president timmermans for saying the opposite, that 'time is running out and we must get straight to the point'.
in writing. the greek crisis is clearly demonstrating the limits and negative consequences of austerity policies applied in times of crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. what greece and europe as a whole need is a paradigm shift that focuses intervention not on cuts but on growth, through investments that promote competitiveness and give workers and small and mediumsized enterprises oxygen. the greek case also highlights the need for a union which is not merely monetary but economic and social, which acts with the aim of full employment and the defence of the rights of citizens.
in writing. for years parliament has called for greater involvement of the european union as a whole in tackling the phenomenon of waves of migration from countries in africa and the middle east which are burdened by devastating political, social and economic conditions. unfortunately, attention to these demands was often only given when there were major human tragedies, and then faded away a few days later without any concrete proposals for solutions. parliament has demanded a different response this time and the commission must be credited for the start of a wide-ranging and detailed work which culminated in proposals based on the equitable distribution of burdens and responsibilities among all the european countries. a proposal, perhaps for the first time, which is truly european and not just a help to those states which, for geographical reasons, are faced with the phenomenon directly and on the front line. it is important, therefore, to stress that this time 'europe', as it is generically referred to in many media, has lived up to its role, making proposals which we consider an important step in the right direction. it is now up to the member states, meeting in the european council today and tomorrow, to demonstrate that their membership of the european union is much more than economic union and is based on deep-rooted and shared values.
in writing. the greek pantomime is clearly demonstrating once and for all both the structural problems of the euro and the myopia of the economic policies of the european institutions. how can we expect further fiscal austerity to bring about growth again? there will never be any growth and the measures being discussed in the eurogroup are absolutely insane, all the vat increases and the corporate tax increases. we must be aware that austerity is inherent in the structure of the euro: the european council in brussels in december last year, in the context of the european council in brussels, expressed the hope that the european council would be able to take a decision on the future of the european union. the only tool available to the euro to deal with a crisis is internal devaluation: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat unemployment. the european institutions bear a great deal of responsibility for the greek situation and are proposing the same solutions which have brought greece to this situation, which is socially and economically unsustainable. a serious debate on a renegotiation of the debt is opened: greece needs to exit the euro to recover the tools and hope to return to growth. but this frightens the eurocrats, whose only aim is to save the wrong currency, even at the cost of human lives.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not believe that this agreement is helping to revive the european economy as the supporters of the juncker commission would have us believe. firstly, this plan relies too much on private investment, which is only for their own personal profit, and where there are risks, they always have the eu guarantee, and therefore the taxpayers' guarantee, to cover them. it never changes anything. the profits are privatized and the losses are socialized. the projects that are being supported are the same, from large and useless infrastructure to gasification plants and gas storage facilities. are these the new, alternative, high value-added projects? it is clear, moreover, that the efsi is only a complete and carefully constructed fiction. the eib has been identifying the projects it wants to finance for months. it has not even waited until the end of the parliamentary procedure to make its decisions public. it is probably right that you are dealing with a parliament which is passively subject to decisions taken from above and decided elsewhere. i think the citizens want more from us, but you can also rejoice for this yet another gift to the usual people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are going to approve the most important initiative taken by the juncker commission so far, an initiative which is part of a macroeconomic strategy which finally has significant elements of innovation compared to the past. it was a good page of parliamentary democracy. we will all remember the long nights of negotiation forever. i would like to thank vice-president georgieva, vice-president katainen, council representative mihails kozlovs and the whole negotiating team, starting with udo bullmann and josé manuel fernandes. a fine page of parliamentary democracy which has shown how the union method can be an efficient decision-making system, which has enabled us to improve the text considerably by building what seems to be a broad political consensus, which has been built not in the abstract but in the concrete process of improving the legislative text. i need not remind you of the many improvements which have been made to the text by parliament's work: the selection and appointment process, accountability, governance, setting of objectives for investment guidelines, the evaluation system, the scoreboard. i would particularly like to stress how we have helped to clarify and strengthen a concept of real additionality of investment, that is a real ability of the plan to help overcome market failures, financial fragmentation, by showing that, on the one hand, if we have to work - vice-president katainen is right - just as quickly and concretely on the digital single market, on the capital market union, at the same time it is an important recognition that the market needs public policies, without which investments do not get where they should. and then, very importantly, i would like to thank vice-president katainen for the statement he formally read out here today: this is another important step in moving from a rigid and bureaucratic interpretation of the stability pact to one that allows and encourages member states to contribute to the national platforms and to the strengthening of the fund's investment capacity. so we have a good basis and i am sure that parliament will continue to exercise its prerogatives to the full in order to contribute to the effective implementation of the investment plan.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the establishment of the european fund for strategic investments, the cornerstone of the juncker plan, we are finally talking about investment and growth in europe and no longer about austerity. the european parliament deserves credit for having improved the original proposal, which was put forward by the commission, and i congratulate the rapporteurs. i am thinking, for example, of the changes to make the work of the steering committee more transparent and of the reduction in the budget for two key programmes such as the connecting europe facility and horizon 2020 compared with the commission's original proposal, which will result in greater protection for the research sector. it is therefore a positive step, some have called it a good day, but it is to be hoped that the fund will retain its objective of actually leveraging private investment. it goes without saying that in order to strengthen confidence in the union economy, member states should continue to undertake effective and economically and socially sustainable structural reforms in order to establish a virtuous circle in which investment projects contribute to job creation and the reduction of macroeconomic imbalances in the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, committee chairmen, mr gualtieri and other rapporteurs, i think we can say today that we are very satisfied with the result achieved on the nature, financing, operation and governance of the efsi, with objectives which are very important for the european parliament. in particular, as chairman of the committee on culture and education, i would like to thank mr bullmann and the other rapporteurs for having not only confirmed the role of education and training as a growth strategy and a funding commitment within the seven strategic objectives, but also the cultural sector, which had been strangely forgotten. i would remind you, however, that in the context of the so-called digitalisation and new technologies, the issue of e-learning and e-teaching platforms, connected schools and all those projects which really help to make human capital a major strategic resource, and not just structures, must also be considered. i'll just close by saying that it's very important.
in writing. today is an important day for the european parliament: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the strategic investment plan will be able to rely on the financial instrument to implement it from today. it is time to combine growth and the creation of quality jobs that the eu needs in a concrete way. first of all, the countries which have so far paid the highest price for the economic and social crisis. the main objective of the efsi should be growth and the creation of adequate and high-quality jobs. that is the guiding principle of the whole regulation. however, in order to avoid that job creation is hampered, it is necessary that member states promote active labour market policies aimed at ensuring that the skills of the workforce are adaptable to the needs of the sectors with the highest investment potential. the success of the efsi will depend to a large extent on its ability to ensure cohesion with and to strengthen other european financial instruments, such as the structural and investment funds, in practice.
in writing. the efsi was presented to us as the key to reviving the european economy and channelling private capital towards long-term financing of the real economy. but the deceptive propaganda behind the juncker plan hides many concerns, not least about the ability to mobilise 315 billion euros in a few years thanks to a miraculous and unrealistic multiplier effect, and many questionable choices. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. finally, the choice to use public money to cover potential losses on high-risk projects. i believe that europe needs a great plan for public investment to stimulate the real economy and employment, not great works built through public-private partnerships with bad cost-benefit ratios for the community, which too often have fuelled clientelist systems, corruption and mafia infiltration. public investment in research and innovation is the largest long-term contributor to economic growth.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is utterly unsatisfactory because it is based on a misreading of the eurozone crisis, which is essentially attributed to the inability or lack of will on the part of the member states to implement reforms and to respect budgetary rules. the only concern of the report, which we will vote against, is the failure to respect the current framework of economic governance and not the devastating impact that austerity policies and the obsession with budgetary constraints have had on the european economy and citizens. by misdiagnosing, of course, you're mistreating it. the aim of the report is to strengthen and enforce existing rules, without in the least questioning the need for immediate revision of the treaties and rules, austerity policies and absurd and unsustainable budgetary constraints. there is no vital need to increase the flexibility of public investment by exempting it from deficit and debt calculations. the macroeconomic imbalances created by the single currency are not looked at. there is no road map proposing real solutions to break with the failed strategy adopted so far, an impossible compromise between those who insist on saying, against all the evidence, that europe needs more austerity, stricter budgetary constraints, lower wages and less welfare state, and those who in the election campaign proclaimed that they wanted to change course and change the existing rules because they are unsustainable and now have no political strength to honour that commitment. and i say to the socialists, who have a political commitment to their constituents: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. you took millions of votes for change and against austerity and now you support these positions. we have tabled an alternative motion for a resolution to increase fiscal space and productive investment and to enable the states to deal with the problems that we have now, namely unemployment and poverty. if we do not solve these problems, europe will not move forward. the budgetary rules must therefore be revised and above all a clause for withdrawal from the euro area introduced, extending the opt-out granted to certain countries to allow all member states to choose their own currency and thus monetary policy democratically. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. thank you, mr theurer. the great crises have always been resolved with longterm plans, not with six-month or one-year plans, with budgetary constraints of this kind. we must have long-term public planning in order to have the instruments to revive the economy and to get out of this crisis situation. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget, and whether it is not in the interests of the community to take a decision on the budget, and whether it is not in the interests of the community to take a decision on the budget, and whether it is not in the interests of the community to take a decision on the budget, and whether it is not in the interests of the community to take a decision on the budget, and whether it is not in the interests of the community to take a decision on the budget, and whether it is not in the interests of the community to take a decision on the budget, and whether it is not in the interests of the community to take a decision on the budget, and whether it is not in the interests of the community to take a decision on the budget, and whether it is not in the interests of the community to take a decision on the budget, and whether it is not in the interests of the community to take a decision on the budget. as a german colleague, i ask you to respect the restrictions.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the tone of this report is grotesque, and it seems to be responding in a bad way to the cries of pain and suffering which are coming from the greek people who are suffering because of you. it is a report that is a spotlight on the euro and the regulations that support it; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the path of convergence towards rigid parameters enshrined in the maastricht treaty, taken up by the stability and growth pact and reiterated in the fiscal compact is incompatible with the sharing of a common european political project, which is a prerequisite for the single currency. you want to integrate eu law, the esm, the fiscal compact, just to protect against popular reaction the instruments that have devastated europe, leaving only a few countries to compete on the market and relegating others like mine, italy, to the role of stooges, the market of the first ones. but now, with the europe of nations and freedom group, there is the voice of the europe of the peoples.
i'm asking for a blue card. ms. balz, i'd like to ask you a question. can you clarify how you think greece will pay its huge debt in the euro? so it will pay its huge debt in a hard currency, with an industrial internal system completely destroyed by austerity policies?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with this report parliament is making an important and very important contribution to the process of reforming economic and monetary union. there is strong bipartisan support for the commission's communication on flexibility, which is fully in line with the treaties and the stability pact, and it points to an ambitious and credible path to improve the governance of the euro area through strengthened coordination of economic policies, more binding european-level targets defined with co-decision, and at the same time greater recognition of national margins for defining the means of implementing these targets, with the involvement of national parliaments, the indication of a fiscal capacity to encourage convergence and reforms. it is good that these elements have been taken up in the report by the five presidents and it is also important to clarify some institutional elements. the report is very clear: the development of the euro area's governance must take place within the legal framework of the union with the community method. the economic government of the euro is the european commission; the european commission is the european treasury. we are not convinced by this idea of a fiscal board and it is good that it has been made clear that it is only advisory. and the eurozone parliament is the european parliament, which is perfectly equipped to do this and is ready to start negotiating an interinstitutional agreement to strengthen its role in the european semester. this is a clear path, this is a credible path and that is why, because it is credible, it is also ambitious. we therefore call on the european council and the other presidents to take the berès report fully into account and we are prepared to play our part to the full.
i'm asking for a blue card. mr van nieuwenhuizen, thank you for accepting the request for a blue card. frankly, i have a question. you spoke of full acceptance of the rules by the countries: i would like to know what you think about the fact that greece has cut a billion dollars in health spending in the last three years, that infant mortality has gone up by 43%, that malaria has come back, too? what do you think of these devastating social tragedies and consequences that have brought the country to its knees? do you still have the courage to say that the rules must be enforced, at any cost, over the lives and dignity of millions of citizens?
i'm asking for a blue card. mr van nieuwenhuizen, this is not a nuisance, i had not seen my colleague's card. you say that the rules must be respected, but they must also be respected in the case of the netherlands and germany, for example, which break the rules when they show a trade surplus of more than 6%: germany has done it for years, and so has the netherlands. so i want to know if you think the rules apply here.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that we must not create a dichotomy: because when we talk about economic governance, when we talk about fiscal policy and recovery, we talk about one pillar, but we also have the other pillar, which is the pillar of the real economy, of growth, of competitiveness, and we don't necessarily have to put them in contradiction. i believe that when we support the real economy we also help economic and financial recovery, because it is clear that a good economy brings more money into the coffers, makes citizens feel good but also reduces debt, and rebalances imbalances. and so we are talking about flexibility, and i am glad to hear that, commissioner katainen has also spoken a lot about it. i would remind you that flexibility has already been applied by our vice-president tajani, when he succeeded with rehn in putting this flexibility into practice, in relation to the directive on payments for public administration, just as he set the target of 20% by 2020 as regards the gdp generated by the real economy. let's talk about the real economy. we are talking about a europe closer to the citizens. a europe close to the real economy is a europe close to the citizens who are better able to understand themselves.
vice-president of the commission.– mr president, thank you very much for this very lively debate. as you certainly understand, it is not possible to comment on or address all the ideas which were raised during this very good debate. i just want to assert that the commission is fully committed to implementing the current surveillance framework and to further improving it and building a deep and strong architecture for the emu. to do that, we are committed to cooperating with parliament and the council, and we are ready to translate the conclusions that will come from the debates on the five presidents’ report on completing the emu into practical steps. the strategy for jobs and growth presented in the ags remains valid – fiscal responsibility, investment and structural reforms. we have taken important steps towards implementing it, for instance the investment plan and stb flexibility. we now call for all stakeholders, member states and institutions to do their part to implement this strategy. we recall the importance of structural reforms for growth and the responsibility of member states in this regard. honourable members, mr president, i thank you very much for this debate. we have to continue this debate, because the five presidents’ report has just presented a good basis for further work. before adopting any official lines, we need very lively discussions to try to find the best way while showing solidarity and underlining the need for national responsibility.
in writing. the economic dynamics and the complexity of their governance are, as is evident from the text under consideration, being budgeted by each institutional operator. this review cannot ignore the ambitious goals that are not yet on the horizon. the european monetary union is in fact at the centre of a maze: the commission has already taken steps to improve the functioning of the internal market, to strengthen the competitiveness of the european economy and to strengthen the competitiveness of the european economy. the consequences of greece's economic fragility and the risk of a global depression that its default would entail cannot be underestimated now that the ecb has raised emergency liquidity to greek institutions for the umpteenth time and that the debt node and new greek proposals are under consideration at this time. let this be a lesson to us. macroeconomic imbalances must be prevented first by strengthening governance and by addressing, in a holistic and truly european way, the growing divergences between the economies of the euro area.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to start with a premise and an analysis which, although not my own, i fully share. in december i had sent all my colleagues a short but very detailed essay in which a university professor and former italian minister, professor guarino, listed the many reasons and causes of the current crisis in europe. one of these causes is the approval of the stability and growth pact, which in fact imposes absurd budgetary constraints on the member states and is at odds with the growth objectives laid down in the european treaties. the regulation sets the member states a medium-term objective of a budgetary position close to balance or in surplus. in practice, the possibility of borrowing has been removed, which is the only viable option in crisis situations such as the present one. the stability and growth pact, followed by its revision, the six-pack and two-pack, ending with the fiscal compact, denied the member states the possibility of growth and development, with the sole objective of balancing budgets, which by itself is no guarantee of growth and development. this is also in complete contradiction with the european treaties, the ultimate source of eu law, which clearly state that a state may borrow for growth purposes within the limits of the excessive deficit procedure. i would therefore ask the commission how it interprets this apparent contradiction and whether it intends to take any action to resolve this issue. what i do understand, however, is that the rules can be interpreted according to the interests at stake or the political will, because when these european rules were violated by france or germany, one or two eyes were willingly closed, as is still the case with the problem of the german trade surplus being drained out of gdp. the european union is, unfortunately, always weak with the strong and strong with the weak.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i feel more at the bar than in an assembly of the european union. i wanted to say, mr president, despite all this rumour, i wanted to tell commissioner katainen that if he were working in a private company he would have already been fired, given the results achieved by him, by juncker and also, to widen the range a little, by mogherini, even though this has nothing to do with this speech. the united states has developed its economy by trying to impose fewer rules and give more opportunities for development. europe is doing the exact opposite: i think that the commission should be able to take account of the fact that the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we are a political and economic dwarf and we only favour the multinationals. i would say that the only stability pact that europe could make is the stability pact for illegal immigrants. if we were to put 3% on illegal immigrants, we would probably solve part of the problem, because this is a europe that is incapable of solving anything.
in writing. we have been calling for flexibility in the budgetary rules loudly since the beginning of our mandate. it is a subject that is close to the heart of many of us and our governments, because numbers, decimals and percentages in budget regulations really mean welfare, education, pensions. what brussels considers to be a zero point very often means services, assistance and social protection for our citizens. the question today is how to ensure that the so-called 'structural reforms' really represent an opportunity to change and overcome those backward situations which have forced our citizens to pay for decades of wrong policies. we therefore ask the commission what criteria it uses to assess these reforms, not only to avoid the mistakes of the past, but above all to see that 'growth' which has been long awaited, but which at the moment is only the final word of a pact which must bear fruit.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the action plan presented last week by the european commission is a very small step towards greater financial transparency. i believe, however, that transparency alone is not enough to ensure the restoration of fiscal justice in europe. we need concrete action to counter the spillover effects in developing countries that lack the skilled labour and technology to interact with multinationals. we must make tax avoidance schemes illegal so that everyone pays their fair share of tax and, above all, so that the country where the profits are made and the country of taxation coincide. taxation must serve as a tool for growth, so that revenues are reinvested in the real economy. it must not serve as a means of competition between member states. i am thinking, for example, of the luxleaks affair, which is probably known to someone in the upper echelons of the nearby berlaymont. the idea of the ccctb, as well as the efforts to integrate at union level the new oecd actions aimed at countering base erosion and profit shifting, are certainly positive, but i have serious doubts that the member states will accept it. we are faced, for the umpteenth time, with a fundamental problem: how can the free movement of capital within the eu be ensured without common rules on taxation?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's proposal is certainly a positive one. but why did this proposal come? because the luxleaks scandal broke, otherwise we would still be here sleeping and waiting for this kind of common sense proposal to come, because politics today lacks common sense. we have these multinationals that have revenues that are equivalent to the gdp of g20 nations, that can write checks for billions, that are coming in with red carpets inside the institutions, in the ministries, as we are seeing in the taxe committee. we are being welcomed into the basement because we cannot talk about these things, because these companies, with their behaviour, together with the member states, with their irresponsible behaviour, distort competition. small businesses are closing down because of high taxation and we find ourselves in this situation where we are also losing the jobs of the small businesses that are suffering from this. politics must wake up, or else it will be awakened by the citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, good evening commissioner and welcome. this argument, for a country like my own, italy, has very important political characteristics. as we know, the level of taxation, especially for companies, in a developed country like mine has reached unbearable levels. we are talking about peaks of over sixty percent, when the whole of the taxation is considered. the subject of tax competition within the european union is therefore very sensitive for a country like mine. i am convinced, however, that this virtuous tax competition should be preserved, provided that there is effective transparency, that is, that the correct market rules are fully respected. let me give you an example. i think that compensatory phenomena can be used, for example. a useful example: an italian entrepreneur legitimately decides to have an operating company in bulgaria, because he will have tax advantages. well, it seems to me that this cannot be prevented. however, i think it is appropriate to assume, for example, that the tax benefits thus obtained are partly reinvested by that italian entrepreneur in his country of origin. this would be a good way of leaving the advantage that bulgaria gets through a different tax regime from that of italy, without at the same time totally taking value away from the country of origin. these are systems that can be hypothesized. so my suggestion is a quid pluris of fantasy also in creating the conditions for the future of this fiscal sovereignty within the union. or, through the tax credit, to solve the problem of the risk of double taxation or double non-taxation. in short, we are faced with those small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who respect the law, make sacrifices, generate value, but cannot afford the kind of tax tourism that has sometimes been allowed to some and that small entrepreneurs must eventually compensate by continuing to pay all the taxes, as they have always done.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the ten-t project for a new tunnel on the turin-lyon line is useless: it destroys nature, it doesn't create jobs, it increases public debt and it creates opportunities for the mafia. twenty-six years of popular opposition have proved this. it is false to say that there is a missing link. there is already a large-scale tunnel and a modernised and functioning railway line which allows seven times more freight to pass under the alps than is the case today and which is part of the mediterranean freight corridor number 6, rail freight corridor 6. on 26 february 2015, italy and france sent the european commission a request for funding for this project. we would point out that the costs of the tunnel have been presented in such a way as to appear equivalent to the costs of other tunnels built in switzerland, but instead there are inconsistencies in the billions of euros and there is a difference of 5 times between the costs per kilometer between the italian and the french side. the certification of costs should be carried out by a third party, whereas we detect a conflict of interest between telt and gdf suez, the company responsible for the certification. my colleagues from the five star movement, the greens and the gue have asked commissioner bulc to reject the request for funding, also because of these irregularities. we're waiting for a response.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today the most important newspapers of the world are reporting on new revelations by wikileaks, which reveal that three presidents of the french republic have been intercepted by the american nsa. what is europe waiting for, to make its voice heard by the americans, to make it clear once and for all whether we are being intercepted? let the european parliament act! i would also appeal to the commission to make its views known on this very sensitive subject which concerns not only privacy but also security and, i would say, even more generally, relations between europe and the united states. i would also like to recall that in april a council of europe resolution called for the establishment of a multilateral intelligence code. well, i think it's about time we did, and we moved from good intentions to action. we must regulate seriously and above all we must give a clear answer. europe must give a clear answer: we don't want to be intercepted by the americans.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion because i believe that mr zarianopoulos's actions have nothing to do with his position as a member of the european parliament and therefore i believe that his immunity should be waived.
in writing. - i abstained. the request for revocation relates to an incident involving an attempted break-in at the premises of a greek tv station in order to interrupt the broadcast of the news and to read out a press release.
in writing. ‒ mep sotirios zarianopoulos is accused of illegally breaking into the premises of the greek public broadcaster ert-3 on 4 march 2010 to read a press release. he interrupted the noon news with threats of physical violence. the alleged offence is linked to an action by the greek trade union pame and took place before the honourable member's election, factors which clearly demonstrate the absence of any link with the office currently held by the honourable member. i therefore voted to waive immunity so that justice can be served.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for waiver of the immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos. in 2014, the president informed, pursuant to rule 9 (1), that he had received a letter from the deputy prosecutor of the supreme court of greece requesting the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr zarianopoulos. the committee has examined the documentation and considered that it should ask the ep to decide to waive the immunity, considering that the allegations clearly have no connection with mr zarianopoulos's office as an mep. at the time of the events mr zarianopoulos, using threats of physical violence, was illegally breaking into the premises of the greek public television station ert. - 3 interrupting the noon news and reading a statement. furthermore, there is no reason to suppose that a fumus persecutionis exists.
in writing. ‒ considering that the events leading to the request by the greek government to waive the parliamentary immunity of mr zarianopoulos predate his election as an mep and have nothing to do with his current office, i have decided to vote in favour of this request.
in writing. ‒ sotirios zarianopoulos is accused of having, using threats of physical violence, illegally broken into the premises of the greek public television station ert-3 on 4 march 2010 to interrupt the noon news and read a statement. the alleged offence has no connection with the position of sotirios zarianopoulos as a member of the european parliament, as the alleged offence is linked to an action by the greek trade union pame and sotirios zarianopoulos was not a member of the european parliament at the time of the events. under article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, an opinion expressed in the exercise of the mandate of a member of the european parliament is defined as a subjective assessment having a direct and obvious link with the exercise of parliamentary functions, but the alleged actions of sotirios zarianopoulos do not fall within this definition as the criminal proceedings do not concern any opinion or vote expressed in the exercise of the mandate of a member of the european parliament. there is no reason to assume that the proceedings are based on the intention to prejudice the political activity of the member (fumus persecutionis), also considering that the proceedings were initiated several years before the member's term of office began. for these reasons i voted in favour of the waiver of immunity.
in writing. i have expressed my opposition to the request for waiver of the immunity of mr sotirios zarianopoulos because i believe that parliamentary immunity is not a personal privilege of a member but a guarantee of the independence of parliament and its members as a super partes institution. i remain convinced that in these cases a guarantor's line must be followed, and i shall therefore continue to vote against this type of report in defence of the institutional role conferred by this parliament.
in writing. ‒ on 4 march 2010, mr sotirios zarianopoulos was charged with illegally breaking into the premises of the greek public television station ert-3, using threats of physical violence and interrupting the noon news to read a personal statement. in the light of the foregoing, i have supported mrs ferrara's request to waive her immunity, since the alleged offence has no connection with her position as a member of the european parliament. moreover, there is no reason to assume that the proceedings are based on the intention to prejudice the political activity of the member (fumus persecutionis), as they were initiated several years before the beginning of the european mandate.
in writing. ‒ on the question of the waiver of mr zarianopoulos' immunity, i agree with the conclusion reached by the committee on legal affairs. since the legal proceedings instituted against my colleague by the greek court predate the beginning of his term as a member of the european parliament, his immunity does not exist.
in writing. ‒ the alleged offence for which the waiver of the immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos is sought does not relate to the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament but to facts related to an action of the greek trade union pame to which he belonged when he was not yet a member of the european parliament. in the absence of a fumus persecutionis, the request for revocation is perfectly valid as indicated by the legislation of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion because i believe that mr voigt's conduct has nothing to do with his position as a member of the european parliament and therefore i believe that his immunity should be waived.
in writing. - abstention from the vote. the request for revocation relates to attacks deemed offensive and published by the magazine of the national democratic party of which voigt was president and referring to the football world cup.
in writing. ‒ in this case, in voting on the request for waiver of immunity, i decided to follow the rapporteur's opinion.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the request to waive the immunity of udo voigt. in 2014, the president informed, pursuant to rule 9 (1), that he had received a letter from the president of the berlin court of appeal requesting the waiver of mr voigt's parliamentary immunity. the committee considered that the commission should be asked to take a decision on the waiver of immunity, as the allegations clearly had no connection with mr voigt's membership of the ep. at the time, mr voigt was accused of incitement and collective insults in a publication published by the national democratic party (npd) at the time of the 2006 fifa world cup, for which he was responsible as party chairman. furthermore, there is no reason to suppose that a fumus persecutionis exists.
in writing. ‒ in view of the fact that the immunity provided for in article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union is not applicable to the present case, i have decided to vote in favour of this request for revocation.
in writing. ‒ the president of the berlin court of appeal has submitted a request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of udo voigt. pursuant to article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament shall enjoy in their national territory the immunities accorded to members of their national parliaments. udo voigt is accused of incitement and collective insults launched in a publication published by the national democratic party, at the time of the 2006 fifa world cup. the charges are clearly unrelated to udo voigt's position as a member of the european parliament and are attributable to his position as president of the national democratic party. in the absence of any further comments, recitals (65) to (68) of the provisional regulation are confirmed. the proceedings cannot be suspected of being an attempt to obstruct the parliamentary activities of mr voigt (fumus persecutionis), since they were initiated some years before he took up his seat in the ep. for all these reasons i voted in favour of the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ mr udo voigt is accused of incitement and collective insults launched in a publication published by the national democratic party at the time of the 2006 fifa world cup, for which he was responsible as party president. since the alleged offence has no connection with udo voigt's position as a member of the european parliament, i have decided to support the request for waiver of immunity. moreover, there is no reason to assume that the proceedings are based on the intention to prejudice the political activity of the member (fumus persecutionis), since they were initiated some years before he took up his seat in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ as i have already said on several occasions in similar cases, i am in favour of not applying immunity in the case of proceedings or events which took place before the election of a member of parliament to the european parliament. i therefore cannot but agree with the final result of the vote.
in writing. ‒ the legal rules of the european parliament must also be applied in the case of udo voigt. immunity is normally waived where the offence falls within the scope of article 9 of the protocol provided that there is no fumus persecutionis, i.e. a sufficiently serious and specific suspicion that the case is being brought before a court with the intention of politically harming the member concerned. the hearing in the legal affairs committee did not reveal any fumus persecutionis, since the events took place before voigt was a member of the european parliament. the alleged offence and subsequent legal action have nothing to do with voigt's tenure as a member of the european parliament. the unanimous vote in the legal affairs committee also shows this, hence my vote in favour of the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ while the objectives behind the creation of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) are shared, i cannot dismiss my reservations about the actual functioning and impact of this instrument. i believe that this plan is based on audacious assumptions, and that in theory it should generate a leverage effect of up to 1 500%, and that it is using funds that are in fact subtracted from those already allocated to horizon 2020. for all these reasons i did not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation on the european fund for strategic investments, which we are voting on today, is one of the key moments of this parliamentary term. this is an important step, which i support and which points out the ambitious path to follow in order to restore confidence in the potential of the european economy and its policies. the capacity to deliver urgent action and the sharing of guarantees between member states and the european investment bank will help to mobilise the investments needed to modernise europe and its infrastructure and to stimulate private investors' participation. i think it is important that the fund should make a specific commitment of 75 billion for the benefit of small and mediumsized enterprises. the role played by parliament in drawing up the draft is also fundamental, as it succeeded in strengthening the flexibility clauses for the contribution of the member states and the additional nature of the projects to be approved. the action we will take in implementing the plan shows the intra-eu concertation needed to implement projects that must respond to the important challenges we face.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the union, after having focused for a long time on austerity, must now act to restore growth to our continent and i am convinced that the european fund for strategic investments is a key instrument to achieve this goal.
in writing. ‒ the activation of the european fund for strategic investments is a victory not only for us progressives but for all citizens who want a europe that is more attentive to the needs of workers, entrepreneurs and local people and who want to work to improve it. the planned investment plan focuses on quality as well as quantity: it not only supports our economy, but also helps to move it in a more sustainable direction. by focusing more on investments in renewable energy sources, energy efficiency, smart grids, circular economy, resource efficiency, it is possible to stimulate growth and jobs towards a new european green economy. the efsi alone is not enough, but it is a very useful tool to overcome this crisis, going beyond the dogmatism of austerity and austerity. the european fund can look to sustainable and smart development, while safeguarding the importance of the objectives of horizon 2020, the european programme for research and innovation, and the connecting europe facility, the european programme for infrastructure and the digital agenda, which should be strengthened and re-financed in the coming years.
in writing. - i voted against the measure. the efsi is presented as functional to austerity and wage deflation. europe needs investment and a revival.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). the economic crisis and the excessive budgetary constraints imposed by the european union on the member states have caused a significant drop in investment in europe. this is slowing down the economic recovery, negatively affecting job creation, long-term growth prospects and competitiveness. the european union must therefore act decisively to break the vicious circle of underinvestment and to remedy the growing disparities between regions. for all these reasons i voted in favour of the report on the european investment fund, which aims to tackle the endemic lack of investment by putting it back at the centre of the union's policies to increase the competitiveness of the member states. in order to put in place a durable growth mechanism that also leads to the creation of new jobs, effective and economically and socially sustainable structural reforms by member states, as well as the promotion of initiatives such as training programmes and active labour market policies, remain necessary.
in writing. ‒ this agreement will be presented by the supporters of the juncker commission as a success that can boost the economy, development and employment in europe, also because the investments of this programme will not be included in the calculation for the deficit/gdp ratio of the stability and growth pact. it is therefore possible to see this measure as a tacit admission of the untenability of the rules of the pact, and then one should take note of it and radically change them, not granting this petty content. beyond the questionable procedural issues outlined, we believe that there are still a number of concerns, ranging from the fact that it is open to companies with up to 3 000 employees (not smes) to the fact that priority will be given to large infrastructure and energy projects that cannot properly be defined as sustainable, and this is precisely the direction in which the main projects also presented by italy are heading. the main focus on private investment is also very risky, because it is clear that in the event of bankruptcy the guarantees will serve to cover their losses in the first place, and there is a risk of bankruptcy situations similar to those experienced through the project bond initiative, of which the efsi actually follows the modalities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). the global economic and financial crisis has had a profound impact on investment in europe, with a decrease of around 15% compared to 2007, amounting to around eur 430 billion. in some eu countries, including italy, the decline was more pronounced. to respond to this problem in a timely manner, the juncker plan provided for the establishment of the efsi. the fund will be financed through an eu guarantee of eur 16 billion and eur 5 billion of direct eib financing and, thanks to the expected multiplier effect, will be able to mobilise eur 315 billion of investments, including eur 75 billion for smes. the investment will be concentrated in a few key areas of the european economy (infrastructure, energy, research). the management of the fund will be carried out by a number of bodies (the steering committee, the investment committee) and technical advice will be provided by a european investment advisory hub. finally, a reserve list of investment projects is created in order to provide investors with transparent information on potential projects to benefit from the fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that the european fund for strategic investments is an important and fundamental step towards the revival of the european economy. the european union has been struggling to attract new investment for too long because of the economic and financial crisis, and this fund aims to make it more attractive to invest in europe by improving its infrastructure and economic competitiveness, with an eye to the regions that have been most affected by the crisis. i believe that trying to mobilise eur 315 billion is an ambitious but necessary target to encourage both public and private investment and that, thanks to the eu guarantee fund and the strategic partnership with the european investment bank, this target can be achieved. the main aim is to influence the real economy by reducing unemployment, promoting economically viable investment projects and reducing regional disparities. this release of liquidity will have to be accompanied by major structural reforms by the member states which will have to be economically and socially sustainable. for all these reasons i have decided to vote in favour, because i believe that we have a duty to do everything possible to stimulate economic growth and to give new confidence to european businessmen and workers.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that europe is still suffering from a lack of investment, caused both by the negative economic and financial situation and by the budgetary constraints imposed on the member states. in this context, the european fund for strategic investments represents an important opportunity to stimulate economic recovery and to increase the competitiveness of european enterprises. this is necessary not only to foster future, sustainable and smart growth, but also to ensure that the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy become achievable. in the light of these considerations, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ this is the 'juncker plan' promised and promoted by the new commission to revive the european economy. in committee, the m5s had proposed an alternative vision to the original text, through some 70 amendments, ranging from a true and 'limited' definition of smes, to a guarantee cover to be found for example within the pre-accession ipa funds, to finally arrive at binding criteria for the selection of truly sustainable projects and better and more transparent governance. i voted against this report because, apart from perhaps this last point, on which some progress has been made, the rest has remained highly unsatisfactory for the m5s, the result of an armored agreement between the popular party and the socialists who have not tried to protect this text in every respect without wanting substantial changes. we therefore voted against both the text and the way in which this whole process has been handled.
in writing. ‒ today we give the green light to an initiative which, for the time being, at least in its intentions, marks a reversal of the trend towards a europe of austerity and rigor which we have never loved, but which has, above all, proved inadequate to meet the challenges of the crisis, and has only aggravated its social and economic consequences. the plan is not a panacea, it is not a magic bullet that can alone reignite the engines of growth and it will never be sufficient unless it is implemented in a synergistic and complementary way with the other resources that the union makes available to the states. it is, however, of great symbolic value, as well as economic. parliament has considerably improved the initial proposal and, despite general scepticism, has helped to dismiss a strengthened text, starting with the declaration on the exclusion of all contributions paid by the states from the deficit calculation. the s&d group has always fought for the introduction of flexibility mechanisms to encourage investment. now we need to do more, by really involving local authorities in the design of efsi projects, by reconsidering the top-down approach, to bring it closer to the needs and requirements of the territories and the citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted strongly in favour of the agreement reached with the council on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), the so-called 'juncker plan'. the adoption of this new instrument is a concrete and significant response to the need to reverse the course of european economic governance and confirms the commitments made a few months ago by the european institutions under the italian presidency, thanks to the action of our government. a smart use of flexibility and a renewed focus on investment and growth policies have now entered the european political agenda. the european parliament has made an important contribution in recent months to the definition of an instrument which is effective, transparent and democratic, and has also found an excellent compromise on the origin of the funding for the juncker plan. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance and the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi) and the european investment bank (eib).
in writing. ‒ the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european fund for strategic investments is undoubtedly one of the most important measures of this year's legislature and has been one of the commission's priorities. the main objective of this fund is to overcome the investment gap, which is particularly acute for those member states most affected by the economic crisis. in addition, in order to strengthen confidence in the union, it is necessary to encourage above all those investments which lead to an increase in jobs. particular attention was paid to financing for the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises and to encouraging the creation of start-ups and social and solidarity economy enterprises. finally, it was decided to reduce regional disparities in order to encourage competitiveness and innovation, while supporting measures for the energy-efficient transition towards a sustainable circular economy. i therefore believe that the regulation is going in the direction we want: sustainable and smart growth that takes account of the social dimension, achieving the europe 2020 objectives.
in writing. ‒ the efsi is an instrument which, in its general intentions, finds our support, but, in analysing it and understanding its real scope, it is not based on own funds (but removes them from horizon in particular); member states, even if they participate in the efsi with their own contributions, are completely excluded from the governance of the efsi, etc. we therefore have to vote against the text.
in writing. ‒ after months of hard work, the european fund for strategic investments is finally becoming a reality. it is a tool which represents a turning point in terms of european economic cohesion at social and territorial level. today we all hope that the efsi can really become the keystone to finally enable all the peoples of europe to emerge from this endless and devastating crisis which still oppresses our economies. we hope that the member states will now be able to live up to the challenge and make the most of the potential of this innovative instrument.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the european fund for strategic investments is a sign of a europe changing direction. europe certainly didn't have much of a choice: the failure of austerity policies has been attested to by the facts, by dramatic levels of unemployment, by the closure of thousands of businesses, by the collapse of consumption, by the deterioration of the social state and, last but not least, by the growth of anti-democratic forces in many countries. europe needs to look ahead, but above all to do things today. we now have a framework that allows us to make some moves to revive the economy, but above all to increase the prosperity of our territories and our citizens. the juncker plan, the flexibility communication and the structural funds - these three instruments together do not allow us to fail. the real challenge is to ensure that the tools available are used efficiently. i therefore hope for a strong and fruitful synergy between the resources of cohesion policy and those of the efsi.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr fernandes and mr bullmann on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). the juncker plan, strongly supported by the epp, is the main vehicle for mobilising at least €315 billion of additional investment in the real economy over the next three years. it will finance projects with a higher risk profile, so as to maximise the impact of public spending and unlock private investment. the fund will be set up within the european investment bank (eib), with which the commission will work in a strategic partnership. i am sure that it will be a driver of jobs and opportunities, making the european economy competitive, innovative and circular, without neglecting fundamental aspects such as sustainable development and green growth.
in writing. ‒ the strategic investment plan, efsi, devised by the juncker commission, aims to shift the union's policies from austerity to growth by focusing on investment. the main objective is therefore to promote and facilitate access to finance in member states and regions with high levels of unemployment. the efsi is particularly pleased with my opinion because it promises to restore confidence at european level by stimulating a multiplier effect by providing liquidity to the market, which will generate a total of eur 315 billion in investment. these investments will, over the next three years, have to maximise the impact of public resources and unlock private investment to boost the real economy without generating new public debt. the proposed measures, if well implemented, could even exceed expectations by adding between eur 330 and eur 410 billion to european gdp over the next three years and create 1 million 300 thousand new jobs.
in writing. ‒ in europe, the lack of investment, triggered by the recent economic and financial crisis, has ended up creating a dangerous downward spiral of reduced spending, rising unemployment and loss of confidence. our group has already asked president juncker to take further steps in this direction, and we are therefore pleased with the success of this new fund, which will be set up in close partnership with the eib and which, thanks to the commitment of the ep, will come into force in the coming months in order to boost demand and confidence among private investors. by unlocking new investment, the efsi can become the driving force behind innovative projects that create new jobs and opportunities. we believe that it will not only help to boost the union's economy, but also to transform it into a resilient, innovative, inclusive, low-carbon economy. we will therefore support truly transformative services and infrastructure, able to cope with 'new' challenges such as our loss of competitiveness, dangerous climate change, our dependence on scarce and critical natural resources from third countries and the volatility and unpredictability of energy and resource prices.
in writing. ‒ the economic and financial crisis has caused a decline in investment in the union, which is down by around 15% from its peak in 2007. the eu's investment deficit is mainly due to budgetary constraints imposed on member states and stagnant growth, which in turn create uncertainty in markets about the future of the economy. this shortfall, which has been particularly acute in the member states most affected by the crisis, is slowing down the economic recovery and has a negative impact on job creation, long-term growth prospects and competitiveness, potentially hindering the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy objectives. the efsi should be used to support the development of the union's financial markets and to support the development of the union's financial markets. the strategy is based on three main pillars: the mobilisation of funds for investment, the ability of investment to reach the real economy and the improvement of the investment environment in the union. in the light of the foregoing, i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european fund for strategic investments because i believe that parliament has succeeded in achieving important compromise results in this negotiation with the commission, which will give new impetus to the european economy through investment and the creation of new quality jobs and lead to greater economic, social and territorial cohesion. this programme will facilitate investments in the territory, which will be assessed in terms of their real effectiveness and with due regard to the level of social and territorial cohesion they bring. investment projects will have to be in line with the union's objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the added value of the investments and their actual additionality will have to be demonstrated. the financing will be tailored to the specificities of each country and sector, taking into account market conditions. the prices applicable to efsi operations shall stimulate additional investment in order to effectively prevent and counter problems related to financial fragmentation, market failures and sub-optimal investment levels. this ambitious plan is a sign of a europe that is starting to invest again to get out of the austerity trap.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the parliament's industry committee, i particularly appreciate the eu's commitment (even in this particular period of crisis) to focus its efforts and energies on strategic investments for the union. i am therefore in favour of supporting parliament's first reading position, as i believe that this regulation could unblock the investment situation in many member states (such as my own) and boost employment and european industrial leadership.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, due to the severe economic crisis, there has been no significant investment in the european union. as a result, this lack of investment has slowed down competitiveness, growth and employment in the eu. i am optimistic about the european commission's proposal for a european fund for strategic investments (efsi), which i voted in favour of. its purpose is to stimulate economic activity in the eu by bringing together public and private partners in the use of resources and projects. it is of course important to emphasize that, in the selection of projects, priority must be given to those which have a clear european value, are sustainable and can add value in boosting growth.
in writing. ‒ in line with the ppe group and the majority of the european parliament, i voted in favour of the report by mr fernandes and mr bullmann. the subject of the proposed regulation is one of the most interesting new developments proposed by the new juncker commission. the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), the heart of the juncker investment plan, is planning to leverage private investment to reach a total investment of €315 billion over three years. this will unlock new investment that can create jobs and growth, thus boosting the union's economy. however, as a member of the tran and itre committees, i note that there will be an inevitable reduction in investment in certain specific sectors which are by their nature less attractive to private investors. in fact, although investments in railways and inland waterways bring important socio-economic and environmental benefits, they are less profitable and require a loss-making contribution to be realised. coordination is therefore needed to ensure that these high-level european projects can be reintroduced through the juncker plan.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that an agreement was reached quickly between the european parliament and the council on the new european fund for strategic investments (efsi). since 2007, investment in smes has fallen by 15% across the eu. to counter this negative trend and to stimulate growth, employment and competitiveness, the efsi has been provided with resources from the european budget and the european investment bank amounting to 21 billion. these funds are expected to generate a leverage effect of eur 315 billion between 2015 and 2017. the main objective of the efsi should be to help overcome the difficulties in financing and implementing investments in strategic areas such as sustainable urban mobility, energy infrastructure, digital technologies, research, education and e-health. despite optimistic expectations, however, we cannot hope that this measure alone will be enough to solve the eu's structural and economic problems. i hope that this instrument will help to encourage new investment in the eu, but i hope that it will also be accompanied by proposals for deeper and more far-reaching reform of the european economic system.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the european fund for strategic investments is certainly good news for europe. the adoption of this initiative is a key step in the process of reviving the economy and changing our economic strategies, which, with this text, are giving a new impetus to a macroeconomic strategy for development and growth. i welcome the substantial improvements introduced by parliament, particularly as regards governance, the setting of objectives for the investment guidelines, the evaluation system, the scoreboard. i would also stress that this fund will make it possible to invest additional resources to help overcome market failures, financial fragmentation, alongside the traditional instruments of support for research, innovation and energy efficiency. i hope that this fund will also help to strengthen the capacity of public and private investment, especially in the geographical areas with the greatest difficulties.
in writing. during the plenary debate, mr weber said that voting against the juncker fund was not a good idea. i wonder, then, whether it is sensible to vote for a fund which takes billions from research to finance large-scale projects or unsustainable infrastructure such as gas gasification plants and gas storage facilities. whether it is prudent to focus on short-term consumer finance to find solutions for the real economy; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eib's operations are not affected by the financial crisis. the experience of recent years has shown that project financing guarantees profits to private individuals and lobbyists, while the risks are passed on to the public guarantee. there are many examples, starting with my own region, lombardy, which is full of financial black holes, as the brebemi and teem projects show. the efsi is thus another instrument that will enable private investors to maximise profits at the expense of the community by financing projects with little added value and a high risk of exposure to mafia infiltration and subcontracting corruption. that is why the five star movement has had the good sense to vote against this initiative.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulation because i believe that the efsi represents the first concrete step towards moving from the europe of austerity to the europe of growth and jobs. the text of the trilogue is much stronger than the commission's initial proposal. we must now work to ensure that the fund finances projects which are high risk, stimulate growth and deal in particular with new forms of economy.
in writing. ‒ while more could be done, the juncker plan is certainly a big step forward towards a europe that decides once and for all to turn its back on austerity and look confidently to a future of growth and investment. this major investment plan of 315 billion is the best answer we could give to all the eurosceptics who continue to discredit the work of this parliament. but now we must ensure that this plan does not become a means to failure like the youth guarantee, which failed to deliver the results we expected. i am proud of the work done by the s&d group, which has ensured that national contributions to the efsi, but also to the national promotional banks and national platforms linked to the fund, are considered one-off measures with no consequences for the fiscal position of the countries. it also secured a governance structure for the fund that ensures greater independence from the eib and greater democratic scrutiny, as well as a system of community financing of the efsi that reduces by €1 billion the funds withdrawn from the already pro-growth and innovation and infrastructure programmes horizon 2020 and cef, using instead the margins allowed by the eu budget.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the deprez report. the european globalisation adjustment fund is a practical and indispensable instrument for supporting businesses and workers affected by the crisis; the report we are voting on is balanced and also offers suggestions for improving its operation, but much remains to be done.
in writing. ‒ i decided to support this report by voting in favour of it because i believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund is a very important instrument to counter the effects of the crisis and that the commission and the member states must work to make it as efficient as possible.
in writing. - i voted yes. the report also contains actionable guidance on how to improve the functioning of the egf.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management (application egf/2015/000 ta technical assistance at the initiative of the commission). the commission proposal concerns the mobilisation of resources to cover technical assistance at the initiative of the commission, with the aim of financing monitoring and information, in creating a knowledge base/interface and in providing advice to member states in relation to the use, continuity and evaluation of the egf. i therefore voted in favour of this measure, which i hope will help to increase awareness of this instrument among italian companies and national and local institutions.
in writing. ‒ i am generally in favour of mobilising the egf, although i am aware that it is certainly not the instrument that can best help workers who are victims of company crises. in this case, however, it is not a question of mobilising funds to support specific actions, but of information and technical assistance. for these priorities, i think the european commission could use other budget lines and resources already available and concentrate the entire amount of the egf towards cases of concrete business crises and support for workers. because of these perplexities i have preferred to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is certainly one of the main and most important instruments of solidarity with workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the economic crisis. in this first year of parliamentary activity, the requests from the member states for access to the fund have already been numerous, a clear sign of the economic difficulties facing enterprises. there is no doubt that the european commission has been faced with an increasing number of requests and there is no doubt that the procedures should be simplified and standardised to simplify the requests so that they can be dealt with quickly. i voted in favour of the commission's request for an increase in the budget to also support the member states in preparing the requests to respond more rapidly to the needs of the workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the fund was set up to provide support for workers affected by the consequences of major changes in trade. the fund may not exceed the ceiling of eur 150 million under the provisions of regulations (eu) no 1311/2013 and (eu) no 1309/2013. the european commission is requesting the mobilisation of eur 630 000 to cover technical assistance for monitoring, data collection and administrative and technical support of the fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to improve technically the quality of support offered to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the adoption of this measure will enable eur 630 000 to be mobilised to support the fund's technical assistance, which consists of financing monitoring and information, i.e. collecting data on applications received, contributions paid and measures proposed and implemented, to create a common knowledge base which can lead to the adoption of standardised procedures for applications for assistance and management of the egf and to provide advice to member states in relation to the use, continuity and evaluation of the fund. if these aspects are strengthened successfully, it will be possible to manage the union's financial support to redundant workers in a dynamic manner and to make it available as quickly and efficiently as possible, so as to be able to assist them successfully in their reintegration into the labour market. it will be of key importance to enhance networking and exchange of information related to the egf, so as to be able to assess the impact of support provided under this fund.
in writing. ‒ the european union has already for several years put in place the legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to all those workers who have unfortunately been suffering for years from the negative consequences of the changes in the structure of world trade. in voting in favour of mr deprez's report, i wanted to express my appreciation for the commission's proposal of 15 april to mobilise eur 630 000 from the fund to cover technical assistance, i.e. the financing of certain measures such as monitoring and information and the creation of a knowledge base and a consultancy activity for the member states on the use, application and evaluation of the benefits/effects of the egf. i would like to stress that access to the egf should also apply to all those regions with a high rate of youth unemployment, especially to all those young people up to 25 years of age who are unemployed, who are not in education or training.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the egf, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management. the allocation to the european commission of a contribution of eur 630 000 corresponds to the provisions of articles 11 and 12 of the egf regulation. the commission's funding of technical assistance activities benefits the member states benefiting from the fund, which receive significant support in managing requests, workers, who can find the necessary information more easily, and the fund itself, whose visibility is increased. through this contribution, the commission will carry out monitoring and data collection activities concerning the fund, improve the fund's website by making it available in all eu languages and work on a major technological simplification of procedures that will make it possible to speed up and make more accessible requests for assistance from the fund. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr deprez on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. under the latter, it was proposed to allocate eur 630 000 as technical cover, on the initiative of the commission. this coverage will be useful for financing monitoring and information and for providing advice to member states, with continuity in the evaluation of their projects.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal concerns the mobilisation of eur 630 000 for technical assistance in financing monitoring and information and in providing advice to member states in relation to the use and evaluation of the egf. as the european parliament has often stressed the need for greater visibility of the european globalisation adjustment fund as an instrument of union solidarity in the face of the worsening world economy, i felt it was necessary to approve the commission's proposal.
in writing. ‒ the eu has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of changes in the structure of world trade or the global economic and financial crisis, and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market. the ep has always stressed the need for greater visibility of the fund as a solidarity instrument for redundant workers. we are convinced of the need to strengthen contacts between all those involved in egf applications, in particular the social partners and the regional and local stakeholders, in order to create all possible synergies. in regions with a high rate of youth unemployment, access to egf support should be extended to young people up to 25 years of age who are unemployed and outside all stages of education and training. we therefore welcome the commission's proposal to mobilise eur 630 000 to cover all technical assistance initiatives needed to improve information, monitoring and data collection. the egf website will need to be updated regularly and any new content translated into all eu languages, in order to help increase the visibility of its activities.
in writing. ‒ on 15 april 2015, the european commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the proposal is to mobilise eur 630 000 from the fund to cover technical assistance, i.e. to finance monitoring and information, to create a knowledge base/interface and to advise member states on the use, continuity and evaluation of the egf. as the egf was set up to provide additional support to workers who are affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade and as the european parliament has often stressed the need for greater visibility of the fund as an instrument of union solidarity towards such workers, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). i believe it is essential to provide support for redundant workers and selfemployed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation, as a result of the continuing global economic and financial crisis, in order to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market. since it started its activities in 2007, the egf has proved to be an effective and efficient tool for people who have lost their jobs. it is a concrete expression of european solidarity and a practical tool to help people recover from large-scale redundancies. in particular, the egf allows member states to support targeted measures adapted to the circumstances of the workers concerned. since its inception it has helped and continues to help some 91 000 redundant workers by providing them with assistance in training, finding a new job or other forms of support. it is necessary to ensure that the egf continues to play a crucial role in the fight against unemployment.
in writing. ‒ on the question of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund, since it was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade, i can only agree with the initiative proposed by my colleagues and hope that it is an important breakthrough for assisting workers in re-entering the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund provides additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. as you can see, it has been of great use in the last period. i therefore support and voted in favour of the proposal to mobilise eur 630 000 from the fund to cover technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. the objective of the technical assistance is to finance monitoring and information and to provide advice to member states in relation to the use, continuity and evaluation of the egf. the scope of the fund is also important, since it is intended to finance the following activities: monitoring and collection of data, information and the egf website, the creation of a knowledge base to develop standardised procedures for applications for assistance and the management of the egf, administrative and technical support and the establishment of networks between member states.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) provides support for people who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation, such as the closure of a company or the relocation of production to a country outside the eu, or as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. the egf may finance up to 60% of the cost of projects to help redundant workers find other employment or start their own business. for all these reasons i have decided to vote in favour of the mobilisation of eur 630 000 to cover the fund's technical assistance. the objective of the technical assistance is to finance monitoring and information, to create a knowledge base/interface and to provide advice to member states in relation to the use, continuity and evaluation of the egf.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe it contains some shared ideas on how to improve the functioning of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to allow the european commission to cover the technical and administrative assistance expenditure for the year 2015 relating to the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf/2015/000 ta 2015) in the amount of eur 630 000. these costs correspond to approximately 0,39% of the maximum annual budget available for the egf. this appropriation is intended to cover the costs of monitoring and data collection, the management of the website, the establishment of standardised procedures for the management of the fund, the organisation of networks between member states and the development of new evaluation systems. i hope that these funds will be used rationally and efficiently for the purposes for which they were intended.
in writing. ‒ the bères report is totally uncritical and biased in its analysis of european economic governance. the text too often emphasizes that the failure of the present system is due to the inability of the states to apply european rules rather than to the inefficiency of the same. this is yet another short-sighted and biased interpretation of a situation which is causing serious suffering for our businesses and our citizens. for all these reasons i voted against the measure.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the report on 'review of the economic governance framework: budget and challenges', which i support, comes at a crucial moment, following the publication of the report of the five presidents, in view of the european council meeting in the next two days, and is in the context of the debate on the european fund for strategic investments. the economic crisis, the reduction in investment in the eu, the current levels of unemployment and growth show the limits and difficulties of the current economic and monetary union and the need to return to discussing it with appropriate instruments. the current state of economic governance suffers excessively from the accompanying bureaucratic complexities, which also undermine its effectiveness in terms of transparency and democracy. it is therefore right that parliament should play an active role in this process. as commissioner katainen also stressed, we need a system that can prevent future crises and ensure a higher level of stability for the euro area and europe. i would add, however, that stability should not be our goal but the precondition for finally arriving at forward-looking economic and budgetary policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i share its conclusions. in particular, i believe that the eu's economic governance framework must be completed as soon as possible and that a greater level of democracy must be guaranteed.
in writing. - i voted against it. the text makes excessive excuses for the failure of the instruments which were supposed to be for development and growth, but which have not achieved any objective. the results of european policies are in plain sight: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat unemployment.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the audit of the economic governance framework: budget and challenges. the report highlighted that, despite progress in correcting macroeconomic imbalances in europe and improving the current economic situation of weak growth and high unemployment, member states still need to implement structural reforms and work to boost investment with the aim of restoring the union's competitiveness. the call for greater economic coordination, which considers the euro area as a whole, is also important: only through greater coherence and organisation at european level can the effectiveness of the economic governance framework be truly improved and a consistent and fair implementation of the framework in all member states be ensured, as well as the different economic and fiscal situations of the member states be addressed on a level playing field.
in writing. ‒ since the report supported by the socialist-people's group in no way reflects our reading of the situation and is aimed at further strengthening a wrong and counterproductive governance framework, we have tabled an alternative motion for a resolution on behalf of the efdd group.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to revise the economic governance framework. the document aims to analyse the effectiveness of the regulatory framework under the tfeu, in particular the economic policies and the results achieved by the eu member states. more than seven years after the start of the crisis, the euro has been saved by measures such as the revision of the stability and growth pact (sgp), the budgetary pact, the establishment of the european stability mechanism (esm), banking union and the leading role of the european central bank (ecb). however, the two communications published by the commission on this subject emphasize certain critical points. in the euro area, effective assessment of the overall economic situation is lacking and the increasing complexity of economic governance has highlighted its lack of democracy and transparency. looking ahead, the four presidents (european parliament, european commission, council and ecb) decided to discuss the deepening of economic and monetary union (emu), also in the light of the results of the recent european elections and the political elections in some member states, in particular those held in greece in january 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the review of the economic governance framework. the introduction of the '6-pack' and '2-pack' has broadened the application of the stability and growth pact, seeking to prevent a deeper crisis while ensuring flexibility for structural reforms and investment. i am aware of the need to improve the economic governance framework, through simple and transparent procedures, to increase budgetary availability and to allow for economic convergence and convergence in the euro area, by strengthening national ownership, democratic accountability for the implementation of the rules and the systematic application of the rules enacted at european level. in order to return to growth and reduce unemployment, it is important that the governance framework is accepted by the public and that efforts are made to help smes in particular in their expansion phase, access to credit and reduction of red tape in order to achieve levels of competitiveness appropriate to the international market.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report by mrs berès which attempts to assess the effectiveness of the regulatory framework on economic governance. in particular, the report seeks to establish whether the provisions on decision-making processes have been sufficiently effective and whether progress has been made towards closer coordination of economic policies and sustainable convergence of member states' economic performance under the tfeu. the regulatory framework has proved to be good, but there is still a lack of an adequate assessment of the overall economic situation. today, economic governance, because of a lack of trust, has reached a level of complexity that is at the expense of democracy and transparency. this is why it is necessary to allow member states to undertake reforms on the basis of a common understanding of the situation. finally, to ensure that european citizens get the most out of the single currency, the debate on emu should be deepened. in this connection, it is parliament's task to ensure that the necessary elements for strengthening emu, such as budgetary capacity, renewed assistance mechanisms and the social dimension, are included in these negotiations.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this report is to take stock of the effectiveness of the current economic governance framework and to outline future challenges. the report, which clearly shows the german imposition, appears completely devoid of reality because it focuses on compliance with budgetary constraints, the lack of and insufficient enforcement of the rules and the inadequate implementation of reforms, due to the lack of 'ambition' on the part of the various member states in implementing the measures 'agreed' with the institutions. even when it comes to flexibility, the report never fails to stress that any deviation from budgetary constraints must be only temporary and cannot lead to a 3% of gdp excess. moreover, the report lacks a systematic and analytical reading of the reality, the causes of the crisis and the devastating impact that the current governance framework and the strategy adopted by the commission have had on the economies of the euro area. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe (ceecs) is based on the principle of the free movement of capital. the report concludes that there is no need to question the existing rules, let alone to amend the treaties. for the reasons i have given, i vote against.
in writing. ‒ the report has shown how much difference there is still today between those who preach against the europe of austerity, but who are still convinced that it is the only possible alternative, and those who are fighting for and putting on the table different solutions for a europe that completes its union and can become an added value in terms of growth, development and jobs. the same line of demarcation divides those who say that the imposed austerity measures have not been properly applied and those of us in the s&d group who think that they were, in reality, wrong or inadequate. we must make a firm stand, put behind us the initiatives and solutions which have been promoted to stem the acute crisis and launch an organic european plan capable of ensuring the completion of economic and monetary union in the long term. we firmly believe that we must start again, on the one hand, with the maximum of flexibility to close the investment gap that is hurting us, and on the other hand, with greater involvement of the european parliament and the national parliaments, which will restore democracy to the decisions taken in economic and monetary matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted strongly in favour of the own-initiative report on the review of european economic governance. in recent months, reforms have been launched which are finally putting growth and development back at the centre of europe. the watchwords have changed: no more austerity, but growth. we must now pursue this path with even greater determination in order to foster a new competitiveness of the european union and to restore employment, including by making the most of the new opportunities offered by the investment clause defined by the european commission in its recent communication on flexibility. only by directly linking the new and reformed economic governance to the real economy, the completion of the single market and the creation of a true digital market, can the measures taken in recent months really help to achieve lasting and sustainable growth in our countries. the deepening of the single market, a renewed focus on smes and quality european manufacturing and a definitive enhancement of intellectual property rights can be the major driving forces for new growth and jobs in europe.
in writing. ‒ the report on the economic governance framework audit highlights the balance sheet and prospects for european macroeconomic governance. this is a fundamental report for understanding the main dynamics in which the economic and monetary policy decisions of the european union have been and will be integrated. one of the main problems that has emerged is the lack of investment in europe, which leads to high unemployment and a lack of growth in the european economy. in recent years, a number of developments have taken place, including the revision of the stability and growth pact, the establishment of the european stability mechanism and the banking union. in particular, the european central bank has assumed a key role in maintaining political and macroeconomic stability within the euro area. from an institutional point of view, one of the main problems that emerged was the incompleteness of economic and monetary union, which failed to ensure coherence within the policy mix in the union. for this reason, the european parliament has intervened decisively in this context, not only laying the foundations but also building a new policy regime in which the european vision is given priority.
in writing. ‒ the berès report, already weak in its original formulation, was put to the vote in plenary as the result of an unacceptable compromise between the major groups and with a clear german approach. my vote against the text is due to the very nature of the idea behind it: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community, such as the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation, etc. in addition, although flexibility margins are mentioned, it is specified that these can only be temporary and in any case never lead to the excess of 3% of gdp. as a group we therefore tabled an alternative motion for a resolution which reflected the idea that the effects of the austerity measures imposed on the member states are at the root of this historic crisis in the euro area. our proposal, which is far from the text being put to the vote, provides that in order to reverse the negative trend it is necessary to consider introducing measures such as citizenship income, granting more fiscal autonomy to the member states and giving them the possibility of leaving the euro area.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this text, which, as regards the problem of economic governance in the eu, gives too much weight to the instruments put in place which have not worked (in their opinion often due to the fault of sm). the truth is different. it's a failure all the way, and not admitting it and persisting in being wrong will only make it worse.
in writing. ‒ in today's report we have addressed the important issue of economic governance. we have heard a lot about economic and financial recovery, and it is right that this issue should be given great importance because it is an essential element of our economic and monetary policy. however, it must be emphasized that this pillar will collapse if it is not backed up by the other pillar, which is support for the real economy. helping the real economy means rebalancing the balance, reducing debt and, above all, helping the citizens. for these reasons we welcome the fact that this report talks about flexibility and that commissioner katainen himself has spoken about it more forcefully than in the past. let us continue on this path and help rebuild the real economy to be closer to the citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the review of the economic governance framework for the euro area, because i share the need for new solutions to complete the project of economic and monetary union. for the first time since the crisis, the ep, which had called for the adoption of mechanisms to correct macroeconomic imbalances (due to high levels of public deficits and debt in many countries), carried out a major analysis of decision-making processes with a view to closer coordination of economic policies and greater convergence of european economies in order to make emu more solid. emu must have a strong social dimension, based on strong coordination of social policies and the introduction of a minimum wage/income throughout the eu. compared with the beginning of the crisis, the euro has proved to be able to withstand severe turbulence thanks to the creation of new instruments: the european parliament has made a major contribution to the european union's efforts to achieve a banking union, which aims to break the link between sovereign debt and banks; the european stability mechanism, which was designed to help the countries under the programme; the very important action of the ecb with its unconventional policies, including quantitative easing; and finally, greater flexibility in the interpretation of the ps&c, to increase investment.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mrs berès on the review of the economic governance framework, aware of its importance in assessing the effectiveness of the european regulatory framework for economic governance. the aim is to verify that the policies pursued by the member states under the tfeu have been sufficiently effective in seeking greater coordination of their economic policies.
in writing. ‒ the review of the economic governance framework concerns the effective implementation of the '6 pack' and '2 pack' packages. the governance review therefore means an analysis of the effectiveness of legislation and therefore being able to recognise the crisis situation in a member state as soon as possible, urging corrective action through structural reforms. i voted in favour of supporting the three strategic pillars of the commission: the commission has also adopted a communication on the future of the european union's external relations. the commission's communication that the '6 pack' and '2 pack' have worked well so far but it is too early to fully assess their effectiveness is also welcomed. the report calls for a rationalization of the european semester within the framework of the existing rules.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this report, which is the result of a long negotiation process between the various political groups, aimed at assessing the effectiveness of the existing regulatory framework on economic governance. in particular, we had to analyse whether the provisions on decision-making processes had proved sufficiently effective and whether progress had been made in terms of closer coordination of the economic policies of the member states. the negative impact on growth prospects of the introduction of simultaneous fiscal tightening in europe has been significantly underestimated, and the flexibility clauses of the stability and growth pact have not been fully used, also because of an overly restrictive interpretation. we believe that any economic governance framework cannot be judged solely on the basis of results, but must also be assessed in terms of political and democratic accountability. for this reason, the european parliament must be able to contribute to the debate on how to make emu work better in order to achieve the objectives of democracy, transparency and ownership. it is therefore necessary to put an end to purely intergovernmental agreements and to involve our assembly whenever necessary, in order to increase the democratic legitimacy of all economic governance decisions.
in writing. ‒ this report seeks to assess the efficiency of the economic governance framework, in particular whether the provisions on decision-making have proved sufficiently effective and whether progress has been made in terms of closer coordination of economic policies and lasting convergence of member states' performance. i therefore voted in favour of the text because it calls on the commission to present an ambitious roadmap for the achievement of a deep economic and monetary union, taking into account the proposals made in it, on the basis of the mandate given to it by the euro-area summit and confirmed by the european council, in order to prepare the next steps to improve economic governance.
in writing. ‒ the action plan approved by parliament contains important guidelines for the development of european governance and for this reason i voted in favour. the system of rules in place is complex and unsatisfactory, and the case of greece shows that we are still far from achieving a genuine economic and monetary union. the path started in 2008 should therefore be continued by improving the current governance measures to better protect the european system from external shocks. the introduction of a new legal framework to replace the troika is essential to achieve greater investment and sustainable growth. in this context, i believe it is particularly important to strengthen the role of parliament as an institution with democratic responsibilities and to ensure greater transparency in procedures.
in writing. ‒ first of all, i would like to thank my colleague and the commission for the great work they have done and for seeking a point of convergence on such an important outlook budget. i am in favour of the motion for a resolution because it is necessary to recognise the weaknesses of the euro and the european union and to adopt effective solutions to overcome the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by mr berès, which seeks to assess the effectiveness of the regulatory framework on economic governance. in line with the epp's position, i am satisfied with the governance framework, although the poor performance of both the excessive deficit procedure (edp) and the macroeconomic imbalance procedure (mip) should be highlighted, due to insufficient implementation.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against because the report, while presenting some justified criticism of the work of the european commission, maintains an overall overly optimistic and positive approach to the line taken by the european institutions, even though this line has proved to be completely unsuccessful and inconclusive in the face of the current social and economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ the eu and the euro area need simple and effective governance to avoid future repetition of inadequate and late actions and to ensure that european citizens can derive the maximum benefit from the single currency and the internal market. unfortunately, most observers, including the commission, acknowledge that economic governance has reached a level of complexity that is detrimental to democracy and transparency; it is therefore essential to pursue an ambitious and credible path of reform. a forward-looking reform programme that will boost the real economy and competitiveness and support advanced social standards: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community. we need proper economic coordination of our policies to reduce the macroeconomic imbalances that are undermining the growth of our continent. all these points are reflected in the berès report, which i voted for and supported with conviction.
in writing. i voted against this report because it sends an unacceptable political message, namely that europe today needs to further strengthen the rules and enforce them, rather than change them. the report argues that the real cause of the crisis is the failure to respect the current economic governance framework, not the devastating impact that austerity policies and the obsession with budgetary constraints have had on the economy and citizens. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the european union is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is a principle which is also enshrined in the treaty of rome. for these reasons i voted against the berès report and tabled an alternative motion for a resolution on behalf of the efdd group, in which we call for a radical revision of the budgetary rules and austerity policies, including through the revision of the treaties, and we reiterate the need to grant member states greater fiscal autonomy to finance productive public investment and social measures, such as citizenship income, and the right to leave the euro area and thus democratically choose their own currency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is important to start a debate on the institutional future of the european union as soon as possible. the position of parliament, together with the report of the five presidents, is a good basis for discussion and will, i hope, lead us to a more efficient union in the future, able to meet the challenges of the modern world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think that when you are elected president of parliament you lose the right to speak. and i must say, in all honesty, that when i met martin schulz a few months ago - both privately and publicly - i always heard from the president of parliament, from martin schulz, also my colleague in the group, constructive and cooperative positions for a positive search for a solution that would allow greece to be saved and for a concrete demonstration of solidarity with the greek people. i think it is wrong, at such a difficult time in the history of the european institutions, to invent targets that are not the right ones. let us instead focus on what needs to be done to get the european union, the euro area and greece out of this moment of extraordinary difficulty. i confirm the commitment of the socialist-democratic group to do everything we can to save greece, in compliance with the duties of the greek government and also in compliance with the principle of solidarity which animates the european union. let us not waste time arguing with a man who, during his presidency, has raised the authority, prestige and power of the european parliament to the highest level.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner hill, with this resolution the european parliament expresses its strong and convinced support for the project of a capital markets union. it is a first contribution to the definition of the agenda of the european institutions and an action plan of the commission. the capital markets union is a key component of a broader strategy to support growth and financial stability; may allow for a greater diversification of channels of financing to the economy, which should be complementary to and not replace bank financing, an incentive for a more efficient allocation of financial resources through the internal market, irrespective of the geographical location of the lender or borrower, and may promote better risk sharing and shock absorption. in particular, we believe that the capital markets union is particularly necessary to promote the development, growth and internationalisation of small and mediumsized enterprises and to encourage the channelling of financial resources towards long-term investment in support of the real economy, growth and development. we share the commission's view that an approach that is both ambitious and pragmatic and practical is necessary. and so we also outline a broader, more far-reaching vision, but we fully support the first steps that the commission has indicated. the resolution is very rich, and mr burkhard balz will certainly help to explain it. i would like to stress just a few points: i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the subject, which i think is a very good one, and that it is a very good one, and that it is a very good one, and that it is a very good one. parliament is prepared to play its part. we are here to contribute actively to the definition and implementation of a concrete roadmap for the capital markets union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is not many years since the financial crisis began and we are still stuck in it, but perhaps someone has forgotten, or pretends to forget, the causes that have brought us to this situation. the reason why the world economy has been brought to its knees is that it has been over-financialised, with the real economy suffering the catastrophic effects of ill-timed and risky financial choices. the solution that europe wants to propose with the capital markets union seems to be a mockery because it would like to restart the economy by focusing again on big capital and finance. references to smes are ridiculous, because we all know that this measure is not designed for them at all and comparisons with the us system are at least inappropriate, because our production and business fabric is very different. europe seems unwilling to learn from its mistakes, or perhaps the real objective is to build a union of capital and finance without the slightest regard for the interests of european citizens and small and mediumsized enterprises.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, small businesses, those which create jobs, are linked to the traditional credit system and this system has been disintegrated by universal banks through an extreme financialization associated with the insane project of the euro which, with austerity policies, has created imbalances and the destruction of the internal market of european countries, unemployment, hunger and poverty. as long as we continue to focus on finance and greed over traditional banking, we will create more and more inequality. and that 's the point . the inequality. if we focus on who owns capital and who has a speculative interest in investing in the future, we will never be able to get out of the two main problems facing europe at the moment, which are poverty and unemployment. we must focus on a credit bank project, on a functional bank project and no longer focus on finance, otherwise we will always have a crisis and it will always be the taxpayers who have to pay.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, access to credit and lack of investment are two of the problems that businesses have to face if we are to really support the real economy and solve these problems. there is a clear lack of investment in europe and to invest, of course, you need capital. it 's not enough to have the banks . it is therefore necessary to unlock those instruments which are not being used through alternative forms of financing and thus also to make greater use of risk capital, but i am also thinking of increasing the use of pension funds. but if demand is not linked to supply, i.e. investors to small and mediumsized enterprises, these measures will not be sufficient. there is a lack of information for smes but even investors are not aware of the potential that exists within the 24 million smes in europe. so we need to improve the flow and quality of data on smes to meet the information thirst that exists. so why not create a tool, which can be a telematic platform, can be a lean agency, to collect, analyse and disseminate data on small and medium-sized enterprises and thus an exchange of information between enterprises and capital? it is a tool that would thus serve as a bridge between entrepreneurs, businesses and investors, assessing the need for credit and the growth potential of european smes. it could be an initiative to group small and mediumsized enterprises into traditional clusters, thus supporting not only the real economy but also the development of the internal market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the perpetual austerity of the economic and financial crisis has for years undermined european growth, damaging the foundations of the economy and worsening social conditions. in these very last hours in greece, and therefore throughout europe, there is a call for a stronger level of protection for investors and savers, who are immune to the banking system, a free movement of capital for all 28 member states, a market which is a real benefit to the economy, growth and employment. this can only be achieved by removing obstacles to cross-border investment through necessary measures such as the adoption of medium and long-term risk analysis and private equity measures, simplifying the raising of capital for businesses, including smes, across the european union and reducing the excessive administrative burden on businesses. i therefore share all the questions in the question and rely in my analysis on the principles of transparency and consistency in the protection of savings, which i hope will remain the basis of any economic reform.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is widely believed that an economic system can grow indefinitely: but any economic system is always within a closed ecological system, our planet. the sooner we understand this, and the sooner we understand that gross domestic product and its growth rate are indicators designed to reflect a linear consumer model that has destroyed our earth. we must understand that prosperity and growth are two very different things and that we do not necessarily need to increase consumption to live better. this is the basis of the circular economy. i had the privilege of being the rapporteur on this circular economy dossier in the working group where we took a clear position to facilitate the transition: shift taxation from labour to resource use, differentiate vat, reducing it for recycled or ready-to-recycle goods and prepare our countries for the new jobs that will be created by the circular economy, spread across the territory and in small and medium-sized enterprises. circular economy is the future: we need to rethink, innovate and prepare to embrace all the opportunities that this future will bring.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the environment is protected. the circular economy is not a dream, but an urgent need, a great opportunity. it is urgently needed because the earth's resources are not unlimited, because the quality of the planet's environment is deteriorating, because global warming is not being stopped and because a dramatic food emergency is becoming more evident. this is a great opportunity for europe, because we, the world's leading economic power, the world's leading consumer market, cannot be dependent on imported raw materials for 60% of our consumption and only recover 5% of this material. with a bold transition to a circular economy, it is possible to develop good jobs, increase european wealth, become leaders in strategic sectors. only the shortsighted and the deaf continue to ignore that environmental quality will become an increasingly essential factor in the development of our economy. the cultural change, the lifestyle change, the design and production change that we want to achieve is based on a simple principle: the raw materials in the products are no longer to be considered as waste to be discarded after a short life cycle. "from cradle to cradle", said the commissioner: that's right, yeah. we want and must move from the culture of waste, the practice of disposal, from unbridled consumerism to that of reuse and recycling. that is why we need to support innovation, research, companies that innovate. that is why we need a revolution in the design and production of consumer goods, in the construction, organization and operation of our cities, new regulations on public procurement in food production and consumption. here are a few key objectives: increase our resources by 30% by 2030; produce the same products with 30% less resources; the commission has also proposed that the member states should set up a european waste management system, which would be based on the principle of 'common waste'. these are the objectives which we as socialists and democrats support and i hope that parliament will be consistent and coherent with the choices we have made in the committee on the environment.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, before i begin, i would also like to thank the rapporteur, our colleague on the environment committee, who has worked very hard on this subject. we've worked with her, but i have to say she's done a really great job. we are here today to talk about the circular economy and in two days' time we will vote on this important own-initiative report in which parliament calls on the commission to make a proposal on this subject which we consider to be fundamental, not only to begin to build a new europe, to begin to build a europe of the peoples, a political europe - what is lacking today and we see it in the case of greece - but also to begin to build a different europe, a better society, a society of the future, the society we expect and in which our children will live. that is why we say that this is a tremendous opportunity to get out of that ideological dogma that sees at the heart of all development and profit at all costs and to get out of that infernal logic of growth. we hear that word more and more. we expect the commission's proposal to be centred on something other than technological progress as the sole basis for the cult of economic development, this kind of religion, where economists are the high priests who invite us in the west to expand ever more. we hope that this proposal will put an end once and for all to this utilitarian greed, which imposes unlimited growth, even though we know that resources are limited, which imposes ruthless competition on all member states and which therefore forces us to increase the debt-strap, which imposes and increases the disaster of migration flows and which also forces us all to bear the gravity of the social consequences. we must also, once and for all, overcome the concept of sustainable development, because it is not enough to make the mega-machine better or less polluting.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the circular economy has been discussed for decades, both in the scientific community and in civil society, as well as among social movements. finally, in the european parliament too, we are talking about this subject, we are talking about progress, basically, we are talking about the future of our economy. the report by mrs pietikäinen is a report which contains measures which are very much to be welcomed and which really looks in the direction of a circular economy, but in which there is a gap, in my view: you don't talk about circular economy until you talk about incineration. this practice, in addition to being a source of pollution dangerous to human health and the environment, also affects the possibility of implementing a waste reduction policy, which is one of the most important measures in the hierarchy of solid urban waste management. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. in this context, the measures proposed in the resolution risk being distorted and reduced to partial and weak measures, which do not allow the full achievement of a circular economy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the circular economy is a unique opportunity to help launch the economic and social development of europe and to launch it into a new phase of sustainable development, a phase in which waste is a resource, businesses are at the heart of the sustainable revolution and production and business models are circular precisely because they recycle raw materials and their efficient use. but it would be wrong to confine the circular economy to environmental policy. so you understand that the circular economy is not just what we want to do with the waste, so it's not just what percentage of separate collection we want to achieve, where we want to give it. the circular economy is undoubtedly the revision of waste legislation, which is an essential part, but it is much more. we must consider it as a strategic axis of economic development and - let me say this - even european industrial and social finance, because it means, for example, designing and manufacturing products in such a way as to increase their durability, recyclability and repairability, supporting the secondary raw materials market and changing, and at the same time reorienting, business and enterprise models. what then? it will be important for the european institutions to identify areas where there are clear legislative and economic-financial barriers to transition and to take action there with clear and pragmatic rules. (the speaker agrees to reply to a blue card question (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. thank you, mr president, for your beautiful words, mr president, we agree with everything you have said. but, you know, can you talk to the president of the council renzi? can you tell him that this thing you said is completely at odds with the decree "unlock italy" which doubles oil extraction and which frees the incineration of waste? can you tell him, please? because it just makes it look like you're taking us for a ride.
answer to a blue-card question. but you see, mr pedicini, i thank you for these considerations. but i would also like to point out that perhaps we are in a body which is not the italian parliament proper. i would therefore like to try to keep the debate on the level of european regulations, which are regulations, and on which we are also going to draw up a new development model. so i would like to stick to what we want to do for the future of our continent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i also thank the vice-president for being here for this interesting debate and i would like to thank mrs pietikäinen, who has worked hard to put together a series of proposals and requests from all the political groups, which we will vote on wednesday to give the european commission a direction to take so that, by the end of the year, as vice-president timmermans said, we have a more ambitious proposal on the circular economy. but let me make a couple of points, mr vice-president, which are essential. we want a circular economy and no longer a linear economy because we also want a more competitive business system. we believe that in order to have a more sustainable industrial system in the long term, we need to reuse everything that can be reused in the production process. we cannot think of throwing away what may still have value in the business system for new production. that is why we are strongly calling on the commission - and we have asked it before we withdraw the proposal on waste - to come forward with a more ambitious proposal, a proposal which will enable us to look even further ahead, on the one hand, to make the economic system competitive and, on the other, to have a sustainable system, that is, a system which can be maintained in the long term. we are asking the commission to do this in its proposal with our report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, changing the development model means abandoning the exponential growth of consumption of goods, energy consumption and therefore consumption of natural resources. it means being aware and being consistent and taking action to close incinerators and landfills; the commission has also proposed that the steel industry be closed down completely, as it consumes raw materials, and that steel be recovered as a recyclable material. it means shutting down plants that have a negative impact on health and the environment and that often kill. the steelworks at ilva in taranto are a prime example of this, an old and uneconomic plant. i ask this parliament, and my italian colleagues in particular, to be consistent, not to fill their mouths with industrial ecology, eco-design, the sharing economy and then not to act against eco-mafia and eco-scoundrels but, on the contrary, to support governments which issue laws to save the profits of large murderous companies. i am referring to the eighth decree to save ilva, which once again gave a licence to kill to a plant already under investigation for several european infringements. i call on parliament and the commission to be consistent and to act immediately against the italian government, by closing infringement proceedings as soon as possible and enforcing compliance with european directives and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
vice-president of the commission.– mr president, thank you very much for this very good discussion. i would like to thank the rapporteur, sirpa pietikäinen, for a very good and interesting paper. as both first vice-president timmermans and i have said, the commission takes this exercise very seriously, we are passionate about this issue, and we also recognise the big challenge ahead of us, because the circular economy is not a simple issue at all. we want to be very humble with this large entity in order to choose the right things which need european-wide regulation. we also have to recognise where we do not need european-wide regulation. many colleagues here asked what i meant when i said that we have to avoid over—regulation. what i meant is that there are very good examples in europe even now, especially in the industrial sector, of business models which represent the circular economy. if we over-regulate something, it means that those good examples will be killed, and we have to avoid this. our aim is to set a target, and we want to be flexible on how to get there because the target itself is the main issue. for us, the circular economy is a matter of competitiveness; it is a matter of innovation; it is a matter of job creation, investment and growth. as europeans, we need to find a way to create a better environment for the circular economy. in the united states they do not necessarily have that need, because they have some points they can rely on, and on which to build their competitiveness, but when looking at europe, we have an economic necessity, an imperative, to be successful in this. when looking at asia, especially china, they have an environmental necessity, similarly to us. so this is a competition situation – whether europe is ahead of, for instance, the chinese, when creating incentives to business and consumers to boost the circular model of our economy. so let us continue on this file. this is also very important from the internal market viewpoint. if we manage to create an internal market for used raw materials or a secondary market for raw materials, then we can again build incentives for healthier, more environmentally, socially and economically sustainable development on this issue. the public consultations will last until 20 august. i hope you will all pass a message to stakeholders to be active, because we need good examples, we need assistance and advice from the private sector – but also from the ngo sector – on what is the best way to boost the circular economy on our continent.
in writing. with the report we are about to vote on, the european parliament can make a strong push to change the approach to the economic model to which we are accustomed, namely the 'take, produce and throw away' model. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament, including the provision of information on the activities of the european parliament and the commission. i also think it is essential to refer to the proposal announced by the commission on the revision of waste legislation: the commission must be obliged to present it by 2015, including clear and unambiguous definitions, the development of waste prevention measures, the application of the 'pay as you throw' principle and the strict limitation of incinerators. i hope that the commission will be able to take these inputs and be able to push member states towards a paradigm shift towards an economic system where the materials and energy used to manufacture products retain their value for as long as possible, thereby reducing waste and resource use and at the same time creating economic opportunities and competitive advantages on a sustainable basis.
in writing. the circular economy logic is absolutely central to our planet and very dear to the five star movement. it is very important that resources are used in the right way, through a conscious and sustainable use. the lack of this perspective is the cause of immense environmental damage, with often irreversible effects, which are seriously jeopardizing the survival of our planet as we know it today. the environmental damage is compounded by economic damage. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. certain aspects of the circular economy can also be a source of employment, thus providing additional benefits. in conclusion, a paradigm shift involving everyone is absolutely necessary and i very much hope that parliament will be able to give the right impetus.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, european milk producers are operating in a context where the economic crisis, the fall in domestic consumption and the russian embargo are creating an unsustainable situation and the increase in milk production at european level, following the end of the quota system, is bound to have serious repercussions on the falling price and the producers' ever-shrinking margins. new supply management instruments, not comparable to those already in place, are therefore needed to counter the extreme volatility of prices. the new model for agricultural guarantees, presented by the european investment bank (eib) last march, could be used by member states to create new financial instruments and facilitate access to credit for dairy producers. the eib's intervention to manage the end of the milk quota system could be an important step: the commission notes that the aid is granted to the following undertakings: and among the many problems, there is also some light. i am referring to the increase in world demand for milk and cheese, which is increasing on european markets: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's farmers are not left behind.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, lead by example: this is the imperative that every organisation should have before proposing virtuous policies to its employees or, in the case of public institutions, to the rest of society. on the issue of gender equality, this good practice is perhaps even more relevant, given the need to demolish a shared culture that has difficulty in recognizing women in decision-making roles in the coming months. the committee's work will be renewed in the coming months and the aim will be to correct an unacceptable situation: it is not possible that in the plenary session of the european economic and social committee, the body representing civil society, last year 46 000 votes were cast by men and only 13 000 by women. they seem like little things compared to the big events that are overwhelming us these days. but we can't miss them. we can't afford to lose opportunities, big or small. it's only by taking them all that we can demonstrate in practice that we have really made gender equality a priority.
the latvian presidency must be acknowledged as having acted with good will, competence and dignity. important results have been achieved, and i am thinking in particular of the approval of the investment plan and the measures on roaming. but at this hour, there is no denying the feeling of concern that is emerging in many citizens. too many european summits have ended with partial results; the commission has presented an ambitious programme on immigration, but it was the council that tried to derail it. the member states, all of us, must take full responsibility. never before has europe been at a decisive turning point. i do not think there is any alternative to the agreement between greece and its creditors. i do not even want to consider the possibility of a no deal, because not reaching a deal would open the door to a disastrous scenario that would threaten not only the financial stability of the euro area but also the future of europe. i therefore fully share the position of president juncker, whom i thank for his constructive efforts, and i say that we must use every second, to the last, to reach an agreement with the creditors. the result of the greek vote, for me and for us socialists and democrats, is clear: the greeks don't want to leave the euro. they want to negotiate a deal that allows them to build a decent life prospect. governments, all governments in the euro area, need to listen to this message and make an effort to overcome rigidity because the stakes are too high. to that finance minister who yesterday said that grexit was the only option, i say: we will oppose those who play the game of the dam, the sorcerer's apprentices who are playing with the future of europe. i say to mr tsipras and his government that it is important that they make sensible proposals to the summit today. this is a time of responsibility for all. and the accusations made by a former greek minister against the creditors, calling them terrorists, are unacceptable. it is very significant that all the greek parties have signed a single document to support the reasons for the agreement. the summit of this evening, based on a new constructive approach, can pave the way for a bridge loan which will give the greek people breathing space and create the conditions for long-term intervention by the state aid fund. in the next few hours we must avoid creating a banking panic: the greek credit system must be put in a position to continue to work. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, this is the time for action and solutions. i would remind all of us that a possible exit of greece from the euro would probably represent a point of no return. against the risk of disintegration, we need a surge of pride and responsibility from all sides to save europe.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wish the outgoing presidency all the best, but the fact that you have three women does not mean that everything is going well: it's a little bit of a hypocrite. there are good women and there are not so good women; there are good men and there are not so good men. it's not like three women are better than three men. so let's not be hypocritical. as for president juncker, i see him here for the first time and i can speak to him and ask him questions. the first: but do you know how much a liter of milk costs? a kilo of bread? a gallon of gas? because you always talk about big things, big numbers, you're in the middle of banks, multinationals, you've lived with them all your life: but the people, the people have other things to do, they need other answers! then i 'll give you an example . this is the flag of germany; this is the flag of europe. i don't want to die. it's either europe or germany! otherwise, europe will become small, but germany must become small too. we have to make it smaller. we must not allow the european parliament to be the arbiter of europe, because there was already one who wanted to take europe with nazism. we do not want economic nazism now, and so i think we need to change the register a little. and again, president juncker, i would like to ask you: but the 300 billion investment, where did it go? or, there are two cards: this is the euro and this is the toilet paper. i think that today, thanks to your work, this is more important in europe than this, because you are driving europe to the ground. you're not doing what's in the people's interest, and therefore, you would be the first to resign. he should resign and apologize to greece for what he has done and apologize to all of europe because you are sending it into economic collapse! people are committing suicide, we're facing an economic disaster, there are illegal aliens... and then what do we want? the martians?
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, agriculture is an essential and sensitive part of the ttip negotiations. the consequences of the russian embargo have clearly demonstrated the geopolitical importance of agriculture, the need for access to multiple agricultural markets and the need for reliable trading partners. the committee on agriculture calls for an ambitious and balanced outcome to the negotiations, which will improve access for our agri-food products to the us market. but at the same time, we must not call into question european standards in the areas of food safety, human health, animal welfare, environmental protection and consumer protection. ttip must be an opportunity to set high standards globally. europe has aggressive interests in the agri-food sector, commissioner malmström, with a balance sheet of some eur 6 billion. there is still a lot of room for growth for the export of european products to the american market, especially quality products, and that is why ttip must be the opportunity to block the indiscriminate use of european geographical marks.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, together with the american government, the commission is planning the greatest attack on the standards, safety and health of european citizens, the biggest fraud since the end of the second world war, and why? i ask the commission: why do you want ttip so badly? all the independent studies, the really independent ones, show that we europeans will be poorer, with net income losses of up to 5 000 euros per year per family; with fewer rights, because there will be over a million layoffs; we're going to be sicker because gmos and cloned meat and hormone-laced meat will be legal, and we're going to be less safe because we're going to live in a world where the euro-american mega-bloc is going to be opposed to the chinese-russian mega-bloc: we are now faced with a world of political, economic and commercial cold war instead of a world of cooperation. you say that to boost investment we need isds, that is, private justice for investors, but that is not true! investment between the us and europe is already at eur 3 000 billion even without isds and in european countries where it already exists, this system has given rise to eur 30 billion in claims for compensation which increase every day. how can you say that we will find growth again when many studies show that there will be a fall in european net exports of at least 2% and a consequent fall in gdp? how dare you say that we will never change our standards when you have already withdrawn the ban on the use of lactic acid on meat in order to facilitate ttip? and if ttip won't reduce our food security, why did you just withdraw the bill to restrict endocrine disruptors? i know why! because that law would have blocked 40% of american food coming into europe, and you couldn't afford it. you have sold the health of european citizens in the name of free trade. how can you believe that a market like ours, where there are controls for 143 000 chemicals, is compatible with one where there are only 6 controlled substances? how can you even think that this treaty will help small and mediumsized enterprises when they export mainly to europe and this treaty will actually stifle intra-european trade in favour of trade with the united states? you want to make us look like we're anti-american, but we're not. the united states is an ally of europe, but the problem here is not them. the problem is in our own country and it is the big multinationals in europe, america and beyond that are taking advantage of ttip to create the ideal world, or rather, excuse me, the ideal market: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. but even more than that, the problem is you, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, you who should be the regulator, who should be protecting the citizens, and instead you are the waiters for the bankers and the multinationals. and you, president schulz, you should be a guarantor of fairness: but he wants to propose a shameful compromise, which may bring the socialists and the people's party together, but which in fact says nothing and sells the rights of citizens to international investors, pretending to protect them. mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, we are not elected by the corporations. and i hope that all of you have the courage to show that because sooner or later you will answer to the citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ttip is europe's opportunity, perhaps its last, to play a leading role in the global world and to regulate globalisation. this is the most important challenge we have and we cannot afford to waste it. the european parliament is the only institution which can intervene to ensure that the negotiations are conducted with the utmost regard for the concerns of the citizens about the possible risks if there is no good agreement. it is a challenge that we as an institution cannot afford to miss. that is why we must speak out and support this report which highlights and underlines all these concerns. and it does so by declining to discuss what transparency, respect for environmental and food standards, labour standards, consumer safety, respect for cultural diversity and safeguarding public services mean to us. he does not turn a blind eye to the only protest that gets applause but is not constructive: it is a very real approach, which sets very clear standards against the distortions and inequalities that unregulated globalisation can cause. it is a good report and that is why we must support it vigorously and we must do so because the crisis we are experiencing right now is also and above all a crisis of confidence in the institutions. today there is an automatic equation that everything proposed by the institutions, perceived as the establishment, is necessarily negative. we must break this mechanism because it leads to the destruction of the democratic structure which, imperfect as it is, is the best possible form of government, even european, that we have. we must exercise our role as decision-makers to the full and courageously and then speak out, by approving the report, because if we do not do this, if we do not set certain conditions, if we do not set priorities, but at the same time give a push for the negotiations to continue, others will fill the vacuum that we leave behind. and if the square, real or virtual, on the one hand, or corporations on the other, take the place of institutions, democracy, whether you like it or not, is at risk.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on sunday the greek people voted and decided and since sunday everything has changed: nothing will be the same. the european parliament must also understand this! ladies and gentlemen, you must understand that ttip is another treaty made against our economies and our citizens, against our agriculture and our businesses. today we members, representing 500 million citizens, should approve or reject a 100-page report with hundreds of recommendations to the commission and then hope that the commission will listen. unfortunately, the commission, the ecb and the imf are all controlled by a few people: the european parliament has been a very important instrument in this process. we must not approve new treaties, but we must rewrite the old ones - lisbon, maastricht, dublin, schengen, basle - which have made the european union an instrument of destruction and ruin for our peoples. we must review the euro system, which was the beginning of the end of the european dream. we must have the courage to stand up and fight together fearlessly to change this european soviet union, as the greek people have done with courage.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is important to begin by explaining what ttip is all about. today we are moving towards a global agreement which sees asia on the one hand and europe on the other. i believe that in order to write the rules of trade policy, we must participate without ideological prejudice and above all without demagogy. i think it is essential to mention one fact: the growth in italy and europe is at 10%, it's at 1%. i think that 90 percent is perspective, that global data that we have to, by the way, prepare for. our small and mediumsized enterprises must be equipped to have a dimension which will enable them to participate in an internationalisation process. we must protect and track our food security, we must have geographical indications, that is, we must be able to participate while ensuring that our quality is protected and guaranteed. i advocate a line of reasoning: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we say 'oxi' to ttip for many reasons. i want to mention just one: the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposal, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposal, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposal, but i am going to say that i am going to go into the details of the commission's proposal. for democracy, because you know very well, commissioner, that regulatory cooperation or the new generation of isds are in reality a trojan horse of the multinationals, they are a way of making the rights of investors prevail over the rights of citizens. and in the name of democracy, because what you call non-tariff barriers are actually the right to work, the precautionary principle, the right to health. we have studies showing that ttip would cause more than 600 000 new unemployed in europe, a new and further shift of income from wages to capital. we have many reasons for saying "oxi" to ttip, but above all i want to ask you, commissioner, in the name of democracy, are you prepared to put ttip to a referendum? otherwise we ask that they be suspended.... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, too often and deliberately today's debate and vote on the lange resolution has been confused with the final vote on ttip. today we are not approving ttip. the commission is conducting a negotiation which will be long and difficult and whose outcome is not certain. there will therefore be a time when we must say yes or no to a treaty: that time hasn't come yet. at an important stage in the negotiations, the resolution clearly states our priorities: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the geographical indications are protected, that our small and mediumsized enterprises have access to the us market, that we overcome the old isds and that we protect our social, health and environmental standards. these are some of the conditions we need to achieve a result that is beneficial for europe, for its growth and its competitiveness. what is at stake is not just a trade agreement but the rewriting of the rules of globalisation. who but europe can redefine the parameters of a globalisation that is fairer and more respectful of the social and environmental rights of all? a good ttip can be an important part of that. in the face of this challenge, the european parliament, like europe, has the choice of playing the leading role or remaining silent, waiting for others to decide for us. the concerns, the wishes and the hopes of europe are well expressed in mr lange's report. tempus fugit: this is the first time it's up to us to choose whether to keep up with history or be condemned to oblivion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have never been more at a crossroads with regard to our european future. we are paying for a lack of unity and a frightening weakness of policy. it looks like we're under siege. terrorism, refugees, slow growth, the mutual isolation between us and russia and, finally, the upheaval in greece, with the uncertain and dangerous outcome of the referendums. the ttip resolution proposed here is a positive development. a silent european parliament would have been an even more negative signal. we 're not making a final decision today . we're giving addresses to the negotiators. the landing achieved, thanks above all to the perseverance, intelligence and firmness of president lange, i consider to be a victory also for the socialists, for their vision and their fundamental principles. ttip is not good or bad. it's not a fetish, a myth, a symbol: it is a provision which can become, if done wrong, harmful, if done right, valuable. we must not be nice to people or, worse, hide behind ideologies. we must look at the merits, and the document we are approving contains the defence of fundamental standards on the environment and the protection of workers, the health of citizens, human rights. we know that there are different views on isds in this parliament, but i'm not interested in the back-room thinking of the other groups, their... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the ttip can be a trade agreement with great potential and benefits for the european market and for european businesses, benefits in terms of both economic and trade, growth and employment: that's why we're aiming for it. but at the same time we must also facilitate the entry into the american market of many of our economic activities, make our companies more competitive, our european products, especially those of excellence, those which we actually define as made in italy to made in europe. and that has to be one of our priorities. my hope is that through this agreement we can offer good opportunities for our small and mediumsized enterprises. everything we do in this parliament is aimed at small and mediumsized enterprises, from the small business act to everything we have passed and are passing every day. i am also referring to the agricultural market and, above all, to the objective of identifying the appropriate rules for the indication of the origin of products for the proper protection of our consumers. this is a focal point for us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the myth, the deception, the anti-democratic fraud: this is the only way to describe this so-called free trade agreement, which is in fact the wildest and most aggressive triumph of hyperliberalism. the european parliament has been the first to express its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia. there is not a single serious independent study that guarantees employment growth. and you are insulting these rights by calling them non-tariff barriers, whereas we call them democratic barriers. commissioner, you and all of you have simply ignored the voice of the people: 97% said no to isds, no to private arbitration, no and that's it. but you are still trying to hide it by making sure that the rights of all are violated by the profit of a few. this is no longer a democracy: this is the "schulzcracy", the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. the debate on ttip and trade relations with the united states is an important issue, one which we members of parliament must know and evaluate properly. so welcome this report, which calls for transatlantic agreements to protect our high-quality production, the high quality standards of our products, workers' rights and the protection of personal data. a report that sends an important signal on a highly debated topic such as isds: i would like to reiterate that the isds system must be replaced by a new public system of investor-state dispute settlement, subject to democratic principles and control. justice must be equal for all. we must certainly be vigilant, and those who are dealing with this matter must take account of the issues we are expressing today by means of this vote. i am sure that at the end of the negotiations we will have an advanced trading system which can bring important results for our economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my appeal is particularly serious because, unfortunately, i was astonished to find that two weeks ago in brussels, in an exhibition on the third floor devoted to ukraine, the symbol of ukrainian pride was displayed, the symbol of the so-called azov battalion, a battalion which, thanks to the reports of many journalists who also live through the conflict on the ground, is accused of war crimes and has a clear neo-nazi inspiration, given the symbols contained in its coat of arms. i think this is a disgrace and i call on the bureau to take action against those who have allowed symbols of neo-nazi origin to be hung in this house of democracy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of appointing bettina michelle jakobsen as a member of the court of auditors because i believe that her cv shows that she has the qualities to fulfil such a role.
in writing. - i vote against it. the court of auditors is doing too little to reveal the true waste of the union and its organs. the candidate, even with a remarkable cv, will be another useless puppet.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors audits the accounts of the european union. it is composed of one national from each member state. the european parliament was consulted today on the danish candidate. although bettina michelle jakobsen has the experience required to exercise this function, i, along with the m5s delegation, chose to abstain because parliament's power is only advisory: the council alone has the power to decide.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of bettina michelle jakobsen as a member of the court of auditors. given your remarkable record, i believe you are the right person for the job.
in writing. ‒ i would like to extend my warm congratulations and best wishes to the new member of the court of auditors, bettina michelle jakobsen, on her new appointment. this is an important and prestigious role, and a key role in protecting the interests of european taxpayers and ensuring that european funds are properly collected and used, thus improving the eu's financial management.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the council's proposal to appoint ms bettina michelle as a member of the court of auditors. in this respect, i believe that the skills acquired by the candidate, as well as her good knowledge of international standards in auditing and public accounting, and her professional background, should be considered as an added value to the work and activities carried out by the court of auditors in terms of credibility, quality and professionalism.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the candidate, bettina michelle jakobsen, has the necessary skills to be a valid member of the court of auditors. with her extensive professional experience, ms jakobsen has acquired a considerable knowledge of the audit profession. a keen understanding of the dynamics of the financial sector makes her a very valuable candidate. for all the reasons i have just mentioned, i have decided to support the report by mr soltes.
in writing. ‒ taking into account that the european parliament's committee on budgetary control has carefully assessed the qualifications of the candidate, we express a positive opinion on the council's proposal to appoint bettina michelle jakobsen as a new member of the court of auditors. the maintenance of high quality professional standards and guidelines is essential for the credibility and professionalism of public sector auditing. we also believe that the independence of the members of the court of auditors is a fundamental prerequisite for the institution's ability to operate. on the basis of her long experience in auditing, we hope that mrs jakobsen will be able to ensure sound financial management of the public service, particular attention to the legality of expenditure, an effective internal control system, particular attention to achieving a good cost-benefit ratio. we believe that it can carry out the tasks assigned to it, offering every possible guarantee of objectivity, neutrality and impartiality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the abovementioned report, which expresses a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint bettina michelle jakobsen as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i would like to express my warmest congratulations and closeness to my colleague, mrs bettina michelle jakobsen, on her appointment as a member of the court of auditors, and to wish her a fruitful career in this regard. i therefore express a favourable opinion on this appointment.
in writing. ‒ i do not share the policies of this europe in the field of international trade policy. increasingly, the eu is protecting the interests of large multinationals rather than those of small producers who protect our excellence and above all quality. for these reasons i did not intend to vote in favour of the maštálka report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe that the codification of the legislative and regulatory texts dealing with the exercise of the union's rights in the context of international trade rules is necessary for legal certainty and is, in a sense, in line with the commission's new policy 'better lawmaking'.
in writing. - i vote against it. it is a mere codification measure but it relates to a text whose content i do not agree with. the eu must completely overhaul the rules governing international trade that are killing the made in italy and the italian manufacturing economy.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down union procedures in the field of the common commercial policy. it is of paramount importance that the eu is able to ensure the stability of international trade agreements and this must be done through appropriate instruments such as: rules defining the framework for the exercise of union rights in certain specific situations; rebalancing measures, including by suspending concessions in cases where the third country concerned fails to make appropriate adjustments; effective communication and exchange of views between the commission, on the one hand, and the european parliament and the council, on the other.
in writing. ‒ the report by mr maštálkala confirms that the commission proposal is merely a codification of existing texts without any substantial changes, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amended proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down union procedures in the field of the common commercial policy in order to ensure the exercise of the union's rights under international trade rules, in particular those established under the auspices of the wto. the proposal in question is merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amended proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down union procedures in the field of the common commercial policy. having regard to the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on better law-making, which seeks to speed up the official codification of legislative texts, and whereas the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, meeting on 26 february 2015, concluded that the proposal in question does not seek to amend existing texts but merely codifies them, i have assessed the proposal positively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr maštálka's report because the proposal in question is a mere codification of existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. - i vote against this report. even if it is merely codification, it is trade policy, and it has been a disaster for my country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the amended proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down union procedures in the field of the common commercial policy in order to ensure the exercise of the union's rights under international trade rules, in particular those established under the auspices of the world trade organisation. the common commercial policy must be based on uniform principles, particularly as regards trade defence: this need is all the more acute at a historic moment when the eu is negotiating several bilateral trade agreements with important trading partners. allowing european companies and businesses to report directly to the commission any injuries and obstacles to international trade that they encounter, and immediately, is a step towards a europe that looks after the interests of its companies and its member states in a uniform way. finally, i think it is important to codify this regulation, which creates a secure procedure applicable throughout the eu for complaints and procedures for resolving international commercial disputes, in which the european commission plays the role of the representative of the interests of the entire european union.
in writing. according to the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question is merely a codification of existing texts without any substantial changes. the subject matter concerns the amended proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down union procedures in the field of the common commercial policy in order to ensure the exercise of the union's rights under international trade rules, in particular those established under the auspices of the world trade organisation. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the amended proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the exercise of the union's rights in the field of international trade rules is adopted. the proposal lays down community procedures in the field of the common commercial policy, which are designed to ensure the effective exercise of the union's rights under international trade rules; the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions. the common commercial policy is based on uniform principles, particularly as regards trade defence, and on a transparent legal mechanism designed to overcome barriers to trade adopted by third countries.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is based on a mere codification of existing texts, without making any substantial changes to them. i am aware that simplification of the texts makes them easier to understand, and i have therefore decided to support this report.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts, we welcome without delay this proposal on union procedures in the field of the common commercial policy, in order to ensure the exercise of the union's rights under international trade rules, in particular those established under the auspices of the world trade organisation. the advisory group reached the unanimous conclusion that the proposal was merely a codification of existing texts and did not make any substantial changes. we therefore ask our president to forward it to the commission and the national parliaments as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the european union attaches great importance to simplifying and clarifying community legislation so that it is more understandable and accessible to citizens. this objective cannot be achieved as long as the innumerable provisions, which have been amended several times and often substantially, remain scattered, forcing those wishing to consult them to look for them both in the original act and in the amending acts. the purpose of this proposal is therefore to initiate the codification of council regulation (ec) no 3286/94 of 22 december 1994 laying down community procedures in the field of the common commercial policy in order to ensure the exercise of the union's rights under international trade rules, in particular those established under the auspices of the world trade organisation. in view of the foregoing considerations and as this is a technical report which does not introduce any new content but merely codifies existing texts, i thought it appropriate to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr mastalka on the exercise of the union's rights in the context of international trade rules, the proposal in question is merely a codification of existing texts, without any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ i chose to vote against because it is a mere codification measure concerning a regulation which i consider to be inadequate as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the exercise of the union's rights in the context of international trade rules, as it is a simple codification of existing legislative texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ in this period of crisis affecting all italian and european production sectors, i believe that this measure is in defence of the european shipping sector by trying to protect it from possible speculation that may take place during the sales negotiations. that is why i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe that the codification of the legislative and regulatory texts dealing with the defence against harmful pricing practices in the sale of ships is necessary for legal certainty and is, in a certain sense, in line with the commission's new policy of better regulation.
in writing. - i vote for it. the rules in question relate to the regulation of the sale of certain types of vessels in order to prevent speculation on the sale price, which could be to the disadvantage of the union industry.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against injurious pricing in the sale of ships. in this case the proposal is merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantial changes. the development of a code on injurious pricing practices in the shipbuilding sector arises from the need to provide effective safeguards against the sale of ships at prices below normal value, which is a market-distorting factor. it is therefore desirable to establish clear and detailed guidance on the factors which are relevant in order to determine whether the injurious sales have caused serious injury or threaten to cause injury. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr maštálka on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against injurious pricing in the sale of ships, which confirms that the commission proposal is merely a codification of existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against injurious pricing in the sale of ships. the proposal in question is merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this purely technical proposal because defence against price policies which do not facilitate competitive participation in the market has always been a pillar to which my party refers and my efforts in this regard are aimed at supporting the italian economy in europe and the world.
in writing. ‒ following the meeting on 13 and 14 october on the proposal on the protection of ships against injurious pricing, the consultative group consisting of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission reached the unanimous conclusion that the proposal is a mere codification of existing texts without any particular changes. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this report. it is a codification which does not lead to any substantial change in the rules for the sale of certain types of vessels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr maštálka on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against injurious pricing in the sale of ships. i believe that the legislative simplification of the union's legislative acts is essential, given the increasing powers of the union and the proliferation of european legislation. european citizens have the right to easy and transparent access to eu law, without having to search for the legislation of interest in a number of scattered legislative texts. the consolidation of council regulation no 395/96 on unfair commercial practices in the sale of ships, on which the legal services of the three institutions have reached agreement, is a step in the right direction. formal changes that are minimal, do not change the content of the legislation, but simplify life for eu citizens and technicians working with eu law.
in writing. according to the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question is merely a codification of existing texts without any substantial changes. the subject matter of this case concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against injurious pricing practices in the sale of ships. i have therefore decided to support the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against injurious pricing in the sale of ships. the purpose of the proposal is to provide legal instruments to prevent the sale of ships at prices below normal value, in order to protect the community's principles of competition and free trade.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts, we welcome without delay this proposal on protection against injurious pricing practices in the sale of ships. the advisory group reached the unanimous conclusion that the proposal was merely a codification of existing texts and did not make any substantial changes. we therefore ask our president to forward it to the commission and the national parliaments as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the codification of provisions which have been frequently amended over time is necessary if community legislation is to be fully in line with the principles of clarity and transparency. in this connection, the purpose of the proposal is to initiate the codification of regulation (ec) no 358/96 of 29 january 1996 on protection against injurious pricing in the sale of ships. in view of the foregoing considerations and as this is a technical report which does not introduce any innovation in its content, i have decided to welcome it.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against injurious pricing in the sale of ships, since the proposal is a mere codification of existing texts without any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr mastalka on the protection against injurious pricing practices in the sale of ships, the proposal in question is merely a codification of existing texts, without any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because it is simply a codification and adaptation of previous regulations, but does not affect their content.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the protection against injurious pricing in the sale of ships, as it merely codifies existing legislation without introducing any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ the text voted on is acceptable and balanced, a good compromise that guarantees the fishing rights of french guiana, which is part of the overseas countries and territories of the european union, compared to venezuela; for these reasons i have spoken in his favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that it strikes a very good balance between the political-legal and economic aspects: it is essential that vessels flying the venezuelan flag continue to fish in the waters of the eez of french guiana, thus supporting its economy, and that the agreement conferring this right be ratified by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ fishing vessels flying the flag of venezuela have been allowed to operate in the exclusive economic zone (eez) of the french overseas department of guyana for several decades. the processing industry in french guiana depends on this fishing activity. european law requires an international fisheries agreement when issuing fishing authorisations to third country vessels in eu waters, so we are voting against the agreement. authorised vessels must comply with the provisions of the common fisheries policy (cfp) specifying, inter alia, the fish stocks that can be targeted, the type of fishing gear, vessel monitoring devices, catch reporting and the percentage of catches to be landed in ports in french guiana. the agreement allows a limited number of vessels to fish, provided that european law is respected. partnership agreements concluded by the eu with third countries must respect the sustainability principles that our community has set itself when adopting the common fisheries policy. the european parliament can act as the guardian of the cfp as a co-legislator in the approval of these agreements, thanks to the court of justice's ruling on this partnership in november 2014.
in writing. - i vote for it. the measure should be effective in limiting illegal fishing by venezuelan vessels.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision approving the declaration on the granting of fishing opportunities in eu waters to venezuelan fishing vessels off the coast of french guiana. the landing and processing of fishery products is an important source of resources and jobs for french guiana, but cooperation with venezuela needs to be in line with the requirements of the union legal order. in this context, the commission has put forward a proposal in which the european union commits itself to transferring fishing rights to venezuelan vessels, which is an option appropriate to the small size of the fishery in question. after a period of suspension due to the judicial procedure before the court of justice of the european union, and a resolution of an institutional conflict, its approval is therefore necessary. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this practice, which has been in use for many years and has been confirmed without creating any particular problems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting fishing opportunities in eu waters to vessels flying the flag of venezuela off the coast of french guiana. the processing industry established in french guiana is partly dependent on the exploitation by venezuelan vessels of the biological natural resources of its exclusive economic zone (eez). given the economic and social importance of the activity in the region, these vessels have been authorised to fish for several decades, provided that a certain proportion of the catch is landed in local ports. the landing and processing of fishery products is therefore an important source of resources and jobs for french guiana. however, since the eu has no international fisheries agreement with venezuela, cooperation with that country is not in line with the requirements of the union legal order. in practice, however, the activity of venezuelan fishing vessels is authorized. the european union is committed to transferring fishing rights to venezuelan vessels in the present proposal submitted by the commission.
in writing. ‒ the vote in favour of allowing vessels from the bolivarian republic of venezuela to fish in the eez of french guiana is based on a strictly economic principle: fishery products are a primary source of resources for french guiana. in order to make this agreement binding not only in practice but also in legislation, and since the european union does not yet have a formal agreement with venezuela, i am in favour of preparing a formal proposal for cooperation and exploitation of the fish stocks off the coast of french guiana. in practice, venezuelan fishing vessels are allowed to operate, but the rights and duties of the respective actors should be clearly and transparently stated. this shall be done through the conclusion of an agreement between the republic of venezuela and the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr ferreira's recommendation, since it essentially concerns the conclusion of an agreement between french guiana and venezuelan vessels, giving the latter the right to fish in the exclusive economic zone (eez). although there is no international fisheries agreement with venezuela, the landing and processing of fishery products is a source of resources and job creation for french guiana. in addition, venezuelan vessels, which have been authorized to fish in these waters for several decades, have always respected the condition of surrendering a certain quota of catches by landing them in local ports.
in writing. ‒ for several decades, some venezuelan fishing vessels have been authorised to fish off the coast of french guiana, provided that a certain proportion of their catches is landed in local ports. this practice is of enormous economic and social importance for the region, as the landing and processing of fishery products is a source of resources and jobs. since the european union has no international fisheries agreement with venezuela, cooperation with that country has never been in line with the requirements of the union legal order. that is why i voted in favour of the european commission's proposal to give up fishing rights to venezuelan vessels.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this report. the measure in question is aimed at restricting illegal fishing by venezuelan vessels in the waters of french guiana.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr joão ferreira on the possibility of fishing in eu waters by vessels flying the flag of venezuela off the coast of french guiana. with this proposal for a report, the european union has committed itself to transferring fishing rights to venezuelan vessels, taking into account that in practice venezuelan fishing vessels have been authorized to operate for several decades and given the economic importance of fishing in this region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the draft council decision approving, on behalf of the european union, the declaration on the granting of fishing opportunities in eu waters to vessels flying the flag of the bolivarian republic of venezuela in the exclusive economic zone off the coast of french guiana. in this connection, account is taken of the fact that fishing and the processing of fishery products in this region play an important economic and social role.
in writing. ‒ the processing industry in french guiana benefits substantially from the exploitation by venezuelan vessels of the biological natural resources in its exclusive economic zone (eez). given the economic and social importance of the activity within the region, these vessels have been authorised to fish for several decades. however, this situation is not adequately regulated. the european union has not concluded any international fisheries agreement with venezuela, at least for the time being. to remedy this shortcoming, the european commission has put forward a proposal in which the european union commits itself to transferring fishing rights to venezuelan vessels. i have decided to vote in favour of the text of the recommendation because i think it would be desirable to have a proper legal framework set up in this specific context.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this draft resolution because it is necessary, since the processing industry established in french guiana depends in part on the exploitation by venezuelan vessels of the biological natural resources of its exclusive economic zone. given the economic and social importance of the activity in the region, venezuelan fishing vessels have been allowed to fish for several decades, provided that a certain share of the catch was landed in french guiana ports. in the absence of international agreements between the european union and venezuela on fisheries, we strongly support this measure which intelligently aims to create a framework for the regulation of this practice. as the european union, we therefore commit ourselves to granting fishing rights to venezuelan vessels, provided that they comply with community legislation on the conservation and management of fish stocks, with particular reference to the regulatory framework of the common fisheries policy (cfp). it was also important in our agreement to the measure that the resolution would have no financial implications for the community budget.
in writing. ‒ the processing industry in french guiana depends in part on the exploitation by venezuelan vessels of the biological natural resources of its exclusive economic zone (eez). given the economic and social importance of the activity in the region, these vessels have been authorised to fish for several decades, provided that a certain proportion of the catch is landed in local ports. landing and processing of fishery products is therefore an important source of resources and jobs for french guiana. however, as the eu has no international fisheries agreement with venezuela, cooperation with that country is not in line with the requirements of the union legal order. in this context, the commission has put forward a proposal in which the european union commits itself to transferring fishing rights to venezuelan vessels. in the light of the foregoing, i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ given the economic and social importance of the activity in the region, these vessels have been authorised to fish for several decades, provided that a certain proportion of the catch is landed in local ports. i am in favour of this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal on 'fishing opportunities in eu waters for venezuelan-flagged fishing vessels off the coast of french guiana', in which the european union commits itself to granting fishing rights to venezuelan vessels. the exploitation by these vessels of the biological natural resources of the exclusive economic zone (eez) of french guiana is the main source of the processing industry established in this area. as the eu has no international fisheries agreement with venezuela, cooperation with that country is not in line with the union's legal order, and the present proposal aims to regulate this situation, even though in practice fishing vessels are still allowed to operate.
in writing. ‒ for several decades, vessels flying the flag of venezuela have been authorised to operate in the exclusive economic zone of the french overseas department of guyana. the european union, however, has never concluded an international fisheries agreement with venezuela. the council statement, which parliament approved, does not merely grant fishing opportunities to venezuelan vessels but provides an international basis for making access to resources conditional on financial compensation and for requiring the vessels concerned to comply with a series of measures for the conservation and management of fish stocks, as well as other european legislation such as the landing obligation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector in french guiana is not affected by the crisis.
in writing. ‒ the report by mrs gardiazabal rubial is balanced and acceptable, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe it is important that surpluses from previous budgets be carried over to the current budget in order to allow the correct and full use of the union's resources.
in writing. - i vote for it. the entry in the balance sheet of the surplus of the previous year is itself a technical fact. the very low rate of under-implementation underlines the ongoing payment appropriations shortfall, which will remain one of the main challenges for the implementation of the 2015 budget. parliament regretted the council's tendency not to honour its commitments to the needy countries which fulfil the conditions for the mobilisation of the eusf by unblocking additional resources, as provided for in the special instruments, and to decide instead to withdraw funds from other programmes. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries.
in writing. ‒ this is the amending budget, the purpose of which is to enter in the 2015 budget the surplus resulting from the implementation of the 2014 financial year. this is eur 1435 million, mainly from a positive surplus on the revenue side. i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft amending budget which aims to enter in the budget the surplus resulting from the implementation of the implementation of the 2014 financial year, which amounts to eur 1435 million.
in writing. ‒ my vote in favour of correcting and entering the surplus for the 2014 financial year in the 2015 budget is supported by the fact that the balance figures are in line with those for previous years. the commission also notes that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. the accounting of the surplus is useful in reducing the amount that italy has to pay to the european union to finance its budget. the budget is the heart of the union's system: directly or indirectly all of us benefit from eu-funded activities. economic growth, employment, social and cultural cohesion are all central to the community's philosophy and principles and are difficult to achieve without a multiannual economic plan.
in writing. ‒ this is just a small technical adjustment with the entry in the budget of the surplus of the previous year, which i regard as positive.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for an amending budget as it aims to enter in the budget the surplus resulting from the implementation of the 2014 financial year. in particular, this draft amending budget (dab) no 3/2015, submitted by the commission, aims solely to record the surplus resulting from the implementation of the financial year 2014, amounting to eur 1,435 billion, in accordance with article 18 of the financial regulation and the council's position.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the commission proposal to the council concerning draft amending budget no 3/2015 concerning the entry in the budget of the surplus resulting from the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014. the commission has entered the surplus of the 2014 budget in that budget. i thought it appropriate to support the commission's proposal, hoping for a dynamic and rapid solution, since the accounting of the surplus will imply a corresponding reduction in the overall contribution of the member states to the financing of the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 3/2015 aims to enter in the 2015 budget the surplus resulting from the implementation of the 2014 financial year, amounting to eur 1,435 billion. i have decided to vote in favour of this report, aware that the adoption of the budget will reduce the amount of contributions that the member states will have to pay to the community budget.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this draft amending budget for the surplus resulting from the implementation of the previous year's budget. this surplus, estimated at eur 1.435 billion, is due to eur 1.183 billion in increased revenue, eur 142 million in reduced expenditure and eur 110 million in exchange rate differences. our support is based on the fact that this figure will be used positively to lighten the various contributions of the member states to the european union for 2015. this measure will also be closely linked from a political point of view to draft amending budget no 4/2015 which will allow for a better use of the european union solidarity fund in favour of romania, bulgaria and italy, whose populations were affected in 2014 by natural disasters, specifically by severe flooding.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget (dab) no 3/2015 aims to enter in the budget the surplus resulting from the implementation of the financial year 2014. as the adoption of this draft will reduce the share of member states' gni-based contributions to the union budget by eur 1 435 million and will therefore largely offset their contribution to the financing of draft amending budget no 4/2015, i considered it appropriate to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ whereas draft amending budget no 3/2015 aims to enter in the 2015 budget the surplus resulting from the implementation of the 2014 financial year, amounting to eur 1,435 billion, and whereas in the context of the 2015 budget negotiations the council insisted on the transfer of the payments relating to the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) in draft amending budgets no 5/2014 and no 7/2014 to the 2015 budget for a total amount of eur 126,7 million, i express my favourable opinion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budget (dab) no 3/2015 which aims to enter in the budget the surplus resulting from the implementation of the 2014 financial year. the implementation of the previous year shows a surplus of some eur 1.435 billion, which can be transferred from one budget line to another.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 3/2015 concerns the surplus for the financial year 2014 of eur 1,435 billion to be entered in the 2015 budget. although this is a mere routine operation which should enable the commission to return this surplus to the member states in the form of a reduction in the share of contributions to be paid, the rapporteur wanted to establish a political link with draft amending budget no 4 on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund. although i am in favour of adopting both draft amending budgets, i believe that the distinction made in the financial regulation should be respected. i have therefore decided to oppose the report.
in writing. ‒ in october and november 2014, five regions of north-western italy - emilia-romagna, liguria, lombardy, piedmont and tuscany - were hit by dramatic floods that caused extensive damage and killed 11 people. this vote will provide 56 million euros for the reconstruction and support of our territories. that is why i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 4/2015 for the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is important for the union to provide aid to those areas affected by natural disasters and to show solidarity and support to its citizens in need.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour of allowing the mobilisation of the eusf for the 2014 floods in romania, bulgaria and italy (for eur 56 million).
in writing. ‒ the eusf's intervention takes the form of a grant, which supplements the public funds allocated by the beneficiary state, and is used to finance measures intended, in principle, to deal with non-insurable damage. the commission notes that the 2014 budget surplus and the related budgetary adjustment have reduced the contribution from the member states in this case.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft amending budget for the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for romania, bulgaria and italy for a total amount of eur 66.5 million. romania requested aid of around eur 8,5 million for the spring and summer 2014 floods, bulgaria requested aid of around eur 2 million for the july and august 2014 floods and italy requested aid of around eur 56 million for the october and november 2014 floods.
in writing. ‒ my vote today is in line with the commitment i have shown since the day after the flood: the eu is there and must help the affected territories. i am aware of a question put to me last autumn, and when i was told that liguria had not yet submitted the request, i warned the regional authorities at the time to give priority to the things that matter rather than to their own electoral campaigns. i was delighted when the commission then put forward this proposal, which will also benefit piedmont and lombardy and emilia romagna because of the damage they have suffered, and today i can only confirm my support for the allocation of this sum. i hope it will be put to good use.
in writing. ‒ having examined draft amending budget no 4/2015 on the solidarity fund, i have decided to cast my vote in favour. i agree with the commission's proposal to activate the solidarity fund in the cases provided for and to enter the corresponding funding in the 2015 budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 4/2015 for the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to the amount of eur 66 505 850 for the 2014 floods in romania, bulgaria and italy.
in writing. i have given a favourable opinion on draft amending budget no 4/2015 concerning the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) in the amount of eur 66 505 850. the fund also supports romania and bulgaria with eur 8 495 950 and eur 1 983 600 respectively, and provides eur 56 million for italy, whose five northern regions were hit by severe flooding the previous year. these are concrete signals that the european parliament sends to the member states and to those in difficulty because of natural disasters and catastrophes.
in writing. ‒ expresses its support for draft amending budget no 4/2015 concerning the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for the member states affected by the floods of 2014; the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. whereas the eu social fund was established to provide effective support to a member state or an acceding country facing damage caused by natural disasters; financial assistance to these regions affected by major natural disasters is considered to be of paramount importance.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund aims to support european countries affected by natural disasters. i have decided to vote in favour of this document, which provides for the granting of a financial contribution of eur 66 505 850 to romania, bulgaria and italy, which were affected by severe floods at different times in 2014, as i believe it is important that member states do not miss an opportunity to demonstrate their commitment to the principle of solidarity.
in writing. ‒ we express our support for this draft amending budget for the use of the european union solidarity fund to help people affected by natural disasters. the measure mobilises a total of eur 66.5 million for the following four areas: two floods in romania, in spring and summer 2014; flooding in bulgaria in the summer of 2014 and flooding in italy in the autumn of 2014. the commission has also decided to grant a loan of ecu 8 500 000 to romania, ecu 2 000 000 to bulgaria and ecu 56 000 000 to italy. we note, once again, with great disappointment, the tendency of the council not to honour its commitments to countries which have been affected by major disasters by mobilizing additional resources, as provided for by the special instruments, but choosing instead to withdraw funds from other programmes.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 4/2015 concerns the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) for an amount of eur 66 505 850 in commitment and payment appropriations in respect of two floods in romania in spring and summer 2014 (aid amounting to eur 8 495 950), the floods in bulgaria in july and august 2014 (aid amounting to eur 1 983 600) and the floods in italy in october and november 2014 (aid amounting to eur 56 026 300). given the urgent need to provide financial assistance from the eusf to the countries affected by these natural disasters, i have decided to support the report.
in writing. ‒ regarding the proposal to allocate funds to the states of romania, bulgaria and italy, i can only express my admiration for the work done by mr rubial, as i am aware of the discomfort that the floods have caused in my country and i hope that these funds can compensate for all the difficulties that my fellow citizens have had to face. with regard to the situation in italy and romania in spring and summer 2014 and in bulgaria following the floods in july/august 2014, i am in favour of the allocation of funds in accordance with the procedure laid down in the motion i voted for.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 4/2015 presented by the committee on budgets concerns the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) for an amount of approximately eur 66,5 million in commitment and payment appropriations in relation to emergency situations. it is through this fund that the eu effectively shows solidarity with the people of regions affected by natural disasters and calamities, not attributable to them. this year, the stakes were particularly high for italy, with €56 million of the more than €66 million allocated to romania, bulgaria and italy going to help italian regions that suffered extensive flood damage in october and november 2014. that is why i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because it concerns aid for european citizens affected by natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 4/2015 to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) for an amount of eur 66 505 850 in response to the natural disasters that severely affected romania, bulgaria and italy in 2014. between 9 october and 18 november 2014, heavy rains and consequent flooding and landslides in the regions of emilia-romagna, liguria, lombardy, piedmont and tuscany caused serious damage to public and private infrastructure, businesses, private homes and businesses and damaged the agricultural sector. i hope that the funds that will be mobilised will be a valuable support for reconstruction, helping our territories to recover and overcome the consequences of the floods they have suffered.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the draft amending budget for the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to help with reconstruction following the floods that hit romania, bulgaria and italy in 2014. the commission's proposed €66.5 million package, which has now been approved by parliament, will provide italy with over €56 million, which will be divided between piedmont, liguria, tuscany, emilia romagna and lombardy. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of emergency measures taken in response to floods, the restoration of basic infrastructure and services, the reimbursement of emergency and rescue operations and the partial recovery of disaster areas. the commission has also received comments from the italian authorities, which have confirmed that the aid is compatible with the internal market. it is now desirable that resources be transferred rapidly to the regional authorities to start the reconstruction and security plans for the territory.
in writing. ‒ we have today approved the request to mobilise the eu solidarity fund following several floods in romania, bulgaria and italy during 2014. as far as my country, italy, is concerned, these are rains, floods and landslides which affected five regions: emilia-romagna, liguria, lombardy, piedmont and tuscany, during the months of october and november. in february 2015, the italian authorities requested financial assistance from the solidarity fund. in particular in liguria, where rivers have broken embankments, flooding bridges and roads and causing serious damage to the economic and productive sectors of many cities, including genoa. the disaster killed 11 people and displaced 3,000. the most serious damage was caused in liguria, and the total amount allocated to italy was eur 56 million. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of emergency measures following floods and to help restore basic infrastructure and services, as well as to reimburse the cost of emergency and rescue operations and to partially cover the cost of rehabilitation in disaster-stricken regions.
in writing. ‒ the european union is once again doing well with these solidarity funds. this decision is welcome, as it will allow the communities affected by the severe weather of october-november 2014 to recover and be better equipped against future severe weather events. now i hope that all the money is spent correctly and accounted for in the right time, but i am sure that the work will be done correctly and in the right time, as has already happened for example with the funds allocated to my region, emilia romagna, for the earthquake of 2012.
in writing. ‒ between october and november 2014, five regions of north-western italy, emilia-romagna, liguria, lombardy, piedmont and tuscany, were hit by dramatic floods that caused extensive damage and unfortunately 11 fatalities. the text under vote allows for the allocation of eur 56 million from the eu solidarity fund to be allocated to these territories, which is why i voted in favour of the mureșan report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the solidarity fund for the floods that hit romania (spring and summer), bulgaria (summer) and italy (autumn) in 2014, causing significant damage and casualties. in the italian regions of emilia-romagna, liguria, lombardy, piedmont and tuscany, these events caused landslides and landslides, damaged private homes, agricultural activities and businesses, and caused 11 fatalities. the european commission proposes to allocate a contribution of eur 56 million to these territories. the solidarity fund, which is intended to help support the people of regions affected by natural disasters, is a good example of the solidarity and cohesion we want in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is important for the union to provide aid to those areas affected by natural disasters and to show solidarity and support to its citizens in need.
in writing. ‒ in the autumn-winter 2014 period, five regions of north-central italy (liguria, piedmont, lombardy, emilia-romagna and tuscany) were affected by severe weather events that resulted in flooding, landslides and large areas of landslides. the damage to the homes of citizens, public and private infrastructure, businesses, agricultural holdings and environmental assets in the affected areas has been very serious in economic, tourist and above all human terms, causing victims and material consequences that are difficult to resolve in the short term. the events must be viewed as one great natural catastrophe. the total direct damage, estimated at eur 2,241 million, must be added to the large indirect damage under the criteria for regional disasters, since several nuts 2 regions are affected and the damage in the five affected regions represents 1,84% of the weighted regional gdp, thus exceeding the 1,5% threshold. the european parliament must therefore immediately mobilise the european union solidarity fund, allocating sufficient resources to deal with the damage suffered and to enable the flood-affected areas to be secured.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of using the european union solidarity fund (eusf) for appropriations affecting italy for the damage caused by the dramatic floods which, in autumn 2014, affected five regions, including liguria. the amount of aid to italy will be eur 56 million.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund, in accordance with point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management (floods in romania, bulgaria and italy). under this measure, the first of its kind in 2015, italy, romania and bulgaria will receive a contribution of eur 66.5 million from the european union for the reconstruction of public and private housing and infrastructure following the severe floods experienced in 2014. the aid is covered by the european solidarity fund, set up in november 2002 to help victims of natural disasters in regions in need of financial support.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund enables the european union to provide financial support to a member state, an accession country or a region in the event of a major natural disaster. although it does not have the best possible rules, procedures and timing, it is still a useful support, which should also show the solidarity of the european union. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the floods that occurred last year in some regions of romania, bulgaria and five regions of north-western italy caused extensive damage to the territory, affecting infrastructure, businesses and homes. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this phenomenon, which has been a matter of concern to experts for several years and which requires action to mitigate its effects. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the solidarity fund so that the affected regions can receive the financial resources needed for post-flood reconstruction. since 2002, when the fund was set up, it has been used 67 times: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the eu solidarity fund following the floods in romania (spring and summer 2014), bulgaria (summer 2014) and italy (autumn 2014). after a thorough examination of the aid applications, the commission proposed the following amounts: eur 8.5 million for floods in romania, eur 2 million for bulgaria and eur 56 million for italy, where nuts 2 regions were particularly affected. the total amount of aid granted was eur 66.5 million.
in writing. ‒ the mobilisation of this fund is good news for italy. although it covers only a small part of the damage suffered, it is oxygen for the public finances of our local administrations, which will thus be able to help citizens who have suffered damage as a result of the natural disasters of last autumn. i have followed the progress of this appropriation within the limits of my mandate and i am pleased that after only a few months parliament has, with the contribution of my vote, approved the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the solidarity fund aims to enable the european union to respond effectively and efficiently to natural disasters that may occur in one or more of its member states. i therefore decided to vote in favour, considering it necessary to mobilise funds for romania, bulgaria and italy, following the disasters that have struck them.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the amended budget proposal, but more generally i believe in the solidarity fund. it is a tool to provide a rapid, efficient and flexible response to emergencies. but too often the council does not fully respect its commitments and leaves member states to deal with disasters and natural disasters of a major scale. i would like to ask the council once again to moderate the excesses of austerity and to change the policy of payments by making available as quickly as possible resources which must be used in emergencies and, by their very nature, must be made available quickly. on the other hand, we would have at our disposal an instrument which is deprived of its own principal function and, in short, unusable or useless.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for romania, bulgaria and italy, countries hit by severe floods last year. in particular, in italy, five regions (emilia romagna, liguria, lombardy, piedmont and tuscany) were affected by floods and landslides from the beginning of october 2014 until mid-november of the same year, which caused serious damage to public and private infrastructure, businesses, housing and the agricultural sector and caused 11 victims.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a european parliament resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 1/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, which accompanies the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european fund for strategic investments, amending regulations no 1291/2013 and no 1316/2013, allows the efsi to be launched, constituting the first tranche of the guarantee amounting to eur 1 360 million. this sum was raised by means of transfers from one entity to several programmes. programmes that have suffered cuts include the cef (connecting europe facility, 790 million), iter (490 million), horizon 2020 (70 million) and other smaller cuts. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the internet and to use it for their own purposes. i voted against because m5s is against the efsi approach precisely because of the way in which it raises guarantee funds.
in writing. ‒ with the images of the liguria disaster still in my mind, i voted in favour of using the eu solidarity fund for italy as well as for romania and bulgaria.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote we have given concrete help to the people of europe who have been struck by terrible natural disasters. among other things, we have also allocated some 56 million euro to italy to rebuild what was destroyed by the floods last autumn in emilia romagna, liguria, lombardy, piedmont and tuscany and to provide concrete aid to the affected families. this is the europe we want, close to the weakest and aware that the problems of one member state are the problems of all member states, which must be faced together. we hope that this approach will soon be adopted on many other issues, first and foremost immigration.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of mr muresan's report. the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond in a rapid, effective and flexible manner to emergency situations and to demonstrate its solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters. the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund following the floods in romania (spring and summer 2014), bulgaria (summer 2014) and italy (autumn 2014), on the basis of point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013. a great sign of solidarity for the citizens of europe, and in this case, for the most part, for the italian citizens of lombardy, piedmont, liguria, tuscany and emilia romagna.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the commission's proposal to mobilise the eu solidarity fund to help people affected by last year's floods in bulgaria, romania and italy. the importance of the european contribution and of a timely response to emergencies in the above geographical areas should be reiterated.
in writing. ‒ we strongly support this motion for a resolution, which is necessary to approve the commission's proposal to use the european union solidarity fund to help people affected by natural disasters. the measure in question, in line with the pbr no 4/2015, mobilises a total of eur 66,5 million, allocated to the affected populations in the following four cases: two floods in romania, in spring and summer 2014; flooding in bulgaria in the summer of 2014 and flooding in italy in the autumn of 2014. the commission has also decided to grant a loan of ecu 8 500 000 to romania, ecu 2 000 000 to bulgaria and ecu 56 000 000 to italy. this is the first mobilisation decision of 2015 and the total amount of the aid proposed above respects the ceiling for the european union solidarity fund. i would like to recall in particular the difficult situation in the regions of emilia-romagna, liguria, lombardy, piedmont and tuscany, which were hit by floods and landslides which caused serious damage to public and private infrastructure, businesses, private homes and property, and to the agricultural sector, and which caused 11 deaths. the total direct damage estimated by the italian authorities is eur 2,241 million.
in writing. ‒ this report examines the european commission's proposal to mobilise the union solidarity fund following floods in romania (spring and summer 2014), bulgaria (summer 2014) and italy (autumn 2014), on the basis of point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013. this is the first decision to mobilise the fund in 2015. the fund may allocate up to eur 895 million for the current year. in this specific case, romania, bulgaria and italy will receive €66.5 million from the eu as reconstruction aid. as these appropriations will help the three countries to repair the damage to public and private infrastructure, private homes, businesses, agriculture, the environment and cultural heritage caused by the floods, i have decided to support the report.
in writing. ‒ regarding the floods in romania, bulgaria and italy, i can only express my solidarity and my condolences for what has happened. i am in favour of the mobilisation of the solidarity fund for these peoples, who are calling for our support in a dramatic way.
in writing. ‒ by voting in favour, i wanted to reinforce the european parliament's decision to mobilise the european union solidarity fund in response to the floods in romania, bulgaria and italy. the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond in a rapid, effective and flexible manner to emergency situations, in order to show concrete solidarity with the populations of regions affected by natural disasters. i believe that the european union must be able to unleash its full potential, especially when it is confronted with the disastrous consequences of a calamity that affects european citizens in different ways.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission's proposal for budgets on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund following the floods in romania in spring-summer 2014, in bulgaria in summer 2014 and in particular in italy in autumn of the same year, on the basis of point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013. as already stated, the bulk of the funds allocated will be directed to italy (56 million out of 66.5).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because it is about allocating funds to help european citizens affected by natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for an amount of eur 66 505 850 in relation to the floods in romania, bulgaria and italy in 2014. the italian authorities estimated the total direct damage caused by the natural disaster at eur 2 241,052 million. the five regions of north-west italy (emilia-romagna, liguria, lombardy, piedmont and tuscany) affected by severe floods and landslides in autumn 2014 will be able to benefit from concrete aid to repair the extensive damage suffered.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the resolution on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to help with reconstruction following the floods that hit romania, bulgaria and italy in 2014. the commission's proposed €66.5 million package, which has now been approved by parliament, will provide italy with over €56 million, which will be divided between piedmont, liguria, tuscany, emilia romagna and lombardy. the appropriation for italy will cover part of the costs of emergency measures taken following the floods, the restoration of basic infrastructure and services, the reimbursement of the costs of emergency and rescue operations and part of the costs of rehabilitation in the disaster-stricken regions. the commission has also received comments from the italian authorities, which have confirmed that the aid is compatible with the internal market. it is now desirable that resources be transferred rapidly to the regional authorities to start the reconstruction and security plans for the territory.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the allocation of some €66 million to italy, romania and bulgaria for the 2014 floods. the mobilisation of the solidarity fund will make it possible to cover the costs of operations to restore and rebuild essential infrastructure and services in the areas affected by floods in october and november last, in italy the regions of piedmont, liguria, lombardy, tuscany and emilia romagna. this is a considerable sum which must be made available to local authorities and citizens very quickly. we have to be very careful not to allow the european union to become a victim of the economic crisis, which is a major problem in the world.
in writing. ‒ the koch report is shared and balanced. i believe that a european system aimed at eliminating the obstacles which currently exist in the field of public transport would encourage our citizens to be more mobile and to use public transport more easily to travel throughout europe, and for these reasons i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to support this resolution by voting in favour of it because i believe that the introduction of integrated multimodal tickets valid throughout europe would be a major innovation that would bring immense benefits to both passengers and the economy.
in writing. - i vote for it. more than a shareable report highlighting the importance of information, planning and ticketing services for multimodal travel at union level, in particular: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on integrated multimodal ticketing in europe. in this resolution parliament stressed the benefits to users of the single ticket for a 'multimodal journey' using different modes of transport. the advantage of being able to use integrated ticketing systems would also attract more passengers to public transport, increasing the use of public transport. it is currently too difficult to obtain tickets for crossborder travel, particularly when these include different modes of transport, such as trains and buses. in the modern online society, it is therefore necessary to be able to issue more integrated tickets to make life easier for travellers. providers of transport services and of itinerary planning services should therefore further develop existing synergies, for example by providing multi-modal and cross-border travel itinerary planning services, and the commission should work to put in place the necessary measures to support and facilitate such efforts.
in writing. ‒ despite efforts already made, target 22 of the 2011 white paper, which aims to ensure seamless door-to-door multimodal travel using intelligent, multimodal and interoperable systems for timetable search, information, online booking and ticketing, has not yet been achieved. the report by mr dieter-lebrecht koch therefore aims to implement an integrated multimodal transport system in europe by improving information, planning and ticketing services for multimodal transport. by receiving comprehensive information, the traveller should be able to choose a personalised travel solution that represents the most sustainable, fast or economically viable alternative with a single ticket. in the light of the foregoing, i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal on the issue of integrated multimodal tickets in europe. the objective is to provide comprehensive information at union level on the travel offers of public and private companies operating in the air, rail, sea and road transport sectors, thereby enabling travellers to benefit from a multimodal, cross-border and seamless travel solution. by receiving comprehensive information, the traveller should be able to choose, book and pay online for a personalised travel solution that is the most sustainable, fast or cost-effective alternative and to travel with a single ticket, regardless of the number of modes of transport used during the journey.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that creating an integrated and multimodal ticketing system in europe is an important goal to be achieved in order to allow citizens to move around more easily, accessing more accurate and effective travel information. thanks to the single market and the free movement of persons, union citizens and visitors from third countries are increasingly faced with transnational travel using different means of transport. unfortunately, the information available is often tied to commercial agreements between the different private companies and is often restricted to regional or local level. the union's institutions therefore have a duty to encourage private airlines to coordinate more efficiently, so as to facilitate travellers' movements and at the same time increase tourism and hence economic growth. in addition, achieving this objective will help to tackle traffic problems such as congestion and pollution by encouraging the use of public transport. i therefore believe that the possibility of travelling using an integrated multimodal ticket is the first step towards an improvement in the conditions of travellers which will have a positive effect on the economy, tourism and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report by mr koch, who has identified a number of essential points for improving the integration of services between the different modes of transport. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states. to date, given the inefficiency of some modes of transport, citizens continue to prefer individual transport. to remedy this problem, citizens should be given the opportunity to obtain comprehensive, accurate and neutral information on both timetables and availability of multimodal and crossborder transport links, in the context of facilitated travel, while also offering high standards of comfort, booking and purchasing tickets in electronic form. another crucial area that will need to be improved is equal access without barriers for all, people with disabilities or reduced mobility, the elderly and vulnerable people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report by the european parliament is based on the need to be able to travel with a single ticket, which allows the use of different means of transport for a so-called door-to-door journey. in 2011, the european commission, in its white paper on transport, expressed the need to create a single travel document covering all modes of transport from long to short distances. despite the priorities it had set, we are still far from achieving this project. that is why i voted in favour of this proposal from the european parliament which aims to promote a single transport document. this will require the commission to submit a proposal calling on providers to make all the necessary information available on a fair and supportive basis and to create a platform at european level to facilitate cooperation between stakeholders.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report which stresses the importance of information services and which aims to remove the current obstacles.
in writing. ‒ the transport sector is a key sector for the eu, from the point of view of the economy and employment but also from the point of view of integration between member states. this report provides several ideas for the possible modernisation of this sector, with multimodal tickets valid for air, rail, sea and road transport, with both public and private operators. the aim is therefore to make cross-border transport between all member states easier, whatever the means used. this will benefit consumers economically and organisationally, and the increased synergies between private and public operators and between local and national authorities will also have a positive impact on energy efficiency. in the light of these considerations, i voted in favour of the koch report.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr koch's report. the proposal stresses the importance for users of a single ticket for each multimodal journey and considers that fair and equal access to traffic and multimodal travel data, i.e. the provision of complete, easily accessible, neutral, reliable and real-time information to travellers, is an essential prerequisite for integrated ticketing systems. it also called on the commission to develop a database of good practice on projects implemented at local, regional or national level, which would serve as a basis for the implementation of such projects throughout the eu.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report on the issue of integrated multimedia tickets in europe. the purpose of the report is to provide travellers with clear and transparent information on prices and booking systems. considering that the majority of travellers continue to prefer individual transport, an integrated cross-border approach is an indispensable prerequisite in terms of citizens' mobility and movement, as well as a system for planning convenient and simple itineraries for the union and for visitors from third countries, while respecting the freedoms enshrined in the union's legal framework.
in writing. ‒ the report refers to the possibility of issuing integrated multimodal tickets in europe. the document is based on objective 22 of the 2011 white paper, which emphasises the need to ensure smooth multimodal travel through intelligent systems. i have supported this report because i believe that the possibility of a comprehensive and systematic service in this area would create better conditions for european travellers.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this draft resolution as a necessary step to intelligently address some of the issues of sustainability, cost-effectiveness, energy efficiency and eco-compatibility, and at the same time to respond to congestion and other traffic problems. we believe that a suitable response to all these problems can be provided by information, planning and ticketing services for multimodal travel at community level. the multi-modality element facilitates mobility and travel while strengthening tourism and thus the economy; promote greater integration of transport modes and more efficient use of existing infrastructure; enable information to be provided to travellers with disabilities or reduced mobility; stimulates the use of real-time information to adapt to traffic disruptions and also strengthens europe's industrial and research base. the multi-modality element and its benefits will make a significant contribution to the achievement of a single european transport area and a single european market.
in writing. ‒ the long-term objective of this proposal is to provide comprehensive information at union level on the travel offers of public and private companies operating in the air, rail, sea and road transport sectors, thereby enabling travellers to benefit from a multimodal and cross-border travel solution. by receiving comprehensive information, the traveller should be able to choose, book and pay online for a personalised travel solution that is the most sustainable, fastest or cost-effective choice and to travel on a single ticket, regardless of the number of modes of transport used during the journey. i therefore voted in favour of the report, considering that the mobility of citizens within the union is an essential condition for the exercise of fundamental freedoms and that citizens should therefore be able to obtain comprehensive, accurate and neutral information.
in writing. ‒ considering that the majority of travellers still prefer individual transport and that the creation of travel itinerary planning services at union level will not in itself be sufficient to improve the integration of transport modes, i express my opinion in favour of the issuing of integrated multimodal tickets in europe
in writing. ‒ mobility is a fundamental part of modern life that is not limited to national borders. ticketing planning requires an integrated european approach, in line with the european transport policy and the roadmap for the eu-wide delivery of information on multimodal mobility and ticketing planning already presented by the commission. i believe that greater integration of the different modes of transport is needed to make mobility more efficient. online information, electronic booking and payment systems that integrate all modes of transport should facilitate and promote multimodal mobility. in the light of these considerations, i have decided to support this proposal by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the tran committee, i strongly supported and voted in favour of the report by mr koch, which, being an own-initiative report, is intended to invite the european commission to come forward with a legislative proposal in this area. the tourism sector must be considered as one of the driving forces of the european economy and facilitating travel within the old continent is one of the means of promoting our magnificent countries, in addition to the potential benefit in terms of circulation with a careful eye also to respect for the environment. the report focuses on information systems, hoping that multimodal ticketing will be possible in the future: a single ticket for multiple journeys, including different means of transport within the eu. better information sharing will enable european citizens to organise their travels better and move from one place to another without undue difficulty. the report identifies the creation of a single platform at european level as the tool through which all local and regional authorities will be able to enter details of the means of transport under their responsibility. the sharing of information can be a first real step towards improving the mobility of all people transiting our continent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which highlights the importance of information, planning and ticketing services for multimodal travel at union level.
in writing. ‒ the introduction of information, planning and ticketing services for multimodal travel at european level could help to reduce transport sustainability, energy efficiency and traffic problems. at present, given the high fragmentation of the european market, travellers are not informed in a comprehensive and real-time manner about the travel alternatives (air, rail, sea and road) offered by public and private operators. it is therefore important that adequate european financial support is first guaranteed to promote innovation in this area and to address, through new technological solutions, the many difficulties in the provision of these services across the eu. in order to gradually introduce interoperable electronic ticketing systems throughout the union, i think that the starting point should be the establishment of a platform for the exchange of information and good practice involving operators throughout the eu. however, caution should be exercised in setting specific time targets for the installation of intelligent systems for the transmission of real-time information in all local public transport. i have therefore decided to abstain from the final vote, as i have some doubts about the approach taken by the report on this and other points.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the issue of integrated multimodal tickets in europe, which highlights the benefits for users of being able to buy a single ticket for a 'multimodal journey', i.e. combining different modes of transport. the text suggests the introduction of an integrated ticket for travelling across eu borders, allowing for the use of various types of transport, thus increasing the attractiveness of public transport. in addition to making life easier for travellers, the integration of information, travel planning and ticketing services could be a response to the challenges posed by the european transport sector (such as sustainability, multimodality, improving safety in all modes of transport, efficiency, creating quality jobs), benefiting the economy, society and the environment. in this resolution we therefore call on the commission to take the necessary measures to support and improve the existing synergies between different transport and route planning service providers, for example through multi-modal and cross-border travel route planning services. it is hoped that the advantage of being able to use integrated ticketing systems will attract more passengers to public transport.
in writing. ‒ european transport policy must address key issues such as sustainability, cost-effectiveness, energy efficiency and traffic congestion, which is why i believe it is essential to support all information, planning and ticketing services for multimodal travel at union level. integrated information services enable greater mobility, reduce traffic congestion through more efficient use of public transport and alternative means of transport such as bicycle rental or car-sharing. greater support for such technologies must be ensured through existing research programmes and the completion of the digital single market also to consolidate the european industrial base. i fully share the emphasis in this report on the end user and the expected social benefits, the objective of the european institutions is to reduce the environmental impact and increase the safety of transport, including through the provision of information adapted to the needs of all travellers, including disabled people. a final point of note in this report is the emphasis on fair and non-discriminatory market access and a clear definition of end-user rights: consumer protection, data protection and privacy are essential issues for all european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the report we adopted today aims to implement an integrated multimodal transport system in europe by improving information services, planning and the distribution of multimodal tickets. the long-term objective is to enable travellers to choose, book and pay online for a personalised travel solution that is the most sustainable, fast or cost-effective alternative and to travel with a single ticket, regardless of the number of modes of transport used during the journey. the implementation of such information systems is certainly an important step forward for travellers who increasingly use the internet and smartphones. a key step towards a sustainable, citizen-centred transport system for safe, efficient and effective urban mobility.
in writing. ‒ the non-binding resolution adopted today by a large majority in the european parliament is a first step in the right direction to enable european citizens in the near future to buy a single ticket for a 'multimodal journey' using different modes of transport. an integrated ticket for travelling across eu borders that allows for the use of multiple modes of transport could also increase the use of public transport, with clear environmental benefits. i hope that the technological advances of recent years will soon enable this project to be implemented, which is primarily intended to make life easier for travellers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of extending the mandate of the special committee on tax rulings set up in the wake of the luxleaks scandal involving luxembourg and juncker.
in writing. - i vote for it. the commission is also proposing to extend the mandate of the special committee set up in the wake of the luxleaks scandal involving luxembourg and juncker.
in writing. ‒ following the luxleaks scandal involving luxembourg and the current president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, over the tax ruling practices of the member states, the european parliament decided on 12 february to set up a special committee, taxe, initially for a period of six months. today we voted to extend his mandate for a few months.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of extending the mandate of the special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect. under rule 197 of the rules of procedure, entitled 'establishment of special committees', parliament, on a proposal from the conference of presidents, is to set up special committees whose term of office may not exceed 12 months, unless parliament extends that period when it expires.
in writing. ‒ the extension of the special committee on tax ruling was approved without a vote. it is felt that he may need more time, given the sensitive subject matter he is dealing with. under rule 197 of the rules of procedure, the term of office of these special committees, which is linked to specific tasks, fixed at the same time as their constitution, may not exceed 12 months, unless parliament extends this period when it expires. i would like to stress my support for this extension.
in writing. ‒ i am of course in favour of extending the mandate of the taxe committee, whose task has been and will be to shed light on the tax practices of all the member states and to examine the ways of combating unfair tax practices and tax evasion in the european union. the task of this special committee, set up in january 2015, seems crucial in the context of a monetary union which, in reality, is very different and in which corruption and evasion seem to be the norm. as a side note, i would add that it would have been ironic to discuss the outcome of this special committee during the luxembourg presidency, a country which is the symbol of a major financial scandal because of events engineered under the jucker presidency.
in writing. ‒ i confirm my support for the extension of the mandate of this special committee which was set up in the wake of the luxleaks scandal.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour of extending the mandate of the 'special committee on advance taxation decisions' because it is necessary to monitor carefully that member states do not implement special tax regimes to favour large companies. i hope that the committee will be able to operate without outside influence and that the member states will cooperate without hindrance.
in writing. ‒ following the negative vote in the plenary on 24 june on the efsi (european fund for strategic investments), we voted today on amending budget no 1. this budget will make it possible to launch the efsi, thanks to the first guarantee tranche of eur 1360 million. both in the committee on budgets and in the house we are opposed to the approach taken. the guarantee funds were replenished by subtracting resources from the following european funds: the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. it is not acceptable that the choice of reimbursement of these funds is not certain, the text only stresses that everything possible will be done to reimburse them in the near future. we do not believe that reducing the funds allocated to european programmes, which are already structured, is the best way to establish a new investment project. for the reasons stated, we have voted against.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 1/2015 on the european fund for strategic investments is the direct consequence of the approval of the efsi at the last plenary session; i am therefore voting against this report today to reiterate my opposition to the efsi.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i am a supporter of the european fund for strategic investments and i believe that it is a key instrument for boosting growth in the european union.
in writing. - i vote against it. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the training of staff and the purchase of equipment and tools for the management of the european parliament's delegations. this is not 'fresh' money but money drawn mainly from horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility (cef). the vote against the efsi is confirmed.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 1/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, section iii - commission, accompanying the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and amending regulations (eu) no 1291/2013 and (eu) no 1316/2013. that report, by adopting amending budget no 1/2015 as amended by the council in line with the efsi legislative agreement, gave the green light for the efsi to become operational as soon as possible. i am therefore pleased to note that the community institutions were able to reach agreement on the efsi in a short time. i now hope that this instrument will be able to address the endemic lack of investment in the european union by putting it back at the centre of community policies to increase the competitiveness of the member states.
in writing. ‒ this is the first amending budget to give the efsi a head start. it is expected that a large part of the resources will be sourced from programmes such as cef and iter and, to a lesser extent, from horizon 2020 and others. the purpose of the funds themselves is to finance the european investment advisory board, a body which does not need to be set up at great expense, as we have said before. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft amending budget for the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). the draft fund regulation provides for the creation of an eu guarantee fund which can be used to pay the european investment bank (eib) in the event of recourse to the eu guarantee. the amount of the guarantee fund will be progressively increased until the target of eur 8 billion is reached, i.e. 50% of the total eu guarantee (eur 16 billion). the appropriations in the eu general budget will be introduced gradually by 2020.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 1/2015 as it allows for the creation of a structure in the eu budget to cover the allocation of the guarantee fund in 2015. i believe that the efsi is an important step towards a real economic recovery in europe. this vote will allow for a redistribution of eur 1360 million in commitment appropriations to the guarantee fund in 2015 and in addition will allow for the transfer of eur 10 million in payment appropriations to finance the european investment advisory hub and the european investment project portal. i therefore welcome the fact that the institutions have been determined to reach an agreement in a short time, as this will ensure that the efsi is operational as soon as possible. this fund aims to attract investments that will benefit the real economy over the next three years and is the heart of president juncker's investment plan. we must therefore ensure that the implementation process is not hindered and, if anything, do our part so that it can be operational as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the draft amending budget aims to amend the nomenclature of the 2015 budget in order to ensure the operational capacity of the european investment fund. at the same time, it ensures that the financial envelope of the 2015 guarantee fund is covered by the necessary allocation of appropriations. i therefore welcome this proposal and have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ following the political agreement on the efsi regulation reached between the european parliament and the council, the latvian presidency proposed to amend draft amending budget (dab) no 1/2015. the amendments are intended to create a coverage of the guarantee fund allocation in 2015. for these reasons i voted in favour of the proposal to amend the draft amending budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the budgetary change following the approval of the efsi. as already noted, this is money drawn mainly from horizon 2020 and cef.
in writing. ‒ i voted yes to this draft budget as it was necessary and complementary to the vote of approval of the efsi at the last plenary. we have high hopes for this instrument and hope that it will really mark the beginning of european policies which are specifically aimed at boosting european competitiveness and employment.
in writing. i gave my favourable opinion to this report which reiterates the role of the union budget in creating added value by pooling resources and ensuring a high level of synergy between the european structural and investment funds and the efsi, while strengthening the multiplier effect of eu funds. the amount of the fund will be gradually increased until it reaches the target of eur 8 billion, or 50% of the total eu guarantee. the juncker plan is an investment plan that will help us to get back on track after the crisis, to invest in infrastructure and to create jobs, especially for our young people.
in writing. ‒ the draft amending budget no 1/2015 concerning the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) is endorsed. the draft budget in question arises from the need to make appropriate changes to the budget classification and to provide for the reallocation of eur 1 360 million in commitment appropriations to the guarantee fund and eur 10 million in payment appropriations for the financing of investment advice. the vote confirms the need to support strategic investments to promote innovation and the eu's competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the report by mr gardiazabal rubial, aware of the importance of the funds in question for research and transport. the commission has also proposed that the guarantee fund be increased gradually to reach the target of eur 8 billion and that conditions for greater security be created.
in writing. ‒ we take note of the draft amending budget and welcome the fact that it was possible to reach an agreement on the efsi quickly, thanks to the determination of all the institutions, in order to ensure its operational status as soon as possible. we regret the negative impact on the two major community programmes in the field of research and cross-border transport (horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility). we believe that the eu budget should create added value by pooling resources and ensuring a high level of synergy between the european structural and investment funds. we therefore support the mobilisation of additional sources of private and public finance to support investment in objectives of european scope, in particular to address cross-border challenges in areas such as energy, the environment and transport infrastructure. we therefore welcome the decision to mobilise an additional amount of eur 1 billion, compared to the commission's initial proposal, through the margins available in the 2014/2015 budgets, thus reducing the reallocation of the two abovementioned programmes. investments in research and transport are essential to strengthen and stimulate growth, competitiveness and employment and to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. ‒ on 26 november 2014, the commission proposed an investment plan for europe aimed at mobilising at least eur 315 billion of additional investment over the next three years. to this end, a new european fund for strategic investments (efsi) has been set up in partnership between the commission and the european investment bank (eib). the efsi provides for the creation of a guarantee fund which can be used to pay the eib in the event of recourse to the eu guarantee. the amount of the guarantee fund will be gradually increased until it reaches the target of eur 8 billion, i.e. 50% of the total eu guarantee (eur 16 billion). the payment appropriations in the general budget of the union will be phased in by 2020. in the light of the foregoing, i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in the light of the information that the commission intends to compensate for the reduction in iter appropriations by increasing them in an equivalent way in the period 2018-2020 and that the allocation for the european investment advisory hub, amounting to eur 10 million in commitment appropriations and the same amount in payment appropriations, comes entirely from reallocation from the iter budget line (08 04 01 02).
in writing. ‒ i wanted to support this report by voting in favour of this draft budget, which introduces changes to the budget nomenclature for the efsi (by creating new budget lines) and provides for the resources needed to endow the efsi guarantee fund in 2015. this money will be redistributed mainly between the connecting europe facility (eur 790 million) and the community programme horizon 2020 (eur 70 million) which i believe are important tools to fuel economic growth and improve the living standards of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), also known as the juncker plan, is the focal point of the current european commission's economic policy. the commission has already given the green light for the implementation of this plan at the last plenary session in brussels. the amendment to the union's 2015 budget following the entry into force of the efsi was tabled at the strasbourg plenary session and i voted in favour of it. the aim of the efsi is to stimulate private investors by using part of the european budget to guarantee the most risky or least attractive investments. the 2015 budget has been decided to reallocate eur 1,360 million in commitment appropriations to the guarantee fund and eur 10 million in payment appropriations to finance the european investment advisory hub and the european investment project portal.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because the efsi has the structural limit of taking resources from other european funds (e.g. horizon 2020).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 1/2015, which aims to create the budgetary structure necessary to feed the guarantee of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). the total amount of eur 1 350 million in commitment appropriations will therefore be reallocated from the budget lines of the connecting europe facility (eur 790 million), horizon 2020 (eur 70 million) and iter (eur 490 million). let us hope that the efsi will now begin to bear fruit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft amending budget for the european fund for strategic investments because i believe it will be an important driver for the development of the european production system. the juncker plan starts from the fact that the sharp reduction in investment in the union - amounting to some eur 2 trillion - resulting from the crisis in financial markets and the banking sector after 2008 and the simultaneous crisis of public finances in a number of countries and regions, has been a major factor in the growth of the union's economy. the revolution in the plan lies in the new growth model it contains, articulated around strategic priorities for future investment in the european economic and productive fabric, in particular in crucial sectors with a higher social impact, such as education, renewable energy and digital, and benefiting the areas most affected by the crisis. priority will be given to projects which meet the additionality criterion, i.e. those projects which would not have been financed without the plan, either because of a lack of resources or because they present a too high risk profile. while not the final solution to the serious problems facing our economy, in an age of austerity and austerity dogma, the efsi is an important attempt to boost growth and employment.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on amending budget no 1, which should allow the efsi to get underway and constitute the first tranche of the guarantee of eur 1360 million, through substantial transfers from programmes such as the cef (connecting european facility) and iter, and to a lesser extent from horizon 2020 and others. i would like to add that 10 million is being paid for the establishment and organisation of the european investment advisory hub, a facility provided for by the efsi which i personally find rather superfluous. the text also indicates that efforts will be made in the annual budgetary procedures to make up the cuts made to these programmes (cef and horizon), but there is no guarantee at present that this option is really viable. i am opposed to the efsi approach, partly because of the way in which the guarantee funds were found, which are targeting programmes considered by the european commission itself as strategic. it is for all these reasons that i voted against.
in writing. i voted against the draft amending budget because it provides for the first guarantee tranche of eur 1 360 million to start the efsi, which we have already declared ourselves against. in addition, the manoeuvre recovers resources on other very important chapters for us through a diversion from programmes such as cef (connecting european facility, minus 700 million in commitments) and iter (minus 500 million in commitments), and to a lesser extent from horizon 2020 and others. in addition, 10 million are foreseen in payments for the start-up and organisation of the european investment advisory hub, a structure envisaged by the efsi and which we consider to be superfluous. finally, although the text does indicate that efforts will be made in the annual budgetary procedures to make up the cuts made to these programmes (cef and horizon), there is no guarantee that this will actually be done.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 5/2015 which re-allocates existing resources to the management of migration and refugee flows in the mediterranean. the text as a whole is acceptable, even if it represents only an economic piece of the eu's contribution to uncontrolled migration from africa to italy and certainly does not contain the solutions i would like, such as a permanent halt to the migration phenomenon.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i strongly believe that it is important for the union to show true solidarity and help the states on the front line of the migration emergency and the individuals who land on our shores in search of a better life.
in writing. - i vote for it. this is an increase, through a reallocation of existing resources, of eu appropriations for managing migration and refugee flows following the recent tragedies in the mediterranean and the increase in the size of migratory flows. overall: commitments +76 million; payments +70 million, deducted from the galileo programme. the asylum, migration and integration fund is the main beneficiary. the increase for frontex, intended in particular for triton and poseidon, amounts to 27 million in commitments and payments, resulting partly from additional appropriations in the rdp no 5/2015 and partly from a reallocation within chapter 18 02 (internal security), due to the closure of old files under the external borders fund.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report to increase the funding to meet the real needs of managing migration flows in the mediterranean basin. the three agencies dealing with the management of migration flows to the eu and two eu funds for migration policies will receive an extra €69.6 million for additional staff and other expenditure this year. the european asylum support office and the european police office (europol) should be given more staff, while the two main sources of funding related to immigration, namely the asylum and integration fund for foreigners (amif) and the internal affairs fund (isf), should receive additional commitment appropriations. i welcome the fact that the frontex agency can raise 26.8 million, thus tripling the funds available for operations triton and poseidon.
in writing. ‒ this budgetary adjustment was presented by the european commission in may to respond to the growing migratory pressures, which particularly affected italy during the first months of the year. the appropriations provided for amount to some 75 million in commitments and 70 million in payments; the commission will be able to use the funds from the european regional development fund to finance the implementation of the programme.
in writing. ‒ the amendment no 5 to the general budget of the european union voted today in the chamber is only the first economic response of the union to the increasing migratory pressure at the external borders. the allocation of eur 75,7 million shared between the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif), the internal security fund (isf), the specialised agencies: frontex, the european asylum support office (easo) and europol is intended to provide additional resources for the current year. the appropriation is to be considered as a basis for future appropriations only. i consider the support and coordination work that the european specialized agencies are carrying out together with the authorities of the member states most affected by the migratory flows to be essential. i hope that this commitment will be confirmed next year too, and that is why i voted in favour of the adjustment of the budget for 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft amending budget to strengthen the union's resources for managing migration and flows following the recent tragedies in the mediterranean sea. the increase in commitment appropriations is eur 75 million and the increase in payment appropriations is eur 69 million.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 5/2015 because the recent explosion of the migratory phenomenon, the increase in tragedies in the southern mediterranean and the evident difficulties in managing this situation so far make it imperative to make a greater effort to coordinate and administer this difficult situation. i also believe that, given the apparent demographic imbalance between the countries of the union and those bordering on it, these migratory flows are unlikely to diminish in the short term. a poor management of this emergency could therefore weaken other economic sectors already in difficulty due to the crisis. i therefore welcome the commitment made by the european institutions to increase the appropriations allocated to the emergency management. unfortunately, despite some progress, there is a risk that the amount of increases proposed in the draft amending budget will not be sufficient, given the possibility of further deterioration of the situation, due to the unstable geopolitical balance in the middle east, north africa and ukraine. i therefore believe that the commission should reassess the needs and come forward with a proposal to increase appropriately the funding by adjusting the distribution of funds between the various programmes.
in writing. ‒ migration flows to europe have reached dramatic proportions, requiring an efficient and coordinated response by the european institutions. in this context, the draft amending budget aims to increase the resources allocated to the management of migration and refugee flows, through the appropriations for the frontex agency, the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and the internal security fund (isf). in the light of these considerations, i have decided to vote in favour of this report. europe's credibility is very much at stake in its ability to respond to the great problem of migratory pressures, which for the moment seem to have no end.
in writing. ‒ europe has an important and challenging task ahead of it. the pressure on our coasts is not going to end, and day by day the growing tensions are increasing the number of those who are fleeing and seeking refuge. it seems like an eternity, but just over two months ago we were all outraged by yet another tragedy that had bloodied our seas. what's left of that commitment and that outrage. little, maybe not at all. we are discussing quotas as accountants, but nothing has changed in the strategic and political approach to the problem. despite the commission's efforts, some member states have blocked the debate, sterilizing it and limiting its scope. we are voting today for an increase in appropriations, we already know that it will not be enough to cover the needs and wants. we should take the example of lebanon, which, despite its difficulties, has found the strength to take in a quarter of its population. europe must regain its spirit of solidarity, otherwise those who still hope to tear it apart will win.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budget (dab) no 5 for the financial year 2015 because it will increase the resources that the european union allocates to managing the flows of migrants and refugees. in particular, there will be additional appropriations for the frontex agency, the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and the internal security fund (isf).
in writing. ‒ with the adoption of this amending budget, the european commission is allocating resources to tackle the migration problem affecting europe and in particular the countries of first arrival in the mediterranean. for this budget, we are talking about 75 million in commitments and 70 million in payments, of which 27 million are for frontex (to obtain this sum it was necessary to transfer it to the galileo satellite navigation programme). migration is becoming a very serious phenomenon where the lives of many people collide with the financial interests of a few. i remember that 54,000 people have landed in italy alone since the beginning of 2015, and many more are in the mediterranean. it is therefore clear that we are faced with figures which are ineffective in attempting to solve the emergency posed by the migratory flows, but it is equally clear that, however ridiculous, i could only vote in favour of this increase in resources.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the european approach to migration management, which has been proving to be a failure for years. i am voting for this budget increase, even though it is a drop in the ocean of measures that the eu should take.
in writing. ‒ i voted yes to this measure because it increases the funds currently available to eu commitments to respond to migratory pressures. however, i cannot refrain from pointing out that the increase is clearly not up to the current emergency and that it is not enough on its own to fill the gaps in the eu strategy on this issue. we need more solidarity, we need all the member states to put aside their own selfishness and start tackling a problem which is first and foremost european and not just italian or maltese. a radical change in the approach of the individual member states is needed and i will continue to do everything i can to ensure that this happens as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote we have given a green light to the commission's proposal to increase the allocation of funds related to immigration. the result is certainly a step forward towards a responsible management of the migration phenomenon. the additional €69.6 million will be used immediately to increase the staff of frontex, easo and europol, and to strengthen the asylum, integration and immigration and home affairs funds. however, in the long term, more far-reaching concrete aid is needed to manage migration flows in the mediterranean. it is necessary to ensure that member states continue to provide additional means and funding to ensure rescue and salvage at sea. we must not forget, however, that in addition to economic aid, action must be taken on the real causes of migration flows, and in particular the situation in the countries from which these people are fleeing and the absence of legal access routes to europe for refugees and persons in need of international protection.
in writing. i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 5/2015 as it aims to strengthen the union's resources for managing migration and refugee flows following the recent tragedies in the mediterranean and the increase in the size of migratory flows. however, these funds are not sufficient to cover the urgent needs of the migratory phenomenon, especially as the summer season approaches. we therefore call for further efforts to ensure that italy is not left alone in dealing with the phenomenon and to ensure adequate and timely resources.
in writing. ‒ the draft amending budget no 5/2015 on migration pressures is approved. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, and the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction, maintenance, repair and overhaul of buildings, including the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction of buildings, and the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction of buildings, including the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction of buildings, and the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction of buildings, including the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction of buildings, and the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction of buildings. the increase in commitment appropriations and the increase in payment appropriations will allow for more commitment to respond to migratory pressures.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 5/2015 aims to strengthen the union's resources for managing migration and refugee flows, following the recent tragedies in the mediterranean and the increase in the size of migration flows. i felt it necessary to support this report, aware that the need to deal with the migration emergency in a coherent and rational manner cannot be without a greater financial commitment from the european union.
in writing. ‒ we welcome draft amending budget no 5/2015 as it allows for an increase in the budgetary appropriations for migration and asylum policies. we regret, however, the limited amount of the proposed increases, which do not correspond at all to actual needs, in view of the current and likely future deterioration of the crisis in the mediterranean, the growing risk of an increase in refugees from ukraine and the need to address the migratory challenges in general. we note the proposed additional amounts for frontex, for operations triton and poseidon. we call on the commission to ensure that sufficient financial resources are made available to meet the union's search and rescue obligations. we are convinced that there is a need for stricter controls on the use of these funds and, consequently, for greater transparency in the procurement and subcontracting procedures, taking into account the numerous investigations into the various abuses detected in the member states. we regret to note the divergences between member states within the council on the commission's proposal for a european agenda on migration and we would like to stress that, given the nature of the migration phenomenon, the emergency can be dealt with more effectively only at european level.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 5/2015 aims to strengthen the union's resources for managing migration and refugee flows following the recent tragedies in the mediterranean. the increase in the budget of eur 75,7 million in commitments and eur 69,6 million in payments will be financed largely from the funds previously earmarked for the european satellite navigation system galileo, which will be rebuilt in 2016. i therefore voted in favour of this project as a first step in responding to the challenges posed by migratory trends and the unprecedented situation in the mediterranean. i also think it is appropriate to stress that to prevent further loss of life at sea, more and more predictable financial resources will be needed in the medium and long term.
in writing. ‒ i believe, in the light of the above, that to prevent further loss of life at sea and to apply the principles of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility, more and more predictable financial resources will be needed in the medium and long term. i am voting in favour of this.
in writing. ‒ managing the current massive migratory phenomenon, which is mainly concentrated in the mediterranean sea, with considerable effort on the part of local authorities and the people involved, requires appropriate economic resources to enable the eu to respond in the most appropriate way. i have therefore decided to support with conviction the decision of the european parliament to adopt draft amending budget (dab) no 5/2015. the corrective draft aims to provide the union with additional resources for the management of migration and refugee flows. the reinforcements provided for are mainly intended to support the work of the three agencies directly concerned with these matters: the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders (frontex), the european asylum support office (easo) and the european police office (europol) are also involved.
in writing. ‒ a major victory for my country, italy, is the draft amending budget no 5/2015. this proposal for amending the 2015 budget, for which i voted in favour, provides for a strengthening of european resources for the management of migration flows, of which italy has been one of the most affected countries. this reallocation of resources will support the frontex agency, the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because it is a question of mobilising resources to cover at least part of the costs incurred by those member states which are at the forefront of immigration.
in writing. ‒ through draft amending budget no 5/2015, the three european agencies frontex, easo and europol as well as the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund will receive extra appropriations for migration management following the increase in the size of refugee flows to the european union. i have decided to vote in favour of this increase in resources, even though it does not correspond to the actual needs and is not sufficient on its own to deal with the current migratory challenges and the worrisome deterioration of the crisis in the mediterranean.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft amending budget on the need to respond to migratory pressures with more resources for 2015. the proposal will provide the three eu agencies responsible for managing migration flows (frontex, easo and europol) and the two specialised european funds (including the asylum and integration fund) with additional resources, amounting to almost eur 70 million, to strengthen their staff and resources. the european parliament called for a significant increase in the 2015 budget for migration management in the wake of the tragic events that have led to thousands of people losing their lives trying to cross the mediterranean. the commission's proposal for an increase was below parliament's wishes to meet the real needs in terms of resources and staff of the agencies involved, but it is nevertheless an important measure in view of the rapid implementation of the european agenda on migration published in may and currently under discussion in the eu institutions. the increase in funding for frontex, which is intended to triple the current allocation for operations triton and poseidon, aimed at preventing migrant deaths at sea in the western and eastern mediterranean, should be emphasised.
in writing. ‒ we have today approved amending budget no 5 presented in may by the european commission to respond to the migratory pressures that the european union, and italy in particular, has been under during these first months of the year. the appropriations provided for amount to some 75 million in commitments and 70 million in payments, obtained through a transfer from the galileo programme. in particular, some 27 million will be earmarked for frontex, which will also see its staff increased, as will the european asylum support office and europol. unfortunately, these additional 70 million euros will certainly not solve the problems of migration, but i can only support this amending budget, which could in any case improve, if only slightly, the current difficult european situation.
in writing. ‒ europe has failed to respond effectively to the end of the milk quota system, with disastrous consequences for milk producers in italy and veneto. this own-initiative report, while not clearly denouncing the delays and shortcomings of community action, provides useful suggestions to the commission to put in place strategies capable of stabilizing the productive sector. although i have many reservations about the eu's ability to translate the good intentions listed in the text into concrete action, i can only support it with my vote and continue to fight alongside our producers and our territories.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the dairy sector is not only a sector which provides for the livelihood and development of a significant part of the european population, but also, and above all, an asset of our continent which must be supported and safeguarded.
in writing. - i vote for it. the 'milk package', which has been in force since october 2012, is the only community initiative aimed at producers to provide them with the necessary tools to face the challenges facing the dairy sector, especially after the end of the quota system. implemented subsequently through the new cap in 2013, it establishes producer organisations and inter-branch organisations in the dairy sector for the first time. although it includes some important instruments (chain structure, production planning, inter-professional cooperation, new contracting, etc.), its uneven application within the eu and in many member states, as well as the difficulty of the relationship between producers, processors and, above all, large-scale distribution, have prevented its proper implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today because the european union must do more to help milk producers adapt to the new market reality. european milk producers are operating in a crisis scenario caused by the end of the milk quota system, the decline in domestic consumption, the russian embargo and the extreme volatility of prices which should be countered by an appropriate legal framework allowing the organisation of production through supply management in the milk sector. i think it is essential to encourage research and innovation to enable all producers and processors to adapt their production techniques to meet economic, environmental and social expectations. another challenge is generational renewal. i welcome in this connection the possibilities for financing for milk producers under the new eib fund, which provides lower interest rates to facilitate investment and modernisation in the farm, while offering financing opportunities to young producers to grow their business. finally, i would point out that the world demand for milk and cheese is growing and that extraordinary markets are opening up. it is therefore essential to encourage exports in order to protect the sector.
in writing. ‒ the report is rather vague, omitting some problems that operators and farmers are experiencing both in the supply chain and in production practices. there is no mention of the question of powdered milk, of any ad hoc labels on cheeses made from such milk, there is mention of pdos and pgi without, however, adequately highlighting how these brands are suffering from competition on foreign markets, especially with ttip and ceta. the text should be improved but since it cannot be amended, the m5s delegation decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the prospects for the eu milk sector and on the review of the implementation of the milk package. overall, the medium and long-term prospects for the dairy sector are positive both for the domestic and the world market. demand is strong, especially in emerging economies. as regards the implementation of the milk package, the results are disappointing and the implementation of the measures provided for has not been uniform in the member states. therefore, stakeholders in the dairy supply chain are invited to make use of the measures provided for in the milk package and also to make recommendations on the new tools that should be evaluated by the commission and the industry. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the dairy sector in the form of a grant of eur 300000 per dairy farmer.
in writing. ‒ i was positive about the prospects for the dairy sector as milk, and in particular products with a protected designation of origin, a protected geographical indication and traditional specialities guaranteed produced throughout the eu, are an essential component of the european agri-food industry. they also provide an important driver for agricultural and rural development throughout europe, especially in disadvantaged, mountainous and island areas and in the outermost regions where livestock farming is often the only viable agricultural activity. however, with the abolition of the milk quota system, price volatility will initially be a barrier for producers in the sector who are particularly sensitive to changes in income due to high capital costs. unfortunately, the implementation of the measures in the milk package has been disappointing so far, but i hope that in future they will be more closely followed. the milk market observatory was also set up for this purpose to disseminate and analyse market data and is intended to play a strategic role in the future in creating a profitable, sustainable and competitive dairy sector in the union.
in writing. ‒ the milk package in force since october 2012 has provided producers with a range of tools to meet the challenges facing the dairy sector, and has also strengthened contractual relations and negotiating power. it is also true that the implementation of the measures introduced by this package has not been uniform in all member states, thus undermining the soundness of the sector. the initial objective was to create a profitable, sustainable and competitive sector with response tools that allow fair compensation of milk producers, in particular for small farms which are particularly vulnerable to changes in income and risks due to high capital costs, perishability of production, price volatility and energy and factor costs. unfortunately, the abolition of milk quotas on 31 march has begun to create a solution of instability to the benefit of the large farms. in my view, it is necessary to confirm the previous decisions on milk quotas and to provide for new financing opportunities, also with the help of the eib, in order to encourage investment and modernisation of farms and to enable young producers to grow their business.
in writing. ‒ this report is certainly a starting point for reopening the debate on the milk package. we all agree that we must guarantee income support for our farmers who have suffered considerable losses in recent months as a result of the russian embargo, losses which will unfortunately not cease if we continue to negotiate with economic giants who produce without respect for quality and safety. what concerns us, however, is that this report too has not given due weight to a problem which is liable to undermine the quality of our products, namely the presence on the markets of dried milk products and milkless cheeses. we therefore ask for a reopening of the debate on the 2012 package, taking account of the new scenarios we are all facing. that is why i have abstained on this report, which does not reflect any of our requests and is ambiguous and inconclusive.
in writing. ‒ in 2003, with the mid-term review of the cap, the eu member states agreed to end the milk quota system as from 31 march 2015. the milk package approved in the last legislature has proved inadequate in providing milk producers with the necessary tools to meet the new challenges facing the sector. for these reasons i voted in favour of this proposal which calls on the european commission to put in place measures to better manage the crisis facing milk producers.
in writing. ‒ the context in which this report is set is that of changes and prospects in the dairy sector, especially after the mid-term reform of the cap, the common agricultural policy, in 2003 which provided for the definitive end of the milk quota system as from march 2015. for italian producers this was a double-edged sword: on the one hand, those who were forced to limit their production were no longer forced to do so, and on the other hand, the abolition of quotas would lead to an inevitable increase in supply (especially from the best-equipped member states), with a consequent drastic fall in prices. in addition to the quota issue, the text touches on other important points for the dairy sector, but it leaves out others that are essential for us, such as, for example, the question of powdered milk and dairy products derived from it, which is not even mentioned, and the whole of the pdo and pgi talk which, although mentioned, never refers to the suffering that these products are facing because of a very competitive and sometimes unfair foreign market. so, although the text itself does not present any particular problem, i felt i had to abstain, given the absence of passages that could have made it a more courageous text.
in writing. ‒ this report is not perfect but i support it because the 'milk package', which has been in force since october 2012, is the only community initiative to date to provide producers with the tools to cope with the difficulties and challenges of the moment, especially after the end of the quota system.
in writing. ‒ the dairy sector is in a very difficult phase. the problems of complex adjustment to a newly revolutionised regulatory framework, price volatility, energy costs and factors of production, to name a few, have been compounded by the very serious impact of the vicious sanctions imposed on russia. in today's report we have analysed the situation and taken stock of the implementation of the milk package. the commission must come forward as soon as possible with concrete proposals to remedy these problems and prevent the crisis from worsening, and the member states must be called upon to implement all the measures of the milk package which have not yet been implemented and which could bring further support to the dairy sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the future prospects for the eu milk sector - review of the implementation of the milk package, because i share the ep's request to the commission to present a specific plan to address the various problems in the milk sector. the revision is made necessary by the end of the milk quota system and the russian embargo on eu imports. the resulting unprecedented price volatility on the markets, which has led to the fall in producer margins, is a clear indication of the shortcomings of the current milk package. these are important issues which the eu must tackle urgently if we want an innovative, competitive and sustainable dairy sector. i therefore agree with the reference to the question of the contractual power of producers vis-à-vis processors and the question of strengthening producer organisations in order to eliminate unfair competition and increase producers' incomes. finally, i think it is essential to draw attention to the less-favoured, peripheral, island and mountain areas and the role that the dairy sector plays in those territories in terms of social and territorial cohesion, family subsistence, rural development and employment and the preservation of traditional agricultural practices. it is a fair vision, which looks at the territories in terms of the recovery of traditions by innovating.
in writing. ‒ the milk quota debate, which has been a major focus of european debate for years, has come to an end after 30 years. it is useless to ask again whether it was good or bad, it is useless to reopen the controversy. today we need proposals, we need to turn the end of milk quotas from wild liberalization into opportunities. the estimates say that without the quota leashes milk production will increase, so we must put our producers in a position to grow, to produce in greater quantities, by removing all the other obstacles that bind them and restrict them much more than when they did not have the quotas. we must act on all the barriers to production and competition, first and foremost the russian embargo, but also on the fiscal constraints and bureaucratic red tape which only increase production costs. and then to focus on quality and the exploitation of the famous know-how and made in, real safeguards and guarantees of extraordinary agri-food production, the heritage of the whole of europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr nicholson's proposal. the 'milk package' entered into force on 3 october 2012 and is applicable until 30 june 2020 and, as set out in the 2003 cap mid-term review, milk quotas will expire on 31 march 2015. the ban imposed by russia on european dairy products in august 2014 had a negative impact on the eu internal market and thus highlighted the need to be ready to apply market measures related to crises, whatever their nature, and the importance of ensuring diversification of export markets for union products. finally, i would like to emphasize the role of milk production in terms of land management, rural employment and economic, environmental and social development in many european agricultural regions.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the implementation of the milk and milk products package. the dairy sector makes a major contribution to promoting the image of the european agri-food industry in the world and is therefore a key pillar of the economy. the milk mini-pack was one of the first major agricultural legislative acts adopted by the european parliament and the council under the ordinary legislative procedure, which has applied to agriculture since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. this report emphasises the need for all stakeholders in the dairy chain to adopt and make use of the instruments provided for in the milk package (considering that the implementation of the measures provided for in the milk package has proved inadequate) in order to stabilise the milk market and consequently the incomes of milk producers in times of crisis.
in writing. ‒ the milk package aims to create the conditions for a profitable, sustainable and competitive dairy sector in the community. i decided to vote in favour of this report, aware that the consolidation and improvement of contractual relations would help to ensure a more equitable distribution of income along the production chain, giving added value to it.
in writing. ‒ we declare our support for this important draft resolution, as producers in the sector are particularly vulnerable to income changes due to high capital costs, volatile dairy product prices and fluctuating energy and factor costs. we also want to emphasize that milk producers often occupy a weak position in the global food chain and are particularly exposed to unfair trading practices. the ageing of the dairy population is also a matter of concern to us. therefore, it is essential for the future growth and sustainability of the sector to encourage and support generational renewal, using both new and existing tools. the negative impact of the russian embargo on producers in this sector is also undeniable. finally, it was important in deciding to support the resolution to note that in many disadvantaged areas and outermost regions, dairy production remains the only source of income and employment for farms: therefore, its survival is essential to prevent the abandonment of the land.
in writing. ‒ as the implementation of the milk package measures has proved to be unsatisfactory, the report urges the parties involved in the dairy supply chain to use the milk package measures and makes recommendations on new tools that should be evaluated by the commission and the industry. the report also highlights the strategic role that the milk market observatory, set up in april 2014, will have to play in the years to come. in the light of the foregoing, i have decided to support the report.
in writing. ‒ considering, in the light of the above, that for a significant number of dairy farms located in disadvantaged, island, remote and mountainous areas or in the outermost regions, the costs of producing, collecting and marketing milk and milk products outside their production area are much higher than in other areas and that these farms cannot exploit to the same extent the growth opportunities offered by the abolition of quotas due to the natural constraints of these regions; for the reasons stated above, these producers could be threatened by a greater concentration of production in areas with a better economic position within the union, and i therefore express my favourable opinion on this revision.
in writing. ‒ the end of the milk quota represents a challenge for the whole dairy sector. milk producers are particularly vulnerable to income changes due to high raw material prices and fluctuating costs of inputs and energy resources needed for production. moreover, milk producers often occupy a weak position in the global food supply chain and are particularly exposed to unfair trading practices. i believe that conditions must be created to ensure the balanced development of milk production throughout the eu, while at the same time safeguarding the needs of producers. for this reason and in order to continue the work of monitoring the prospects for the dairy sector, i thought it appropriate to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr nicholson on the prospects for the eu dairy sector. the end of the milk quota policy after 30 years of its entry into force has opened up new and important challenges for the dairy sector. the situation in the milk package is rather disappointing, and i therefore agree to urge all those involved in the milk sector to make use of the measures provided for in the milk package.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, appreciating some useful calls on the commission to put in place a series of strategies (review of the tasks of the observatory, updating and improvement of the safety net) which i believe are useful for the manufacturing sector.
in writing. ‒ dairy farmers, and in particular small farms, face multiple challenges on a daily basis in order to survive, such as high capital costs, perishable production, high price volatility, fluctuating energy and factor costs. we have left behind the era of milk quotas which ended on 1 april last. it is now important that the european union accompanies milk producers in this new scenario, giving them greater flexibility to respond to the growing demand in the world market while ensuring that the sector remains competitive and profitable. i have decided to vote in favour of the own-initiative report because i believe that it correctly highlights not only the challenges but also the opportunities for european producers. with the new tools to be made available by the european fund for strategic investments, we need to help the sector to reach its full potential and thereby promote job creation and economic growth in rural areas in the eu.
in writing. i have chosen to abstain on the milk package report because, despite some correct analyses, there are unfortunately no concrete answers to solve the problems that have been highlighted. the end of the milk quota system in april this year liberalises a market which has hitherto been strictly regulated, while at the same time exposing it to the risks of an open market and no longer subject to quotas. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. moreover, milk producers often occupy a weak position in the global food chain and are particularly exposed to unfair trading practices. the report, however, merely suggests that the milk observatory's powers should be strengthened and that contractual relations should be strengthened to ensure a fairer distribution of profits along the supply chain, without proposing a valid mechanism for monitoring prices and resolving any market crises in order to protect producers.
in writing. ‒ the text under voting is acceptable and i believe that it defends the interests of our companies in third countries, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that public-private partnerships are an innovative solution to support the growth of european enterprises and therefore i believe that the trade agreements concluded by the union with third countries should contain precise provisions in this respect, which do not discriminate against our companies.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of a report which has already been supported by a very broad consensus among the groups in the committee on international trade and by the northern league. the subject in question is very technical and concerns public-private partnerships outside the european union. the rapporteur (from the ecr group) has managed to strike a balance between the positions which look to the interests of our large companies in the rest of the world, and the demands of those on the extreme left who have proposed amendments which emphasize, on the contrary, the need to protect the people of third countries. the vote in favour was therefore due to the presence in the text of both positive assessments of the activities of these partnerships and social references concerning the commitment of the companies involved to respect the environment and workers' rights.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the external impact of eu trade and investment policy on public-private initiatives in third countries. the report focuses on public-private partnerships (ppps), an important tool for economic growth and job creation both within and outside the european single market, for which there is currently no internationally recognised definition or global regulatory framework. the report therefore calls on the commission to promote an internationally recognised definition of public-private partnership, as a long-term relationship between public promoter and private investors for the provision of quality and accessible public services and infrastructure. the commission must ensure that european smes operating abroad can compete on the same terms as foreign national firms, by means of clear regulations and easy access to information on tender criteria and by eliminating all discriminatory and unjustified trade barriers in public procurement, services or investment.
in writing. ‒ the report by mr zahradil highlights the need to stimulate decent job creation, competitiveness, technology exchange and productivity within the eu and in third countries through innovative policies that foster interaction between the public and private sectors: the so-called public-private partnership. but today european companies, especially smes, have difficulty entering third country markets. the text adopted today therefore calls for greater coordination between the public and private sectors through appropriate technical assistance to strengthen the legal and institutional framework in which public-private partnerships have developed, assessing and monitoring the implementation of such projects in strategic areas such as energy, water, digital, road and telecommunications infrastructure. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the external impact of eu trade and investment policy on public-private initiatives in countries outside the eu. the importance of public-private partnerships (ppps) is linked to the fact that they are a tool for economic growth, innovation, competitiveness and job creation both in the single market and beyond, and play a strategic role in the modernisation of infrastructure, in particular energy, water, road and digital infrastructure. the positive effects of partnerships are due to better project delivery, good cost-benefit ratio, the possibility of long-term financing of costs, the stimulation of innovation and research and a more flexible and specialised management environment. increased participation by european businesses in large-scale international projects, in particular public-private partnerships, would bring substantial benefits in terms of job creation, productivity, competitiveness, technology and innovation, with consequent benefits and economic growth in the eu and host countries. the proposal therefore calls on the eu institutions, and in particular the european commission, to take the necessary steps to promote the participation of eu enterprises, and in particular smes, in public-private partnership projects.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission's own-initiative report because i believe that the positive and negative aspects of public-private partnerships (ppps) are fairly and comprehensively highlighted. ppp means a long-term working relationship between the public authority and a private partner to finalise a project in the public interest. this type of cooperation brings benefits to both parties as it allows for greater efficiency and timeliness, better value for money, new job opportunities for union citizens and new resources for private enterprises. benefits that are enhanced by the possibility of sharing the risks. so, considering that the interaction between the public and private sectors is an innovative solution that brings benefits to the economy as a whole and that these benefits will be distributed to citizens, consumers and private businesses, i believe that it is constructive to support sustainable growth also through such investments in third countries as they could represent a first step towards a new global economic growth. however, since there is still confusion about an internationally recognised definition of ppps, i think it is the commission's duty to try to define this type of practice better.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the report by mr zahradil, who focuses on the benefits of public-private partnerships, namely: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is based on the following principles: in addition, ppps are a tool for economic growth, innovation, competitiveness and job creation both in the single market and beyond, and play a strategic role in the modernisation of infrastructure such as energy, digital, water and road infrastructure. they also provide high added value to citizens and consumers by ensuring high quality goods/services.
in writing. ‒ i believe that public-private partnerships are a valuable tool for promoting job creation and growth, increasing competitiveness and productivity on the one hand and ensuring the reliability of public infrastructure on the other. the validity and effectiveness of these instruments depend, however, on the degree of transparency and the soundness of the legal framework that accompanies them. in international trade relations, the development of public-private partnerships also guarantees improved access to third country markets for european enterprises, and in particular smes: this is particularly important in certain areas such as public procurement, where the high degree of closure still existing in the international market, which is a significant handicap for our companies, must be overcome and the balance restored on the basis of the principle of reciprocity. that is why i voted strongly in favour of the report on the external impact of eu trade and investment policy on public-private initiatives in countries outside the eu.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on public-private partnerships outside the european union. we support this theme and i find the references in the social text to the commitment of the companies involved to respect the environment and the rights of workers important.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which stresses the need to stimulate decent job creation, competitiveness and productivity within the eu and in third countries. this is done through innovative policies and new instruments to boost the dynamism of economic actors to boost sustainable growth, including through investment outside the single market. the report also considers that public-private partnerships (ppps) could be a potential source of growth for eu businesses and, at the same time, be useful to our partner third countries, as they could provide infrastructure, goods and services of general interest.
in writing. ‒ the report on the external impact of eu trade and investment policy on public-private initiatives in countries outside the eu is endorsed. partnerships are important tools used in government policy at international level as a means of economic growth and innovation. the report therefore stresses the need to stimulate decent job creation, competitiveness and productivity within the eu and in third countries through new direct instruments to boost sustainable growth.
in writing. ‒ at present, there is no comprehensive regulatory framework governing public-private cooperation initiatives. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report, which clearly defines the external impact of the eu's trade and investment policy on public-private initiatives in third countries.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this draft resolution, which is necessary because it is clear that the construction, operation and maintenance of infrastructure in the field of transport, public buildings and structures, the environment, telecommunications or energy networks, or the development of new technologies, involves certain potential benefits and risks that the private and public sectors can share. indeed, we strongly believe that increased participation by european businesses in large-scale international projects, in particular in public-private partnerships, would bring substantial benefits in terms of job creation, productivity, competitiveness and innovation, with consequent economic benefits in the eu and in the host countries. the opportunities offered by public-private partnerships, both for non-eu companies and for european smes, can be best exploited through better timeliness and budgetary constraints, good value for money, long-term financing of construction costs, incentives for innovation and research, involvement of the private sector also in project management, a more flexible and specialised management environment, resource benefits for companies, strengthening the competitiveness of eu companies to participate in public procurement in third countries.
in writing. ‒ this is an initiative report by the inta commission on public-private partnerships (ppps), i.e. long-term contracts between the public authority and a private partner, under which the private sector finances a public service using its own resources and sharing the joint risks. the partnership is therefore a business relationship between two parties, one public and one private, to implement and finalise a project that responds to a public interest. as ppps are a tool for economic growth, innovation, competitiveness and job creation, both in the single market and beyond, and play a strategic role in the modernisation of infrastructure, particularly energy, water, road and digital infrastructure, i have decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the external impact of eu trade and investment policy on public-private initiatives in countries outside the eu. i believe that it is necessary to stimulate decent job creation, competitiveness and productivity within the eu and in third countries through innovative policies and new instruments aimed at promoting the dynamism of economic actors to revive sustainable growth, including through investment outside the single market. i believe that public-private partnerships (ppps) can be a potential source of growth for eu businesses and at the same time be useful for our partner third countries, as they play a strategic role in the modernisation of infrastructure, in particular energy, water, road and digital infrastructure, considering that eu businesses are well prepared to compete and make such agreements work. finally, i argue that ppps should bring high added value to citizens and consumers, ensure quality services and/or goods and provide tangible competitive and economic benefits for public administrations, both at state and local level, while avoiding creating additional burdens or losses for the public sector.
in writing. ‒ considering that many emerging and developing countries are faced with an imbalance between the dynamism of private enterprise and the unreliability of public infrastructure, i express my support for this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ public-private partnerships (ppps) are long-term agreements between the government and a private partner in which the private partner provides and finances public services with its own capital and shares the associated risks. ppps therefore refer to commercial relations between a private sector company and a government body with the aim of completing a project that will serve public users. the ppp can be used to finance a range of initiatives such as major infrastructure such as roads, ports and prisons, which would otherwise have difficulty in obtaining the resources needed to implement them. as regards the impact on third countries, i am convinced that increased participation by european businesses in major international projects, through ppps, would lead to considerable benefits both in terms of job creation and economic growth throughout the eu and in the host countries. the resolution urges the eu institutions to take the necessary measures to promote the participation of european enterprises, in particular smes, in ppp projects. for all these reasons i thought it appropriate to support this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report presented by the inta committee on public-private partnerships in third countries, those long-term contracts between the public authority and a private partner, under which the private sector finances a public service using its own resources and sharing the joint risks. this report, as the report itself emphasizes, can have very positive effects on employment (think, for example, of private participation in a major public project). it is therefore an important means of increasing employment and for this reason i have decided to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i share the positive assessments in the text about the work of these partnerships and the focus on the commitment of the companies involved to respect for the environment and workers' rights.
in writing. ‒ in today's vote, parliament calls on the commission to take the necessary measures to support the participation of european companies, in particular smes, in public-private partnership (ppp) projects in third countries. i voted in favour of this initiative because i believe that greater participation of our companies at international level could produce interesting opportunities in terms of job creation, competitiveness and innovation both for the eu and for the host countries. ppps could allow for the more efficient development and financing of a range of strategic investments such as roads, bridges and hospitals through a shared management of any risks and benefits. i believe that it is essential in any case that private investors be given sufficient guarantees as regards legal certainty and equal treatment of all interested parties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the melo report which analyses the development of the fruit and vegetable sector after the 2007 reform. the fruit and vegetable sector is of fundamental importance for the eu and our territories: it represents 18% of the total value of european agricultural production, amounting to over eur 50 billion. for these reasons i believe that the commission should remove the existing bureaucratic obstacles which prevent effective aggregation of the producer organizations of the member states and which would lead to a maximisation of the operational management of this sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that public-private partnerships are an innovative solution to support the growth of european enterprises and therefore i believe that the trade agreements concluded by the union with third countries should contain precise provisions in this respect, which do not discriminate against our companies.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the measure. in the eu, the fruit and vegetable sector accounts for 18% of the total value of agricultural production, uses only 3% of the cultivated area and is worth over €50 billion. in this sector too, the issue of aggregating supply and organising the supply chain is very important for an adequate presence on the market. producer organisations (po) and their associations (pa) can be a useful instrument in this respect under community rules, encouraged by the recent reform of the cap, but are used in the fruit and vegetable sector only in those geographical areas where there is a more developed farmer figure, more oriented towards the market for its products (northern italy is an example). the rate of organisation among producers thus remains on average low and, in some member states, considerably below the eu average. the report lists a number of useful calls to the commission to increase aggregation between producers and to remove the main obstacles (many of them bureaucratic) to the operational management of the op.
in writing. ‒ the importance of the eu fruit and vegetable sector is undeniable, both in terms of added value and employment. the health benefits of fruit and vegetables for the public should not be overlooked. however, this sector is characterized by frequent market crises, as even small surpluses of production can cause drastic price falls. in addition, serious crises such as the one caused by the e. coli bacterium or the current one, generated by the russian embargo, have shown the vulnerability of the sector. that is why, as the report we voted on shows, the commission should consider the introduction of new crisis management instruments, which are currently underused and underperforming. the community support measures should be extended until the normal market situation has been fully restored, also in relation to the russian embargo: producers should not be charged for the cost of crises caused by causes external to the agricultural sector. finally, the commission should intensify its efforts to combat unfair trading practices in the food chain, which reduce incomes and threaten the efficiency of the sector, in order to guarantee a decent income to fruit and vegetable producers, a prerequisite for securing the future of the profession and attracting a young workforce.
in writing. ‒ over the past 20 years, the cap has reduced the regulation of agricultural markets, particularly in the fruit and vegetable sector, allowing market forces to steer production at the expense of distributors, processors and short-chain operators. the 2007 reform strengthens the role of producer organisations (po) and associations of producer organisations and sets the funding limits at 4.1% of the value of the marketed production of po. the report by mr nuno melo highlights the importance of ensuring legal certainty by simplifying the rules applicable to fruit and vegetables and the procedures for establishing and recognising the various op at national level. it also called for a focus on human capital and the selection of qualified managers who could compete in competitive international markets, such as those of third countries with which the eu has trade agreements, and where unfair practices, which ops are already forced to face at national level, are accentuated. the committee calls for greater transparency and democratic control over the allocation of community funds, so as to increase mutual trust between the operational programmes and combat unfair practices, which are frequent in the large-scale distribution of fruit and vegetables. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the fruit and vegetables sector after the 2007 reform. the sector has been liberalised by reducing market regulation, by abandoning instruments such as export refunds or the fixing of minimum prices for certain products, which processing undertakings were required to pay to farmers. alongside this process of liberalisation, the eu has confirmed and strengthened the role of producer organisations (po) and associations of producer organisations (aops) with the aim of enabling farmers to act in their own interests, for example by collectively selling their products or by adding value through farm conversion. the increase in the rate of organisation in almost all member states in recent years indicates that the union's policy of supporting the creation and development of po has been effective. the report therefore calls for incentives and encouragement for the creation of po and poa in the eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the fruit and vegetables sector because the reform implemented in 2007 strengthened the role of producer organisations and associations of producer organisations with tangible results. the rate of organisation has increased, with a share of fruit and vegetables marketed within the eu between producer organisations and associations of producer organisations reaching 43%. the public consultation carried out by the commission highlighted that the majority of respondents were in favour of continuing the scheme launched in 2007, albeit with some corrective measures. the regions where producers have reported higher productivity and competitiveness rates are those where the rate of production organisation is higher, but this is still not widespread among producers. for this reason, it is necessary to continue to encourage the creation of organizations and associations and their merger, by simplifying the regime applicable to the fruit and vegetable sector and by allocating funds to encourage the improvement of the management capacity of organizations. the population employed in agriculture is also ageing and it is of paramount importance to give a new impetus and appeal to a fundamental activity such as agriculture.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr melo's report because i agree with the need to strengthen the incentives to encourage the creation of pos and ppas and their mergers. the purpose of producer organisations, as well as associations, is to enable farmers to defend their interests, for example by selling their products or by adding value by becoming a holding. it is also important to improve the human capital of the op by investing in it to make the agri-food sector competitive and international, as well as to protect farmers from unfair commercial practices of the large retailers.
in writing. ‒ with the 2007 reform of the fruit and vegetables sector, the commission wanted to strengthen the role of producer organisations (po) by providing them with a wide range of tools to prevent and manage market crises and by creating incentives to encourage their merger with associations of po (poa) for greater transnational cooperation in the sector. nevertheless, in order to further make the po an attractive instrument, it is still necessary to reduce the excessive complexity and lack of legal certainty that characterise the current regime for fruit and vegetables. i voted in favour of this report to call on the european commission to combat unfair trading practices in the supply chain which affect the performance of producers, reduce their incomes and threaten the efficiency and sustainability of the sector and to strengthen incentives to encourage the creation of po and ppas and mergers between them.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report on the fruit and vegetables sector, which represents 18% of the total value of agricultural production and uses only 3% of the cultivated area, with a value of over eur 50 billion.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the state of the fruit and vegetable sector after the 2007 reform. the fruit and vegetable sector provides european citizens with fresh, high-quality products, but in recent years it has been in a sharp recession, as evidenced by the 6% decrease in the area under cultivation. despite the importance of the sector for the health of its citizens and the direct and indirect employment it provides, the eu continues to import because production is insufficient, due to high costs and the russian embargo has made the situation worse. most producers are smes, unable to cope with the contracting power of large retailers and suffering from ridiculous profit margins. i therefore share the call for the promotion of producer organisations and associations of producer groups, including at cross-border level. the rate of organization is still too low, with large differences between the various member states. they should be encouraged, as they increase the competitiveness and innovation of the sector, encourage youth initiative and strengthen the negotiating power of producers. the call for policies to shorten the supply chain and promote direct sales to the territories, as well as the call for the creation of stable instruments for crisis management such as the russian embargo, are also welcome.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have expressed my favourable opinion on mr melo's proposal on the fruit and vegetables sector after the 2007 reform. i believe it is of the utmost importance to support the fruit and vegetable sector throughout the union, given its importance both in terms of added value and employment and in terms of health, as it is the main component of the mediterranean diet. the proposal calls on the commission to strengthen the existing aid scheme for the distribution of fruit, vegetables and milk in schools, given the importance of promoting a healthy and balanced diet from an early age, while bringing young consumers closer to local producers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the fruit and vegetables sector after the 2007 reform. fruit and vegetables are a key sector for the european union, not only in terms of turnover but also in terms of employment. the report stresses the need to strengthen incentives to encourage the creation of producer organisations (pos) and associations of producer organisations (aos) in order to make them more competitive and to promote the agricultural market sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report signed by mr melo, because i believe that the union's policy of creating and developing ops has achieved considerable results in recent years. i particularly appreciated the reference in the document to the need to strengthen incentives to encourage further development of the fruit and vegetable sector.
in writing. ‒ we vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, as the increase in the rate of organisation in almost all member states in recent years shows that the union's policy of establishing and developing producer organisations (po) has achieved results and requires that this policy be pursued without hesitation. we therefore believe that it is necessary to strengthen the incentives to encourage the creation of ops and associations of ops and mergers between them. it is also important to find ways of making membership of a producer organisation more attractive. the excessive complexity and lack of legal certainty of the current fruit and vegetable regime have proved to be disincentives to the creation of po. the lack of legal certainty is a significant obstacle to increasing the organisation rate, as farmers who form an op, should the recognition of the op be subsequently cancelled or contested, could in theory be required to return eu funding out of their own pocket. it is therefore essential, as a first step, to proceed without delay to reduce complexity and uncertainty in order to increase the attractiveness of such organisations.
in writing. ‒ the 2007 reform of the fruit and vegetable regime strengthened and broadened the role of producer organisations (po) and associations of producer organisations (aop). the report considers that the increase in the rate of organisation in almost all member states in recent years shows that the union's policy of establishing and developing pos has achieved satisfactory results. the report concludes that increasing the rate of organisation across the union should remain a priority for the fruit and vegetables scheme. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the report because i believe it is essential to strengthen the incentives to encourage the creation of po and poa and mergers between them.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the information received, and considering that the crisis caused by the russian embargo has had and will continue to have a significant negative impact on the fruit and vegetable sector and that producers have suffered the most significant losses; i am therefore in favour of this motion for a resolution, since it stresses the importance of strong ops, organised in such a way as to be able to face unexpected and adverse situations together, with the support of appropriate instruments adapted to the gravity of each crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which is the counterpart to the european commission's report on the implementation of the provisions on producer organisations, operational funds and operational programmes in the fruit and vegetables sector since the 2007 reform. i strongly hope that the european union's policy in this area will focus on strengthening the role of producer organisations (po) in order to stimulate competitiveness, increase productivity and encourage practices that are more respectful of the environment and of europe's agricultural heritage.
in writing. ‒ the report presented by mr melo and discussed in the agri committee deals with the study of the fruit and vegetable sector after the 2007 reform. the data collected show that the reform adopted has confirmed and extended the policy of strengthening the role of producer organisations (po) and associations of producer organisations (poas). the eu policy in favour of the creation and development of pos has therefore achieved positive results, but needs further incentives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the report contains a number of calls on the commission to increase aggregation between producers and to remove the main obstacles (many of them of a bureaucratic nature) to the management of producer organisations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of parliament's own-initiative proposal to implement the provisions on operational programmes, funds and producer organisations in the fruit and vegetables sector after the 2007 reform. the report proposes to strengthen the role of producer organisations in the fruit and vegetable sector in order to increase productivity, support research and innovation, and prevent and manage market crises. to achieve these objectives, i believe it is necessary to simplify the rules governing the operation of these organizations, which play a key role in the food supply chain in our territories.
in writing. ‒ the sanctions imposed on russia and the resulting export blockade have a direct impact on the european fruit and vegetable sector and unfortunately we are forced to witness strong market disturbances and falling producer prices. it is therefore essential that this report be approved by the european parliament, because it is necessary to deal collectively with unexpected and adverse situations and to provide producers with all the tools to strengthen their contractual position vis-à-vis the main retailers, including through production planning, innovation support and crisis prevention measures. producer organisations have become indispensable to european fruit and vegetable policy and should be supported at all levels, in particular in member states where the number of organisations is still low. these organisations could also be effective tools to combat unfair trading practices in the food chain, ensuring better remuneration even for small producers, who are most affected by market instability.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the state of the fruit and vegetable sector because i think it contains interesting ideas for strengthening an important sector of our agri-food production. the recent deregulation of agricultural markets has led to market distortions to the detriment of producers and in particular of operators in the short supply chain. the report stresses the importance of strengthening producer organisations, through which critical mass can be achieved to ensure legal certainty and simplification of the applicable regimes. it is important to focus on human capital, greater transparency and democratic control over the allocation of community funds in order to increase mutual trust between the po and to combat unfair and opportunistic practices, which are frequent in the large-scale distribution of fruit and vegetables. the russian embargo also deserves particular attention, since it has aggravated the situation of farmers, who are increasingly in a particularly vulnerable negotiating position vis-à-vis wholesalers or retailers. i share the commission's request to consider making contributions to the crisis prevention and management funds to help farmers protect themselves against substantial income losses.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that after what has happened in recent weeks, and in particular last sunday in greece, it is no longer possible to look at any action programme of the european institutions as before: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. the signal that has come to us from athens is not merely a technical signal, limited to the subject of the question in question: the commission's proposal is a political signal, and no other european institution can and must take it as a political signal in the noblest sense of the word than this parliament, as the direct representative of the people. i therefore urge you to encourage the juncker commission to draw up a work programme which: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's external borders, which was adopted by the council on 26 june, is designed to ensure that the union's external borders are not affected by the threat of terrorism. because - beyond the merits or responsibilities of governments - we as the european parliament must have the people at the centre of our thoughts. the commission has control of the leverage of the political initiative: i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. the individual measures should in our view focus in particular on the following elements: high unemployment and sluggish growth,high levels of public debt and excessive bureaucracy,a credit system insensitive to the demands of households and businesses,a short-sighted and ineffective approach to climate change-driven immigration policies. there are also cross-cutting problems, such as corruption, tax evasion and the infiltration of organised crime, which call for more effective and coherent action at community level. in essence, what we as european institutions cannot afford is to lose the confidence of the citizens even more. the commission, with its work programme, can do a great deal to restore credibility to our electorate. we therefore expect him to do his job well and, above all, to do it with the necessary conscience.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, a lot of things have been going through my mind during this debate and i have to say that the impression i have is that, unfortunately, we will find ourselves, perhaps in a year's time, in more or less the same situation, if not worse. the problem is to understand what the commission wants to do not only with its own future but also with the future of europe, at least with the future of this european union, because i cannot understand whether the commission realizes that ever larger cracks are opening up and that it does not need a hand of whitewash to keep the house standing, but that a complete restructuring must be done. we must take decisive action to revise certain treaties which, apparently, instead of bringing prosperity as we were told a few decades ago, are leading some peoples to catastrophe. it is true that the signal given in greece on sunday was above all a political signal and i call on you, i implore you, to change your policies more than you are doing, because the juncker plan, which was proclaimed last year, does not seem to be sufficient at the moment. but, most importantly, you also have to let us know what your real priorities are, the ones that maybe don't get said: we are concerned about our small and mediumsized enterprises, our traditions, our identities. we think europe is strong precisely because it is different. instead, there seems to be a political action, often and willingly, that looks more at the multinationals, the big banks and wants to approve everything and everyone, in order to make us numbers. we do not accept this and sooner or later the people will rise up. i think that the commission should be able to take the initiative in this matter, and i hope that the council will be able to take the initiative in this matter. look at the rest of the world. i don't understand why nothing is done, for example, for our persecuted christian brothers. this is all about islamophobia, homophobia, but it's not about christianophobia. what about isis? the islamic state? we need decisive action from europe to protect us from the greatest danger that will be facing us in the coming years.
first vice-president of the commission.– mr president, let me just react to a number of comments that have been made. first of all, i have to say that there is broad support for working closely together on a commission work programme that is targeted and, of course, that chooses political priorities after a debate. political priorities are something you debate, and you look for majorities to get them, clearly. at the same time i also see the willingness in this institution, just as much as i know it exists in the council and in the commission, to reach an interinstitutional agreement – hopefully before the end of this year – on better law-making. of course, better law-making is not the answer to all our problems: better law-making will not solve the crisis in greece; better law—making is not the way to tackle putin. i accept all these points. but better law-making is a way of trying to answer the plea of an endless number of smes across europe which are telling me whenever i go to a member state: ‘please help us cut red tape; please help us create more clarity; please help us understand that it is possible to create clear legislation, not legislation where member states then have endless possibilities of gold plating so that we are completely lost.’ these are things that are important. they are important to smes; therefore, they are important to employment and to growth. yes, of course this is not earth—shattering – this is not going to change the nature of europe. but it is going to make a difference for hundreds of thousands of people who are trying, day by day, to work very hard to create a living for themselves, their families and the people who work for them. therefore, this is an important thing for me. the way we create legislation is important to hundreds of millions of europeans. even if they do not know it is important to them, it still is, because the outcome is something they have to deal with. and let me be very clear on impact assessment. let me be very clear on more scrutiny. this does not lead to taking away the power of politicians. we do not change that. it leads to better-informed politicians. i do not know what would be the problem with better-informed politicians. better scrutiny and better impact assessment means that the politicians, when they decide, are better informed about what they can decide. i would say to mr eickhout: do not turn things around. do not use the argument that ‘the politicians should be in charge’ to dismiss impact assessment and to dismiss scrutiny. that would be changing the argument you are using against me completely around. both are wrong. the commission does not want to use impact assessment and scrutiny to disempower politicians. on the contrary, we want to help politicians to be better informed. we see across our member states that sometimes scrutiny or analysis leads to a conclusion, and the experts then say this means that this measure is going to be more costly for this or that reason. then parliaments still decide, but we think that this cost is justified for bigger political goals, and therefore we do it anyway. but at least people know what you decide, and i think there is nothing wrong with that. as regards more transparency: i am all for it. but one of the reasons why we – the two institutions – need more transparency is also to show our customers, i.e. the recipients of our legislation, where we are responsible – parliament and commission – and where the member state is responsible. there is still a tremendous amount of gold-plating going on. and again here, member states have the full right to do that. if they want to create stricter legislation, it is entirely up to them – they have the full right to do it. but then do not blame europe for it. be honest about it, be transparent about it. i think the proposals we will discuss in our interinstitutional agreement will help us become more transparent. this also applies – and i say this clearly to mr szájer as well – to delegated acts and implementing acts. there, i hope we can reach an agreement which will create more transparency. as far as the commission is concerned, we will put all draft delegated acts on the internet for a period of four weeks, so that everybody in the outside world can see what we are proposing. for the implementing act it is slightly more difficult, because sometimes – like when you change the price of a product – you cannot give that over for public debate for a long period of time. everyone will understand that. but we will try to put the maximum amount of primary and secondary legislation up for public scrutiny, so that everybody knows what we are doing. hopefully, then, we will avoid another ‘olive oil can’ disaster or something like that. it might help by putting it in the public sphere. of course, we will need to act on a number of things that are very important, and migration is one of them. i am sure tomorrow, when the debates are held on the results of the european council, president juncker will want to come back to this. but the commission sticks to its proposals. we believe, also after debate with your parliament, that we are on the right track with these proposals. if you ask me what the difference between legal and illegal migration is, clearly somebody who is abusing the asylum system because they want a better life in europe is an example of illegal migration. asylum policy should be for people who flee because they fear for their lives. i think we have less support in europe for asylum policy, because many of our citizens know that the system is being abused and because we are not able, if we discover people abusing the system, to make sure they return to the countries they came from. if we want a credible migration and asylum policy, we have to make sure that the rules are actually applied, so that people who deserve asylum get asylum – unfortunately too often the system fails them – and that people who do not deserve asylum are sent back to where they come from, and also that we have agreements with third countries to do that. but we also need – and this is simple demographics – possibilities for the european union to have traditional, legal forms of migration. there needs to be a possibility for people to apply for a visa, at an embassy in the country where they live, to come and live and work in europe. they should not be at the mercy of smugglers, nor should they run the risk of drowning in the mediterranean, but rather they should have a fair chance – if europe needs people like them – to apply and then come to europe. in that sense, i believe legal migration is also part of the solution. let me conclude by saying that for me, the important thing here is that our two institutions work closely together, because i do not think anybody disputes our goal that we should perform better in delivering results for our citizens. sometimes these are huge – big earth-shattering results – but very often they are small results. but a number of small results will create more growth, more jobs, better social protection and a better future for hundreds of thousands of young europeans who are still unemployed today. i think that that is a goal worth fighting for.
the agenda includes the report by sergio gaetano cofferati, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2007/36/ec as regards the encouragement of long-term shareholder engagement and directive 2013/34/eu as regards certain elements of the report on corporate governance (com (2014) 0213 - c7-0147/2014 - 2014/0121 (cod)) (a8-0158/2015)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the colleagues who have contributed to the drafting of this report. they are due thanks and not rituals, because, as they know firsthand, the journey has been very long and difficult. the vote was postponed for the first time in committee. then, after the committee had voted, it was sent back to the chamber following a decision by the conference of presidents. the vote scheduled for june in the house has therefore been postponed to july and we shall finally be able to vote tomorrow. we have bought time, but i think it was a wise choice that allowed us to look deeper into the merits of complex and controversial issues, on which there were, quite legitimately, divergent opinions. so thanks to the shadow rapporteurs of the juri committee, thanks to olle ludvigsson, who was the rapporteur of the econ committee, and to his colleagues who acted as shadow rapporteurs. but before i quickly get to the content of the directive, i would like to say something to the commission. i consider this directive to be a piece of a larger mosaic, one which should correctly and effectively define the profile of the governance of the european enterprise of the future. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. we're working in the direction he pointed out. it is hard work, but it is very positive. today we are dealing with the shareholders, then we will have to move on to the stakeholders to give the company the social dimension that the then president referred to, or rather built with his proposal. i therefore expect the commission to take further initiatives of this kind in this direction. in the meantime, as i said, we have managed to define the long-term orientation of the companies and their shareholders and, above all, to increase transparency on key elements of the management of the company, its corporate governance. we have agreed and it is very important that companies can identify their shareholders; i am, of course, talking about publicly traded companies. measures to improve shareholders' voting rights are also envisaged: it is not only an element of democracy but also an element of efficiency in the management of any enterprise. the transmission of information along the chain of intermediaries will also make the work of shareholders more effective and also more aware. then there are measures which, if properly applied, can increase the transparency of the relationship between institutional investors, asset managers and companies, so that the commitment policy defines for companies their return, in the short term but especially in the long term, thus avoiding the risk of being used simply for financial purposes. there are also measures that will increase the transparency of the activity of proxy advisors, an important function in any system. now, we have thereby confirmed the transparency requirements that were envisaged by the commission. and that, i believe, is an effective and conscious choice. the same applies to transactions for related parties, which must be subject to controls which will be differentiated according to the legislative system of each member state of the union. the changes which parliament is proposing will therefore make it possible to take account of these national differences without these becoming a factor in calling into question the unity of european policies. there is also the issue of directors' remuneration, which has been widely discussed. we were very much in agreement on this subject, but there were differences of opinion on how to give it the right substance. we have found the solution to the case and the shareholders will vote but their vote may be binding or advisory, depending on the decisions taken by each country. and last but not least, the country-by-country reporting. the fight against tax evasion can and must be done through the use of new instruments: the annual reporting of publicly traded companies is one of them. the kaili report had already suggested this: we have used this route, that of the shareholder directive, as the first legislative appointment to introduce a hypothesis of an immediate revision of the accounting directive. i would like to thank again all those who have contributed to this report and i shall of course be very interested in your comments.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mr cofferati for his hard and good work. the european parliament will have the opportunity tomorrow to adopt a report which could represent a breakthrough in corporate governance, at least on the ethical and managerial level. we believe that it is of the utmost importance to introduce strict rules on management transparency, effective control of the remuneration of managers and their link to the actual performance of the company they direct. in this connection, and in our view particularly relevant, the introduction of the principle that ethically responsible managers can be rewarded for their commitment on the basis of programmes and achievements in the field of corporate social responsibility is particularly relevant. another point of order, which we cannot abandon, is the adoption of rules to combat tax evasion and avoidance, such as the obligation for companies to declare publicly in which countries they pay taxes. the new rules on corporate governance will certainly benefit citizens, serious and ethically responsible businesses and ultimately the european economic system, to the detriment of the financial speculators who have sunk the economy, causing a crisis from which europe is unfortunately still struggling to emerge.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur's efforts are certainly commendable, but we are still very far from achieving true economic democracy here in europe, especially in company meetings, including representation of small shareholders in at least one third of the board of directors. and from this point of view, why not think about establishing primary elections to allow a real direct representation of the legitimate interests of small shareholders, who often represent the workforce, the savers, to whom we should give more attention and more power? freedom of expression must also be guaranteed in assemblies, by sanctioning companies and managers who prevent or restrict it illegitimately. the commitments for the parties concerned to ensure greater transparency of the financial statements and thus of information, external parties, the list of controlled companies, etc., taking into account the differences still existing between the various member states, are certainly important. all this, if it is achieved and taken further, will help, or rather would help, to give confidence to citizens and consumers, to investors, including institutional investors, helping to eliminate or at least to limit the heavy veil of opacity that surrounds the activities of large companies, especially multinational companies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday i made another appeal to the principles of transparency, consistency and the protection of savings, so that they can be the basis of any economic reform. this report contributes to the respect of the principles of public trust and adds an important element: the complex relationship between shareholders and corporate governance. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial markets are not affected by the crisis. the risks that shareholders have taken in short-term investments are well known, but less well known is the inadequate level of disclosure in participating companies by institutional investors and asset managers. this inadequacy and lack of clarity contributes to reducing the time horizon of long- to medium-term investment and, as a consequence, instead of being a lever, becomes a limitation on the achievement of the company's financial and non-financial results. the issue of disclosure is a key issue in a fragile european framework such as the present one.
member of the commission.– madam president, honourable members, i would like to respond briefly to the discussion on country—by—country reporting. i would like to be very clear about that. i fully agree with all of you who expressed here the need for more tax transparency. it is also the priority of the commission, including the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance. so the commission says yes, but we must address this problem through another piece of legislation. this is the shareholder rights directive, and we are planning and working intensively on new legislation which will be fully focused on tax transparency. as i said before, we are now working on the analysis. we need a thorough analysis in order to be sure, for instance, that we will not increase the administrative burden, that we will reduce or cut red tape, and that we will do this in the most efficient way, expecting the best possible results. all that we need is some more time. as i said before, we plan to have the impact assessment ready next spring. so this is the position of the commission. i wanted to thank you for your discussion. many of you said that this is a directive which can enhance competitiveness and economic growth. so i would like to thank you for all your opinions and i count on your continued support in the voting.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i want to thank the members who have spoken, not just for what they have said, but for how they have said it. the work we have done, which has been long and arduous, has created this positive atmosphere, in which the sharing of objectives is combined with the search for the best technical solution in a climate, however, of great collaboration, which was not taken for granted and which has instead been achieved. and this is due to the goodwill, availability and intelligence of all the shadow rapporteurs and then, as we have seen, also of the colleagues in the house. i would say that our objective remains the same as that contained in the commission proposal, which we have strengthened and reinforced: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not used to finance the restructuring of the steel industry. the investor's continued involvement in the company should therefore be considered a positive choice and should be encouraged as such. on the other hand, we need transparency, we've all said it: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. paying taxes is a duty, even if it's a sacrifice for all: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. but what is paid out is then reused in the stabilization of communities through the development of social protection policies, which are thus paid for. that is why it is an act of civilization, which must be modulated, but modulation is easier when everyone loyally participates in the objective and the resulting contribution. i would remind you, particularly the commission and the commissioner, that the kaili report which we approved in this parliament last march called for country-by-country reporting to be activated through an immediate revision of the accounting directive. the rights directive amends the accounting directive, which is why this is the right place to introduce this innovation, which we will then work on together, starting with the commission. but it's a good place to start.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mr ivo belet, for the excellent work he has done in reaching agreement and concluding this dossier. i also thank the commissioner for his work and cooperation. the final agreement struck a good balance between environmental policy and industrial policy. we have introduced important measures to offset the additional costs for businesses of european climate legislation. i would like to mention in particular the provisions on carbon leakage and the innovation fund, which will receive 50 million co2 allowances. to consolidate this necessary combination of climate change and industrial policy, the ets reform will need to find a good compromise, particularly in two respects. so, looking ahead, we will have to worry about agreeing on the allocation to energy-intensive industries and compensation for the indirect costs of the increase in the price of co2. i hope that the number of allocations for energy-intensive industries will not be revised downwards: we must protect our industries and especially those sectors which are at risk of being relocated. as regards the compensation of indirect costs, a harmonised solution at european level is needed. the current system is not working and is creating distortions of competition between member states with negative effects for european industry. i hope that the commission will take these suggestions into account in the reform of the ets. of course, it's important to achieve the 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, but we also have to remember that there is another goal: the manufacturer must generate at least 20% of european gdp by 2020. without industry, there is no work.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the second attempt to try to fix a broken instrument: the ets, a system that starts from the foolish assumption that through the market, serious and effective climate policies can be implemented. in fact, looking at the situation, we see that the current system has in no way encouraged companies to invest in new technologies. and ets brings with it a series of disastrous side effects. firstly, financial speculation, because the stock market has enriched financial brokers to the detriment of the environment. in addition, the scams: the european court of auditors has drawn up a report on the exposure of the credit market to illegal activities because of the intangible nature of securities. finally, the question of human rights. in developing countries, projects are being carried out which are immorally and illegitimately called sustainable, in total disregard of the human rights of the people who live there. so, such a system, so rotten that even the pope has called for the role of the financial world to be scaled back and for the human dimension of the problem to be given greater prominence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would also like to say, mr minister, that they too have played a major role in reaching this agreement. i think it is appropriate in this house to thank mr belet and all the coordinators of all the political groups, not forgetting the presidency of the council, because it has played an important role in reaching an agreement which is the best possible agreement in this context. i heard someone in the course of the debate criticizing the ets system: we already knew that the ets system was not perfect and that it obviously needed to be revised. but this is a review of the system: the market stability reserve is to bring the co2 value back to levels that are acceptable and that can actually provide an incentive for the industrial system to move towards sustainability and emission reductions. it is clear that we are talking today about the market stability reserve which i hope will be approved tomorrow by all the political groups in this house but one thing is certain: we are talking about this system on the eve of its revision. commissioner, you have made a commitment, we are sure you will honour it, but we are sure that it is necessary to give, before the cop21 in paris, a strong signal from a europe that wants to be still a leader in the fight against climate change and that wants to give an indication, also with the instrument we will vote tomorrow, about a strong will to have a sustainable future for our industrial system.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the long economic crisis has weakened and put the ets system in crisis. the price of co2 emission allowances has become too low and this low price has not incentivised innovation and eco-sustainable conversion processes. that is why the stabilization reserve is good, a fair price, certainty for businesses; the 50 million quota fund to support low-carbon industrial innovation projects is good. this is the right way, a way that does not conflict with the environment, the fight against climate change with the productive future of our country and europe. the stabilization reserve is, however, a necessary but not sufficient measure; we need to reform the ets now. we have noted the commitments you have made, commissioner. we need the reform we need before paris.
vice-president of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank mr fernandes for putting forward a very thoughtful mandate for the 2016 draft budget for parliament’s participation in forthcoming negotiations. as you said, many have contributed to coming up with a thorough description of which priorities, why these priorities and how best we can make use of the funding we have at our disposal. we support the priorities that parliament has outlined. yes, we need to focus on a revival of our economy. you call it the three e’s – employment, enterprises and entrepreneurship. we need this if we want to see europe growing again, and growing to a point that allows us to strive for both higher competitiveness and a better quality of life for our people. you have been very supportive of the key initiatives of the commission, including the investment plan. we have just adopted an amending letter, and i am very grateful that it is based on the agreement we have achieved and that we can put it forward. we also agree with you that, in addition to focusing on growth, we have to retain solidarity at home and with those who count on us in dire circumstances outside the european union, especially people who are escaping wars and especially when this also turns into an eternal problem for the european union. this is why, as we have put forward the payment appropriations, we have been very precise in where we need to have an increase in budgets, especially in terms of payments, so we can underpin these priorities. we have eur 143.5 billion, or a 1.6% increase in total payments, to trim down the shortage of payments from previous years, and we have concentrated on areas where the needs are most profound. for example, in heading 4 we have proposed a 28.5% increase, and for erasmus, we have proposed a 30% increase. in the philosophy that we have put forward, what dominates is that we are asking for what is needed – no more, no less – and we count on parliament to support us in this prudent approach to the budget. i want to stress that, with the encouragement of parliament, we have been improving our forecast capabilities. this allows us, together, to make the best possible allocation of our scarce resources and to manage payments in the future, so that the drama we had in 2014 will not be repeated. i want to take this opportunity to thank you for this whole vote today on our amending budgets and the payment plan. obviously we count in the future on that firm execution of commitments we make to our citizens. if we say we drew on that schedule, we drew on the schedule we have agreed and with the objectives that we have agreed. i am looking at the forthcoming first trilogue on 14 july as a place where we will together promote exactly this responsibility to our citizens, putting our money where our mouth is.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we thank you for what you have done, but i believe that there is still much more to be done. of course, i would like to thank mr fernandes for his work. the budgetary experience of recent years unfortunately teaches us that the lack of payment appropriations often prevents the implementation at cruise speed of some programmes which have difficulties and delays, as for example the life programme. on behalf of the envi committee i would ask that the resources allocated to all the headings on the environment, public health and food safety, although limited in number, be in line with the multiannual programming and at least be maintained at the levels of previous years. we also have a number of programmes under heading 3, which are related to consumer protection and civil protection, and we ask that they be given the attention they deserve, given their great usefulness in terms of their impact on the lives of citizens. one last note for the agencies only: the envi committee monitors a number of agencies which frequently acquire external resources to carry out their work. the staffing programme of the agencies often conflicts with the objectives themselves.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr fernandes for the work he is doing and for the conviction and dedication with which he is working on this project. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i would like to stress that gender equality must be promoted in all european union policies. i would ask mr fernandes to stress during the trilogue the importance of allocating funds to programmes to support women's entrepreneurship, such as the cosme programme, the european social fund and the youth employment initiative. in addition, in the light of the many femicides and acts of violence suffered by women on a daily basis, i stress the importance of increasing spending to support awareness-raising campaigns against gender stereotypes and above all the need and importance of continuing the daphne programme.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the cross-border nature of the threats to the internal security of the european union requires measures and instruments of the same nature: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environmentally sensitive products. criminal groups, especially those of the mafia type, are the first to take advantage of the gaps in cross-border law enforcement activities. migrant and human trafficking, arms trafficking, drug trafficking and environmental and financial crimes have or are having a huge human, social and economic impact, affecting fundamental rights, health and the environment. organized crime, with its ability to infiltrate the legal economy and to pollute institutions, has a strong influence on political and economic decision-making. the european institutions and agencies, member states and relevant civil society actors must play a key role in raising the level of internal security by identifying and implementing common tools to combat, while respecting fundamental rights, the financial operations of criminal networks and the freezing and confiscation of illicit assets and resources.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of european action in the field of security, which has been made more pervasive as a result of the lisbon treaty, the security agenda certainly provides a good framework: it sets out a set of principles, strategic priorities and guidelines consistent with current needs and the changed institutional framework. however, this framework must be supplemented by concrete and effective measures at both legislative and operational level. this is why we need - and i am glad that the presidency of the council has already mentioned it - a roadmap which, while paying constant attention to the timeliness of the threats, sets out the steps to be taken and the timeframe for them, and also valid criteria for monitoring the progress of the implementation of the measures, including the establishment of a political cycle of the union on security. the commissioner has now again stressed that security must remain a priority. however, institutional mechanisms need to be introduced to ensure effective compliance with the five key principles of the agenda. it would be very useful if the data protection package, in particular the directive on criminal authorities, were adopted before the end of the year, and if the feasibility study on confiscation without conviction were presented as early as this year. it is a fundamental measure to combat not only organised crime but also money laundering, corruption and the financing of terrorism more generally. finally, i believe that a serious assessment of the current instruments and their shortcomings is urgently needed as a prerequisite for a better use of the legislation of the existing instruments, adapting the human and financial resources of the european agencies as necessary, but also for the creation of new standards and instruments and structures where necessary, as for example in the case of the european public prosecutor's office, as rightly reiterated in the same agenda for security.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states can be a powerful tool to counter the effects of a crisis which has burned millions of jobs and literally destroyed the lives of tens of thousands of people. and the stronger and more widely shared the document we succeed in adopting, the more difficult it will be for the council to ignore it. we cannot allow the mistakes of the past to be repeated. the guidelines have not been followed and the situation has actually worsened over the last five years. yet, historically, european efforts have been focused on the continuous improvement of the living and working conditions of its peoples: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) in order to facilitate the development of the european medicines agency. nevertheless, the union has thrown turbulence into the economy and finance, while leaving in the background the urgency of policies essential to ensure recovery and a dignified life for european citizens. the structural reforms and budgetary policies have produced an unsustainable situation, with stagnation and deflation in many member states, especially in the euro zone, with dramatic realities, as we can unfortunately see in several states, particularly in italy, portugal and greece. the europe 2020 strategy itself calls for us to create the conditions for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, aiming at increasing the employment rate, creating quality and quantity of lasting jobs, reducing the school drop-out rate and increasing the level of tertiary education. support measures for the unemployed are needed, but also accompanying measures for reintegration into employment, through the retraining of skills and actions that stimulate lifelong learning. i also believe that it is necessary to define definite indications of the absolute poverty that affects millions of europeans. we cannot continue to talk about the risk of poverty. poverty is outside and it is gripping the lives of so many people, condemning them to an existence of hardship and deprivation. i believe that action must be taken to reduce poverty, with the aim of lifting at least 20 million people out of the uncertainty and anguish that their living conditions bring. the introduction of a minimum income in all member states is necessary to combat poverty and social exclusion, as president juncker and commissioner thyssen have already stated. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of life of the elderly. we can propose effective and shared policies to combat unemployment, with measures aimed at favouring not only small and mediumsized enterprises but also micro enterprises, innovative start-ups and companies aiming at the green economy. we can speak out to reduce the segmentation of the labour market through a restructuring of collective bargaining and the involvement of the social partners, countering undeclared work and precarious employment. we can reduce discrimination in access to the labour market. we can facilitate the mobility of workers where this is an opportunity. we can help develop sustainable, safe, adequate pension systems for women and men, with schemes that guarantee decent income support. we can re-introduce the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in the guidelines, significantly increasing the employment of citizens. we can put the founding principles of economic, social and cultural union back at the centre by creating jobs, cohesion and inclusion. we can now! i hope, therefore, that there will be a clear expression from this parliament, because 500 million european citizens expect an effective response: let us answer that question together.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the dichotomy between economy and ecology has been reinforced over time by the successive logic and policies of maximising profits, production and consumption. we are finally realizing that, following the alarming signals coming from our planet, the two dimensions, the economic and the ecological, coexist and not only create wealth and employment synergistically. and we're talking about some really important numbers here: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union's energy policy. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, i would like to mention some of the most important measures, which have been taken up by mrs lambert, and i am very happy to hear her say so, namely the elimination of all direct and indirect subsidies which are harmful to the environment, including those for fossil fuels, the shifting of taxation from labour to environmental pollution and the use of resources in the spirit of the polluter pays principle. finally, the introduction of a system of tax relief for smes, the real backbone of europe, through appropriate tax relief instruments for those companies producing products and services with high environmental added value.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's response to the unemployment crisis has so far been unsatisfactory. we have welcomed this own-initiative report on green jobs, because we believe that it can be an effective tool for economic recovery in europe. the aim is to find a solution to two of the main obstacles: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment. however, it is important to remember to protect women's access to green employment. we women are underrepresented in the technological and scientific disciplines which are strategic for environmental issues and for entrepreneurship in general and we often have lower salaries, with equal skills and responsibilities. as mothers, we are the ones who are most sensitive to environmental policies and our involvement can certainly add value. i therefore call on the commission to work with the member states to implement a really active policy on green employment for women and to ensure that the principle of equal opportunities is fully respected.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall use these two minutes simply to thank the members who have given me the opportunity to demonstrate that it does not matter where you sit in this parliament if you want to represent the citizens and their demands. i thank them for having believed, in giving me an opportunity, to test what might have been the skills and competence that a small delegation of citizens has put at the disposal of this parliament. so first of all, i want to thank georges bach, maria joão rodrigues, zdzisław krasnodębski, neoklis sylikiotis and tatjana ždanoka, for believing that i could be a resource and for giving me the opportunity to collaborate. i would like these names, my name and yours, to appear in this report, which i believe is the result of the work we have shared with all of you, to be the names of the 500 million citizens whom we represent. i would like to see the name of the european citizens written in this report, because i believe that this document is able to represent their demands, their sufferings, their needs, their needs. so the more support that is shared, the less we're going to look at who's presenting something, but the ideas that are being presented, because it's the ideas that change. i believe that this parliament has enormous potential if it can go beyond the allocated seats in this house. i congratulate jean lambert on his excellent work. we have supported it and we will continue to do so. i also thank commissioner thyssen because, although we do not always agree on many points, i know that she understands the voice of those whom i and my colleagues represent.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today the fight against tax evasion and avoidance is finally at the heart of the european debate and is becoming a priority. but in an age when huge flows of capital can be moved easily from one part of the world to the other with the click of a mouse, it is clear that these are global challenges and that to overcome them we need global tools of confrontation and global solutions, to re-establish a very simple principle: taxes are paid where profits are generated. in this european year of development, we will make decisions that shape the world we leave to future generations: the new sustainable development goals, the climate conference and, in a few days' time, the third international conference on financing for development in addis ababa. these ambitious objectives will only be achieved if we ensure adequate financing through official development assistance but also through a more effective mobilisation of national resources. and that is where taxation and the fight against tax evasion and avoidance become crucial. estimates are cautious, but it is estimated that illicit financial flows out of developing countries amount to as much as a trillion dollars a year. a shocking fact: almost ten times the total of development aid; resources withheld from services to citizens. the obstacles facing developing countries in combating tax evasion and avoidance are numerous. and they themselves tend to grant incentives and exemptions in a ruthless tax competition which is harmful to them. with this report we are asking the commission to come up with a real action plan to support developing countries in creating more robust and fairer tax systems. we therefore call for increased support for the developing countries, by providing financial and technical assistance, which is still insufficient. we call for the transformation of the un tax committee into a genuine intergovernmental body with additional resources to finally ensure that developing countries participate on an equal footing in the reform of the global tax system. we call for support for international initiatives for the reform of the global tax system, such as the beps process promoted by the oecd; but we must take greater account of the needs of developing countries. two instruments are of particular importance: we call for the adoption of the country by country reporting standard for multinational companies in all sectors, including the mining sector, and for complete information to be made available to all countries and made public. it is time for the commission to make a proposal to that effect. i would be surprised if tomorrow someone voted against what we have already unanimously approved in committee. in addition, when automatic exchange of information is applied, a transition period should be provided for countries that have not yet fully developed the necessary capacity to collect and share all the required information. we also call for transparency on the actual ownership of companies, trusts and similar institutions. there is the longstanding problem of tax treaties between developed and developing countries, which do not ensure the equitable distribution of tax rights between the country of residence and the country of source. the model developed under the auspices of the un provides a more balanced approach. we also call for the impact assessments of european tax policies on developing countries to be carried out in order to strengthen policy coherence for development and for a definition of tax havens at international level by 2015 with a blacklist and sanctions. i was surprised that someone wanted a separate vote, i thought we all agreed here that this problem must be taken seriously. and last but not least, let's pay special attention to gender issues: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, including the introduction of a new system of social security for women. i thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their spirit of cooperation and also the secretariat and my office for their support. i hope that tomorrow this report will be adopted by the largest possible majority, so that the voice of this parliament can be heard before addis ababa and so that we can show that we are at the forefront of the fight against global flight and avoidance, and that we can have a development agenda that is truly ambitious and capable of tackling the root causes of poverty and inequality.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by congratulating mrs schlein on the excellent work she has done on this important report. it is true what president mcavan said: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the fact that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area, but that we should be concerned about the fact that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area. well, if there was a good level of combating evasion and avoidance, we would have all those resources. the report is well done, ambitious in some ways, calling for workable standards and other important elements such as the country by country system, technical assistance to countries, as well as the creation of an intergovernmental body. i agree with the rapporteur, and i hope that the vote in the committee on development will be followed by a unanimous vote in the house.
member of the commission.– madam president, thank you for your great interest in the financing for development agenda ahead of the addis conference, and for your valuable ideas, proposals and opinions. i agree that the european union must keep up its level of ambition and commitments on oda, including through the implementation of the development effectiveness principles. i also welcome your comments on issues that go beyond oda. for me, this is exactly where real progress can be made through the post-2015 framework. on the question of monitoring and follow-up, we must remain ambitious. the european union already has a comprehensive annual accountability exercise in place to monitor progress. indeed, the 2015 edition of the report was published last month. but we should also reflect on how we can strengthen that process, within the context of a wider post-2015 monitoring and accountability framework. at this stage, we must also reflect on what the european union will do to support the implementation of the financing for development outcome and the post-2015 agenda. we are carefully considering how the european union’s policies might need to be reviewed to help promote the new agenda. the principle of policy coherence for development becomes more relevant than ever. the european union must be ready to deliver on a solid set of actions to implement the post-2015 agenda. this includes a comprehensive approach to supporting domestic resource mobilisation in developing countries and tackling tax avoidance and tax evasion. we will take the actions proposed in parliament’s report into careful consideration, and we welcome your continued engagement in this regard.
president of the council. madam president, i would first like to thank the rapporteur for this report, which has enabled us to have a really good debate, which is an important contribution to the preparations for the meetings in addis ababa and new york. i would also like to highlight the work of the commissioner and the importance of the fight against tax evasion. the solutions must be international. as your speeches have shown and confirmed, the position of the european union and its member states on the purpose of this conference is clear. addis ababa should not be a conference devoted solely to the issue of official development assistance. the need for an integrated approach to all means of implementation, financial and otherwise, should be emphasized. it is obvious that official development aid must remain an important source of finance, particularly for the least developed countries and fragile states, provided, as has been said, that it is effective and well-targeted, well-used. i think we need to broaden the scope and think about what has been said about creating development. education is, of course, a pillar of development policy, but also the creation of jobs and businesses - and i am thinking above all of the social sector, social enterprises. apart from official development assistance, alternative financing, such as microfinance, must also be supported. in this spirit, the presidency, with the strength of the results which have been mentioned, is fully committed to making these international negotiations a success and to ensuring that we are able to generate a genuine international partnership.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the commissioner for his willingness to discuss the report during these months of work and for his commitment to consider our proposals. i wanted to tell him - he knows this because we have been discussing this for a long time - that we remain convinced that the creation of a truly intergovernmental body is the only way to ensure full representation for the developing countries. today the un fiscal committee has only 25 members: it would be important to know that those sitting here are entitled to speak on behalf of their government. this would be a qualitative leap in the process of reforming the global system and sometimes, if i may say so, form is substance. so i hope that tomorrow's vote will help to unblock the debate to reach an ambitious document on this subject in addis ababa. i would also like to thank the council, of course, and also president mcavan for pointing out that country-by-country reporting is an indispensable tool in the serious fight against tax evasion and avoidance. that is why it is at the heart of our action plan and i really hope that all the groups will support it tomorrow, as they did in the committee, to give a strong signal. i would also like to thank all the members who have contributed to the debate, not forgetting all the aspects which, although not mentioned, are obviously in the text of the report. it is not just a question of improving the mobilisation of internal resources: this also leads to strengthening governance, transparency, accountability to citizens and certainly also the fight against corruption, which is mentioned several times in the text, and therefore, in essence, also to ensuring, in the long term, greater independence from foreign aid. i really thank you all again for your contribution and i hope that the report will get the highest possible majority in the vote tomorrow.
the luxembourg presidency has a huge task ahead of it. as has been pointed out, the greek crisis is upon us, and everything must be done to reach an agreement. i repeat: we do not even want to think about the idea that there is no agreement, because that would have catastrophic consequences for the european union and would even change its programme in certain respects. too many european councils have disappointed our citizens in recent months, while citizens expect strong answers from europe. i have spoken about greece, but it is not just that, i am also thinking about immigration. the commission has presented a bold plan, which for the first time provides for a mechanism for sharing refugees at european level. the council has slowed down. it is now your turn, mr president, to take up this matter again. we want a mandatory solidarity mechanism between the member states. solidarity for us also means taking back the social agenda. you mentioned the triple a of president juncker's programme, in particular the issue of worker mobility. we must do everything we can to stop social dumping. solidarity means implementing the investment plan for growth and jobs. solidarity means working with high representative federica mogherini for a decisive role for europe in the world. solidarity also means making a major effort to support the social economy. we are faced with the big question of our development model. every effort should be made to accelerate the transition to a green and circular economy. the paris conference may be the last chance to reach an agreement on climate change. we ask this presidency to work with the commission to reach an ambitious agreement, of course with parliament. mr president, you have also been a dear friend for many years and we are well aware of the quality, competence and commitment that your government has already shown to a great extent. we are therefore convinced that he will be able to meet such demanding challenges and will certainly have the support of the socialists and democrats in the european parliament.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced today with the past and present of luxembourg. i have read the programme of this presidency and felt a predictable sense of disgust. a few lousy lines about tax evasion. on tax rulings, shameful agreements that have allowed hundreds of large companies to pay paltry taxes in the grand duchy for decades, while making huge profits in other eu countries: i'm not doing anything! for us, hundreds of billions of euros of damage; you're alone again, in the deafening silence of today. president juncker, you led the eurogroup at the height of the economic crisis. you are one of the greatest architects of austerity and rigor. today he is pontificating, like others, on the future of greece. but he has not found the courage to eliminate the shameful tax engineering that we consider to be a social hell. if this is your sense of community, it confirms that you are the anti-europeanists! when you're alone in your office at night and think about the social butchery of these years, what image do you see of your conscience reflected in the bottom of the glass? what do you whisper in your grandchildren's ears when you talk to them about europe? do you have the courage to tell him that the wealth of luxembourg, of your country, is built on the protection of tax evaders, on our sick thrown like garbage in the corridors of dilapidated hospitals, on the suicides of pensioners and honest entrepreneurs, on families without water and without light, on the future denied to the generations of the mediterranean? this presidency should apply the rigour of the law in returning these resources to us so that we can implement a social compact to support the weakest and small businesses. if you do not have that dignity, then take another thirty denarii, the thirty denarii for betraying the european dream. shame on you!
the debate is closed. the sitting was suspended at 9.35 a.m. and resumed at 9.55 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
i would like to say this from the outset: we are not going to be able to do that. (applause from the group of the european people's party) greece is an essential part of europe and the euro area. without greece in the eurozone, europe would no longer be itself. that is why we have opposed and continue to oppose the extremists and political speculators who are playing on the skin of greece and europe. i could quote the sudden statements of varoufakis or the extreme positions of schäuble. i could reply to some of what mr weber said. but i would prefer to emphasize the sobriety, the seriousness and the constructivity of president juncker, who has worked all these months to find a positive solution. today is not the time for apologies, friends of friends... the turmoil we are living through is too serious for that and it is too serious to turn this house into a typhus hall. this is no time to divide this house! this is not the time to divide the european institutions! it's time to unite them! because it is not the fortunes of a political party that are at stake, but the fortunes of europe, including greece. i agree with weber on one point. mr tusk, you made a good speech today. but it is not possible that the most important european institution, which is the parliament, should not see its president participate in the euro summits. so i'm formally asking you to invite president schulz to your meetings. president tsipras, you are not a member of any party, but i feel european at this moment, and as a european i say to you that, for the sake of europe, we socialists will never accept a grexit. i never will! in the last few hours, hope has been rekindled. i see a constructive attitude on the part of everyone. the attitude of the heads of state and government yesterday was very good. the greek political forces must be united around a possible solution. i think that the conditions are right for an agreement to be reached this week. the deal was already there. it requires a clear commitment from your government to make reforms. support for development and employment, reform of public administration, fight against corruption and evasion, liberalisation: these are not measures that the motherland of europe wants, but measures that the greek people need! and i think it is also right to discuss debt restructuring, which is not a compulsion but a commitment made by the creditors in 2012, which we must honour today and i also think we should think about a european debt conference, which discusses the redemption fund and debt mutualisation. i think that on this basis a bridge loan should be authorized to give the greek people breathing space and to put the negotiators in a position to reach a medium-term agreement. mr president, those who read the history of these days must be able to read that in this parliament, in the european institutions and in the greek authorities there were women and men who were able to put aside their coats, their political affiliation, to make an act of responsibility and constructivity, to save greece and to save europe. (applause from the group of the european people's party)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is facing two major challenges: the commission has already taken a number of measures to deal with the problem of migration. in this context, the role played by the european institutions has produced highly disappointing results, which are undermining the principles and values on which the union is founded and threatening its very credibility and existence. what is happening to migrants at the italian and other borders, and the victory of the 'no' vote in the greek referendum, clearly teaches us that the european project that has been achieved so far must be renewed profoundly and quickly, otherwise it will be doomed to failure. we cannot imagine building and supporting a europe in which national selfishness prevails over adequate solidarity, imposing disproportionate burdens on the states which are under greater migratory pressure. and that is the meaning of a letter that the five star movement delegation has sent to you, president tusk, which i do not know if you are listening to. we cannot regard as an enemy of europe a people who speak out to reassert their dignity, who do not want to be slaves to austerity policies, to banks, to international finance, to lobby interests. a europe of the peoples, with a renewed sense of community, is possible and it is the duty of all to try to rebuild it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am ashamed that someone in this chamber claims to represent europe. i am ashamed that someone in this room is running 500 million people, leaving a future of war and unemployment for our citizens. i thank tsipras and i thank the greek people. we're on different political sides. i blame him for not going all the way and therefore not questioning this european union which is an anti-democratic cage, this single currency which makes no sense at all. but i thank him for showing that the king is naked. i feel sorry for someone who, in the name of the largest party represented in this parliament, speaks with disgust and contempt of the referendum, of the citizens who vote, of the citizens who choose, because, incidentally, if the citizens vote and choose, then they may fail the idiotic choices of this europe, as they voted against in france ten years ago. as they voted against in holland. how they'll vote in denmark. how they're going to vote in the uk. i am afraid of this europe which supports sanctions against russia, which puts 2 million jobs at risk and which has 40,000 armed men in our house while someone is cutting the throat of his neighbour in the name of his god. but there is some phenomenon in here that claims that the problem is not islamic terrorism but the right, the populists, orbán, le pen, cameron, the northern league. you're in the hospital. you are dangerous. i want a europe based on work, respect for human rights, agriculture and fisheries, which does not approve of the disgusting international treaties that serve the multinationals and not our citizens and workers. the roof is coming down on you. i thank tsipras, i thank the greek people and i thank the citizens who have chosen with courage to come out of this cage, because i am not leaving the future of my children in the hands of someone who hates democracy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a grexit would be a very serious blow to the european union, not only financially and geopolitically, but also ethically, politically and morally. this is the time for the ruling classes of the union to show a stature equal to that of their predecessors who were able to be statesmen and look beyond the contingency and the belly of their electorate. the starting point is facts. first of all: the esm was built to safeguard the stability of the euro area and is full of resources it gets resources, among other things, at very low interest rates so no european citizen will have to pay a single euro and you, mr weber, would do well to tell the truth and not stir up fears. secondly: the ems operates on a conditionality basis, so we need a serious agreement on reforms. everyone here wants to suggest their own recipes: but it would be good to remember - and you mr tsipras should remember this first, instead of just talking about the referendum - that on 30 june you personally signed a letter welcoming the detailed list of measures proposed by the creditors and deservedly published by the commission on its website. the five amendments proposed by greece clearly cannot be the end of the negotiations and it is therefore urgent that you submit new additional proposals immediately. at the same time, it is good to know that there is already agreement on the basic conditions of the new programme and the differences would clearly not justify a grexit and a european ruling class worthy of the name would certainly be able, with political will, to bridge the gap that currently exists between the commission proposal and the five amendments. otherwise, we would all be taking on ourselves, including you, of course, a very serious historical responsibility.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take up the words spoken in this house yesterday by president juncker: the greeks and greece can count on the european union. i thank the president for his words, which express the sentiments of this house. but you see, mr president, once again you have come here and said nothing concrete: just a lot of words that, theoretically, are also shareable but we need concrete. she says: i've only been in government for five months. well, let's look at some hard facts: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area. today, cancellations travel at a rate of fifty thousand a day. in italy, we have also calculated that each citizen has put 600 euros into his own pocket. we have always been convinced that in order to combat unemployment and to restore growth to europe, we must put the revival of industry and small and mediumsized enterprises back at the centre of economic policy. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's financial system. but, you see, it is because we believe in all this that we do not support his economic policy today, because it is harming the greek people and it is harming the whole of the european union as a result. let's go around a table. we shall come back with concrete proposals. let's figure this out together. our citizens are asking for it. your citizens, the greeks, are asking for it first. someone said we were at the theater. if this were a play, you'd be a tragic example of hybris, only you wouldn't be the one to take the fall. the greek people, the european people are paying for it and will continue to pay more and more if you do not change your tune and come here with concrete proposals. together we find the way!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we socialists and democrats are among those who do not resign ourselves to throwing in the towel, with an expression we use in italy to say who wants to give up; we are among those who - as mr pittella has said very well - feel the historical responsibility of the moment. the responsibility, however, is not only that of the council, the commission or the creditors: the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union. so, you must take a clear position: i am not going to go into the details of the reasons for this. if the package proposed was not socially sustainable, and we are sensitive to that, then you should at last make a reasonable proposal. we are not challenging you, we are asking you. give irrefutable, unequivocal proof that you want to reach a concrete solution. he flees the doubts that still remain, even among his friends, as to what his real intentions are. it's not just greece that's at stake. the european union is at stake, as the italian president of the council has said, and if europe has lost its order of priorities, if it has changed its aims with procedures, if it has lost its raison d'être, if it has weakened the democratic foundations, it is not by chance. if we have come this far - i say this to the members of this house - it is because unity has not been achieved, integration has been stunted and political strength has been called into question by national or even nationalistic regurgitations, as we see in this parliament. and they don't help the bilateral summits in that regard. what then is to be expected from a europe which we have not given the necessary sovereignty? i say this with the strength of a group which has repeatedly called for changes in economic policy, social policy, political and institutional strengthening of the institutions, and we have often been left on our own. i say this to my colleagues who call themselves europeanists. i challenge you to take up this programme and to strengthen and rebuild the challenge of europe together.
yes, thank you, mr president, to say that in a debate like this, i think it is absolutely appropriate that there should be a catch the eye for at least every political group in this house. at least one minute for each group: i think it is fair and just to everyone and, above all, to the pluralism of this parliament. three minutes doesn't change anyone's life.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if diogenes the cynic were to come back to life today, he would walk into this chamber with a lantern and ask us: where is europe? of course, not in the speeches of the austerity hawks, to whom i would remind that almost all of the billions of euros in the rescue plan ended up in the pockets of french, german and, in part, italian banks. it is them you have saved, not the poor, the marginalized of greece whom you have deprived of all dignity. so throw off the mask of hypocrisy. if you're honest with yourself, you know there are two ways: the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial and monetary union. president tsipras, i was in athens on sunday in syntagma square with other colleagues from the five star movement. her people have given her a message of democracy and hope. don't be intimidated by bank lobbyists. oxi to austerity: we owe it to the europe of social justice, we owe it to the future of the mediterranean.
in writing. the greek people, who have been tormented in recent years by the draconian austerity measures imposed by the former troika, have been called to speak out and the response has been unmistakable: no won outright. the signal sent was strong and democratic. for the first time we can speak of a european debate among all citizens. the lack of a european public sphere, of a european debate, is often lamented: the referendum has given a boost to this. from their homes or from syntagma square, citizens followed the debates, the vote and the results of this democratic consultation. now a very difficult game opens for tsipras and his government. for this reason, athens must not be left alone: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i therefore feel that i can express my full solidarity with the greek people for this courageous choice and i am ready to make my contribution as a member of the european parliament to support it. i believe that a revision of the treaties is needed to rethink the governance and rules of the eurozone‬ and put the human person with his dignity at the centre, instead of the failed and astringent budgetary rules.
in writing. i have the utmost respect for the decision taken by the greek people, but less for the political form in which the government in athens has put the whole of the eu's assets at risk by erecting a wall against dialogue and mediation. i now expect president tsipras to show a sense of responsibility and a greater willingness to negotiate, because, whether he likes it or not, the fate of the greek people is in his hands today. i would like to say quite frankly that the priority today is not to save a single country but to save europe. at any cost. i hope, of course, that the parties will reach an agreement and that greece can remain within the euro area, but i believe that the collective interest of the eu partners, not that of any single government, should be given priority at this stage. especially in the face of the greek government's unwillingness to make concrete commitments to reform the country and bring it closer to the parameters required by the eu.
in writing. prime minister tsipras used the ultimate democratic tool, the referendum, to ask the people for their trust in a very delicate decision for their future. tsipras could have used the parliamentary majority that supports him to impose his no line on the creditors' proposal. instead, he decided to defy his creditors and risk his seat in the event of a negative outcome. tsipras, with over 61% of the "oxi", has won a higher approval both among the greek people, albeit in different circumstances than the 36% with which he had come to the helm of the greek government, and in relation to the troika, with which he will now sit strengthened by popular support. this is all the more relevant if we consider that tsipras had to prove that he had the "leader's pulse" vis-à-vis the more "duro-purist" fringes of syriza and its allies. we must also consider that merkel had made the referendum more of a personal challenge than anything else, convinced that a "yes" victory would finally sink any ambition and problem, effectively handing the country back into the hands of any government. in view of all this, this is a remarkable achievement.
in writing. the message sent by the greek people through the referendum on 5 july was unequivocal: the greek people are no longer willing to accept further austerity in exchange for remaining in the eurozone at any cost. but beyond the outcome, by indicating a referendum on a deal imposed from above, greece has also rebelled against the principle that decisions affecting the lives of millions of citizens should be taken, outside any democratic control, in the secret rooms of the eurogroup summits, where credits, not rights, count. in the face of this explosion of democracy, europe has reacted by showing its true face, that of a political project that has renounced its fundamental values, choosing to override democracy, the rule of law and national sovereignty in order to defend the interests of powerful countries and finance. there is still a way to rebuild the europe of the peoples from the ground up: the european union must abandon the insane project of the euro, which, far from accelerating convergence between countries, has accelerated their disintegration, amplifying imbalances and oppositions between strong and weak economies. the european project was dismantled by the blackmail of markets and authoritarian dictates and can now only be rebuilt by betting on democracy, the commons, the real economy, work and social welfare.
in writing. today we have seen that the term 'union' is very inappropriate to be used in conjunction with the concept of europe, and i say this with some regret, but i also acknowledge the reality of the facts. the main political groups, representing the european leaders who are furious with tsipras, have only criticised, and very strongly, the choices made by greece and the greek people. first, they have shown a profound disregard and disinterest in the leader of a democratically elected country, who on sunday received new popular legitimacy to support a certain type of programme. we could argue about whether or not this programme is the solution that will enable greece to recover, which i am very sceptical about, but in any case it is the clear choice of a country that does not accept taxes from above. the fake european union is showing its true face: the face of arrogance and arrogance, ready only to impose dictates and deaf to the demands of the people. greece has only one chance to return to growth and competitiveness: the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to refer to the rules of procedure: this voting list that we're going to vote on ttip has something strange. amendment no 117 applies to paragraph 1 of article 15 but also invalidates our amendment no 40, which refers to article 1 of article 14. now, amendment no 117 tabled by mr lange is not a compromise amendment between various groups, because it is proposed by only one group, the socialist group. article 170 of the rules of procedure clearly states that an amendment cannot have effect on a paragraph other than the one to which it refers. it says that in this case the amendment is inadmissible. if you think that this is a compromise amendment, if you really want to break the rules and consider that an amendment proposed by one group alone is a compromise, i invite you to read rule 174 (4) of the rules of procedure which says that such a compromise must be put to the vote. it is ironic that these amendments speak of isds, that is, of private arbiters who decide without any possibility of appeal and by seizing democracy. it seems to me that this parliament is already a giant isds. mr president, this parliament is not your realm, you cannot shift votes and drop amendments because you do not like them.
mr. president, just to remind you that rules are not made by a majority. rules are rules, and so i find this behavior very strange, today, and not just today, to be honest.
mr president, perhaps i should call your majesty, given the state of affairs today. as regards my reference to rule 170, i have not had an answer. you have answered under rule 174 (4). i would like to have a definition of a 'compromise amendment' because, under rule 170, i think that our amendment no 40 should be put to the vote again, as it is not in the same paragraph as the one we voted for in amendment no 117 lange. article 170 is quite clear on this point. i didn't get an answer; i am not sure that the commissioner has given us a reply to mr jadot, but i have not received his reply to question 170. i would like to know why it is not voted on. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the rapporteur. thank you, mr president, as i have already told the group leaders, i ask that the vote on the legislative resolution be postponed in order to begin negotiations with the council and the commission and to see if it is possible to reach an agreement at first reading.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you seriously think that you can defeat islamic terrorism with this confused and inconsistent jumble of half-measures, many of which are late. firstly, the council does not tell us about the link between terrorism and illegal immigration. yet the president of eurojust now acknowledges that this smuggling is used to finance and infiltrate isis in europe. the religious element is fundamental: the basis of these crimes is the legitimization by extremist islam conveyed by the preaching of imams in mosques and through social media. then, no more half measures! we must close all fundamentalist mosques, as tunisia is doing. enough with the masochism and the islamophobia blah-blah. i was standing outside the charlie hebdo headquarters talking to people a few hours after that very serious attack: no one told me about islamophobia. it's all over the place. this false masochistic anti-racism is actually the trojan horse that the most fundamentalist islam uses to block our immune defenses against a virus that also spreads through the intimidating force of bombings. they want to create fear in the middle of our continent. with islam we are faced not only with a powerful jihadist organization but also with a political actor who, through attacks, dictates his agenda to our countries. they want to impose sharia law across europe through the blackmail of horror and fear. europe, wake up! what are you doing?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our enemy is not identifiable. war in troops scattered around the world; it's unpredictable, it has no face, it has no precise location; it's eluding the space-time coordinates. he 's crept into our routine . it hits beaches, factories, the streets as we go to work and feeds anxiety. our enemy does not defend a land, a treasure or his own family. our enemy has a concept: the misunderstood assumption that religion dominates every aspect of human life and infidels must be punished. to what extent the recent attacks in france, tunisia, somalia, kuwait were coordinated with each other is of little importance. as threats continue to proliferate, we must direct our energies towards the implementation of concrete and urgent initiatives. it's not easy, i'm well aware of that. but i have the impression that when it comes to putting into practice actions to counter the jihadist terror strategy, we get bogged down in political and often muddy discussions. so, fight against radicalization and propaganda and the uncardination of terrorist financing strategies. we need to talk about this a lot more and find some concrete answers together. i conclude with the words of nobel prize winner adolfo perez esquivel, who said that the only hope to defeat terrorism lies in adhering to democratic rules: more democracy and freedom for these countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is born and is formed to be a force for peace and a force to prevent terror, hatred and destruction within and outside its borders. the challenges we are facing are putting our cohesion at serious risk, and this is also the fault of the member states and of those who make choices in relation to countries outside the european union and their own foreign policy. we have a duty to give a new impetus to the joint action of the whole of the european union. we must optimise our security expenditure to encourage cooperation and the exchange of information. we must put into practice policies for social inclusion and, finally, we must fight above all hatred, the hatred which is the cause of the tragedies that have occurred in recent weeks in france, tunisia, kuwait and niger. the european union must get out of the logic of surveillance and punishment. we have this task, we have the duty to respect first of all the fundamental freedoms of women and men in the states which are not part of the european union and then we must be clear about the concept that security cannot be a reason for suspending democracy. that is why i think it is important to ask this parliament to support as actively as possible the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini, and above all her secular turn, because this may be the best way to fight terrorism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent tragic terrorist attacks in various countries of the world must make us reflect even more. we talk about terrorism almost every plenary session. in fact, there are two ways in which we can proceed at this moment. on the one hand, we could follow the evasion of closing in on ourselves, namely, the illusion that we can guarantee our security simply by spending more on weapons, intelligence, security. it can certainly be useful, but i'm afraid you'll end up like that boy who wanted to empty the sea with a shell. we could also be tempted to support authoritarian regimes in the hope that they will solve the problem in the arab world. but that would be a mistake that we would pay for over time, because territorial conflicts would follow even more. we can instead tackle the problem directly, by pushing for moderate islam in europe and in the islamic world to become our greatest ally, the only one capable of really isolating terrorism and this can only be done if it participates in political life. we must therefore rethink our approach to helping these governments to fight against the pockets of poverty, because these are the real fisheries where terrorism is unmistakably fishing.
in writing. we 've said it many times: no country, no region is safe from the threat of terrorism. we have said this to ourselves many times because too often we have been in this chamber listing the dead, commemorating the victims of attacks by the heinous violence inflicted on the innocent. we are all under attack, but unfortunately everyone is only trying to contain the danger. the tunisian prime minister announced today that work has begun on a new wall, following hungary's decision to build one against immigrants. well, walls are up, and this is a defeat for all. more than a desperate and futile attempt to expose the weakness of all of us. no one is exempt. the fight against terrorism does not yet appear to be well coordinated, and the much-heralded joint efforts are not in sight. it is no longer enough to make declarations, or to use the term 'political and military decision-making'. we are promoting new debates to raise awareness here, they will foster dialogue between people and awareness. here are the weapons we have.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to express on behalf of my staff and my group our deepest condolences to the families of the victims, to the government and to the entire tunisian people for the terrorist attacks. these attacks attempt to destroy the heroic struggle of the tunisian people for freedom and dignity; the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. we can't allow that. the tunisian people do not deserve this and we must protect stability, tunisian democracy and the fragile process of political transition. that is why i am asking you, commissioner, and the high representative, federica mogherini, to make a strong political, institutional and moral commitment. the european union must be at the forefront of this! but it must not only do so with the solemnity and authority that are its prerogatives, but also with concreteness. our proposal is a marshall plan for tunisia. tunisia has been hit at the heart of its economy: the tourism sector, which is a key component. we must help them in practical terms because the relationship between the european union and the mediterranean is a fundamental point, a successful point of democratic transformation of those societies. we can't let the terrorists win. we cannot let the fundamentalists win. we cannot give up our euro-mediterranean strategic perspective. that is the meaning of our marshall plan proposal. the socialist and democratic group calls on you and federica mogherini to commit yourselves to this great proposal and its implementation.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 21 dead at the bardo, 38 dead at port el kantaoui, near sousse, a state of emergency in tunisia. the aim of these terrorist attacks is obviously to bring tourism, one of the key sectors of the economy, as much as 10% of gdp, to its knees, as the country has no significant hydrocarbon resources. why this ferocity? the very simple reason: tunisia is unique in the arab world today, the only true democratic transition that is fully, albeit laboriously, taking place in a present of permanent instability in syria as in libya. a transition that frightens many, the terrorists, of course, but also the authoritarian arab regimes, because it fully demonstrates the compatibility between islam and democracy. it 's an inconvenient example: that's why tunisia has so many enemies. but tunisia is also many tunisias: the european union is not a party to the conflict, but a party to the conflict, and it is not a party to the conflict, but a party to the conflict. i have strongly insisted in the afet committee that we have a specific report on this country because i believe it has a value that goes far, far beyond its demographic size and i agree with what president pittella said in arguing that we need a marshall plan: we cannot limit ourselves to areas, important as they are, such as cooperation on migration, security and circular migration. they are fundamental, yes, but they must be given a political, economic, social, broader plan. our expertise is crucial but if we do not also tackle the problem of alleviating the debt pressure, we will not be up to what tunisia deserves today. if we fail, it will again fall into the darkness of authoritarianism or extremism, and risk dragging the maghreb with it. the tunisian people, on the other hand, have a clear will to fully carry out the jasmine revolution: all the political forces we met on the observation mission want this, because they believe in democracy. whether they finally break those chains is also up to us: let's not leave them alone!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, despite our indignation and our condolences, we must say that the attack in sousse, the second in a few months, has had a first important effect: the state of emergency is back in effect. we can regard this decision as a necessary decision but it is good to know that it highlights two specific problems. the first concerns the continuing insecurity in the country, which could seriously destabilize tunisia's future. the second is that the risk of a state of emergency leads to a lowering of civil rights and that is not good for democratic development and the consolidation of the transition process. in this situation we therefore need a commitment to consolidate democracy, especially so that the country can enjoy a period of economic and social development and growth, the only way to defeat terrorism. the role of europe is decisive, as we have already pointed out in several resolutions of this parliament. however, today more needs to be done, much more. tunisia needs more appropriate action. commissioner hahn, you spoke of an ambitious programme: but we're not ambitious yet. we need financial support, just as we have given to ukraine. if we want to be close to tunisia, we must be aware of this new commitment and we must understand that the stability of the region and our security also depend on the institutional and democratic consolidation of the tunisian experiment.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a historic opportunity. finally, after decades, there is a chance to lift the embargo against cuba, an embargo that has forced the cuban people to industrialize over the years: for example, in the pharmaceutical industry, developing a very strong and flourishing herbal medicine industry. cuba is a country where, despite the famine, infant mortality is contained, all in all, at continental levels. but we must not make a big mistake: cuba becomes a land of conquest for us or the americans. we must absolutely avoid that the gradual transition to a capitalist economy is instead a shock transition, a transition to a savage capitalism which today, in the absence of an entrepreneurial class or people capable of managing it, results in even greater inequalities and greater poverty than the crisis already in progress. our duty is therefore to assist the friends of the cuban people and not to repeat the mistake that was made with russia: the agreement must not only be commercial but also political and human rights-oriented, and above all for the benefit of the cuban people, and not aimed at exploiting its resources, let alone the famous hydrocarbons of which so much is said in the gulf.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that when we talk about relations with cuba, there is a great zeal to seek an agreement quickly with this island, the only one with which we do not have an agreement, as if all the countries with which we have agreements were countries where people live very well and we have created conditions for fantastic growth and prosperity. i have many doubts about this and i am very worried that the opening up by the americans could actually mean a great aggression from the capitalist point of view of what has been a place that has certainly stood out for an excellent health system, for an excellent education system and, if it is true that there have been human rights violations, it is also true that the biggest human rights violations on the island of cuba have been committed by the americans at the guantánamo base, although this does not seem to worry us much. so i welcome the progress that is being made in relations with cuba, but we must be very careful to set priorities in these relations.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, let me start by thanking you again for this debate and for this very frank exchange of views that we have had on eu-cuba relations. but may i also say in that context that i take note that, for instance, mr maura barandiarán regretted the absence of mrs mogherini today. may i remind you all of the reason for her absence: it is simply that she is taking part in the viennese iran talks. i hope this is more than a justification and hopefully they can strike a deal as soon as possible. coming back to our debate, i think that, as is usual in this case and for such a subject, the discussions have reflected a very broad range of positions which are not always easy to reconcile. having listened to all the speeches very carefully, i feel that the european union is on the right track with the course adopted in 2014: more and closer engagement with cuba in order to develop our relationship and find peaceful ways of fostering basic eu interests. the conclusion of the political dialogue and cooperation agreement would be a significant step towards this. it would provide an enabling platform for constructive dialogue and for enhancing cooperation. consolidation of our engagement and the relationship of mutual trust are essential to ensure that our relationship evolves in line with our values and interests. the euʼs experience could be greatly relevant for the country in its quest for economic and social modernisation. the eu can demonstrate how to combine a regulated market-based economy with the demands, social protection and participation of citizens. many of you have expressed concerns regarding human rights. we are particularly attentive to this matter and fully share those concerns, as i have already expressed in my introduction. this is why the matter has been raised consistently with our cuban partners, and we have agreed to start discussions on human rights even before the conclusion of the political dialogue and cooperation agreement, to ensure that we have an operational platform for constructive and result-oriented discussions as soon as possible. if europe wants to be part of the historic process that is taking place in cuba, and if we aim at driving this process – if we want to encourage reforms, if we want to have a say on human rights – there is only one thing to do: engage with cuba. that is what we are doing and what we will keep doing in the months and years to come.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in yemen (2015/2760 ((rsp)).
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, i am grateful for the opportunity to discuss, on behalf of federica mogherini, the situation in yemen with you today. amidst the turmoil affecting the middle east, the crisis in yemen calls for more attention from the international community. yemen occupies a strategic position along the gulf of aden and the red sea, at the crossroads of the horn of africa and the middle east, on the route connecting the mediterranean to the indian ocean. there is a real and immediate risk of spillover of this crisis in an already troubled region. furthermore, the latest developments in hadhramaut show that terrorist organisations like al-qaeda in the arabian peninsula, already rooted in somalia, and more recently also daesh, are benefiting from the vacuum of state authority in the country to regroup and regain strength. this is a threat for all countries in the region. the regional powers need to choose cooperation and common security issues. the only alternative to a more cooperative regional order is chaos. saturday, 4 july marked the 100th day since the exile of president hadi and the launch of the saudi-led coalition airstrikes against the continuing advance of houthi and pro-saleh forces in yemen. the country is facing a humanitarian catastrophe, with more than 3 000 yemenis killed, over 14 000 injured, and 21 million people, or 80% of the total population, in need of humanitarian assistance, and a major food crisis about to unfold. just to give you a comparison: there are now more people in need in yemen than in the entire sahel region. the eu’s position is clear, as portrayed in the foreign affairs council conclusions of april 2015. we have also repeatedly – most recently in a joint statement by the high representative/vice-president and commissioner stylianides last friday – made the case that there is no other way out of the current crisis than through an inclusive political process under un stewardship favouring a genuine and constructive dialogue among the different parties. the continuing advance of the houthis and forces loyal to ex-president saleh, in contravention of un security council resolutions, is clearly unacceptable. but only a broad political consensus based on the parameters set by un security council resolution 2216 can provide a sustainable solution to the crisis, tackle the threat of terrorist groups and prevent further regional instability. any long-term solution should address the underlying causes of instability, which are deeply rooted in local historical and socio-economic power structures. the eu fully supports the efforts of the un special envoy, ismail ould cheikh ahmed, to recreate trust amongst the parties for a meaningful political deal. the consultations held in geneva from 15 to 20 june could be a first step towards a return to an inclusive political process. we see a strong case for the gradual approach followed by the special envoy, first setting the conditions for a long pause in hostilities, leading to a sustainable ceasefire, coupled with a monitored withdrawal from key cities by the warring forces. the eu has been reaching out to all the parties in yemen, including the houthis. we believe it is critical for all the actors in the conflict to set a realistic path to peace in line with the parameters set by un security council resolution 2216. our message to all parties is clear: engage in the un-led dialogue process, with no preconditions, in good faith. all their legitimate concerns will be duly taken into consideration in a broad political settlement. the humanitarian impact of the ongoing fighting, bombardments and disruption of essential services on the civilian population, in particular on children, is reaching alarming proportions and exacerbating an already dire humanitarian situation. the targeting of civilian populations and infrastructures, including un warehouses or hospitals, is also clearly unacceptable. in this volatile environment it is all the more crucial that humanitarian assistance reaches the people of yemen. the european union has been steadfast in its support of the un efforts towards a lasting, predictable and sustainable humanitarian ceasefire. such a pause should allow the urgent delivery of humanitarian assistance and essential supplies, including fuel, food and basic commodities, according to the principles of impartiality, neutrality and independence. it is essential, to this end, that access to yemen for commercial shipping be further eased and that measures taken to implement un security council resolution 2216 be proportional and predictable. a un-led inspection mechanism should be urgently rolled out to enable faster and more streamlined clearance procedures for ships bound for yemen. in parallel we are calling on all parties to ensure respect for international humanitarian law and international human rights law, in particular by protecting civilians. everyone should refrain from direct targeting of civilian infrastructure, notably medical facilities and water systems, and from using civilian buildings for military purposes. it is also of the utmost importance that all parties ensure the safety and security of medical personnel and relief workers and facilitate the passage of aid convoys and ambulances to the most affected populations without discrimination. the eu humanitarian aid office – echo – has already mobilised eur 25 million in humanitarian assistance for yemen to respond to the most urgent needs. we are also engaged in diplomatic efforts to ensure unrestricted access to humanitarian workers and aid relief so that vital assistance can be immediately delivered. more needs to be done, but international assistance will remain a drop in the ocean if commercial shipping cannot resume and bring the 80% of goods that yemen imported before the conflicts and if yemini warring factions continue to hamper the delivery of aid. ultimately, the solution to this crisis has to be a political one, and every day that passes further entrenches polarisations and sees the risk of a protracted conflict with sectarian undertones grow. the eu will remain committed to playing its full role in supporting the un and in reaching out to the parties and to regional players to set a swift path for peace. thank you for your attention and i look forward to hearing your views on that.
we are now beginning a somewhat intimate but very important debate, and i take this opportunity to greet the visitors to the european parliament.
we do not know that the honourable member has asked to speak. if you want, i'll give you the floor. but i can give it to you, too.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, as i said earlier, we all share the same goal: a durable cessation of hostilities and the resumption of un-facilitated inclusive negotiations between the parties. in times of regional turmoil and ongoing sectarianism, this conflict can only increase instability and chaos. a negotiated ceasefire in yemen, on the other hand, could help to build confidence that can contribute to the resolution of other issues in the middle east. only a broad yemeni-led political consensus, responding to the legitimate grievances of all segments of yemeni society, will provide a sustainable solution to the crisis. i remain convinced that confidence-building steps should be urgently agreed, including an immediate humanitarian pause with commensurate disengagement of armed forces in all areas including aden, taiz and marib. this would allow international aid organisations to deliver urgently-needed food, medicine and fuel to citizens throughout yemen. the lack of progress towards the resumption of an inclusive political track and the absence of steps towards de-escalating the conflict carry the risk of a greater regional conflagration, with serious consequences for the gulf region, the horn of africa and, ultimately, europe. therefore, the time has come for all sides to restart the process of negotiations without preconditions, in order to restore legitimate state authority over the country for the benefit of its people. it is the joint responsibility of all yemeni parties and regional players, with the help of the international community, to work towards this goal. once again, the european union remains committed to playing its full part in this process.
i would like to say that i have received seven motions for resolutions at the end of this debate. the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the serious political crisis in yemen has been going on for many months and has quickly turned into a social and economic crisis, and the european union cannot simply be an observer: we must act politically, but also in the concrete field of humanitarian aid. let us remember that yemen is much closer to us than we are led to believe: the yemeni refugees - but also all the people who have migrated to yemen from the horn of africa in recent years - will now turn to europe for protection and asylum, exacerbating a phenomenon that we are already unable to manage satisfactorily. not only that: yemen is a training ground for foreign fighters, as evidenced by the investigation into one of the two perpetrators of the charlie hebdo massacre in paris. two reasons why, if the moral imperative to help a desperate population is not enough, we should act as soon as possible. finally, on a practical level, the european union must demand a public commitment from all the parties involved to guarantee humanitarian aid corridors in all regions of the country. in fact, even today, entire regions are impossible to reach.
the agenda includes a joint discussion of the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the annual report on human rights in the world 2014 (2015/2761 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank my colleague, mr vincent peillon, for his work, which has been very inclusive. i was pleased to see the attention paid to many of the requests we made. i consider this report to be a fairly substantial step in the right direction. it is rightly said, as mr smith has just pointed out, that some of the real and most fundamental causes of instability are poverty, exclusion and discrimination. the aim is therefore to develop a political, economic, social and cultural approach which does not focus exclusively on security. i am clearly aware that the theatre is plagued by a great deal of instability and that providing a detailed analysis of each individual context is impossible in this chamber. however, i wanted to stress the importance of having put the latent conflict between saudi arabia and iran in black and white and the need for confidence building which must be strengthened over time and, above all, the strong call for turkey to assume a less ambiguous role than we have seen in recent years. i also express my concern, of course, about the israeli settlement policy in the palestinian west bank and i hope that this report will also encourage the parties to seriously restart a credible peace process, since this is one of the most difficult and dangerous hotbeds to deal with, historically and even at present. i would like to stress two fundamental concepts which we must always bear in mind if we want a lasting solution. first of all, political islam must necessarily be a partner and it must be the partner which enables us to isolate extremism decisively. the second is that we must, in my view, concentrate a great deal on working with the model countries - i am thinking of tunisia, but also lebanon, and jordan - by focusing our attention on them and pressing for healthy cooperation with international cooperation organizations, such as the gulf, we can achieve important results.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 9 july 2015. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments and resumed at 9.35 p.m.)
the court is in session. i would like to thank commissioner hahn again for the great work he has done today. it has been in the chamber for over five hours, so thank you very much. the agenda includes the report by mr eduard kukan, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the review of the european neighbourhood policy ((2015/2002(ini)) (a8-0194/2015).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 9 july 2015. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. it is time for the european neighbourhood policy (enp) to be brought into line with the current geopolitical landscapes. the ongoing commission review provides an appropriate basis for reviewing the principles, scope and instruments of the enp, while recognising the new challenges posed by recent developments in the political situation in the eastern partnership and southern mediterranean countries. we must draw on the lessons of the past decade to strengthen the policies of partnership and cooperation with neighbouring countries and thus promote stability, economic development and security at europe's borders. i believe, however, that the review of the enp must be accompanied by a broader discussion of the eu's overall foreign policy. economic pressures, the risks of geopolitical tensions in large areas close to home, migratory flows and the threats posed by international terrorism all require a strong response and a shared strategy at european level. i therefore hope that a thorough discussion can be launched to ensure that in future the eu's relations with its neighbours will be more fruitful and a vehicle for development and stability at global level.
the committee on budgets madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am here today in place of mrs herranz garcía, who cannot be in the chamber and whom i thank for her work on this dossier. the report concerns the european commission's proposal for the recasting of three regulations: no 3954 of 1987 setting maximum permitted levels of contamination of food and feed following a nuclear accident or any other case of radioactive emergency; regulation no 944 of 1989 laying down maximum permitted levels of contamination of secondary foodstuffs following a nuclear accident or other emergency and regulation no 770 of 1990, which also lays down maximum permitted levels in contaminated feedingstuffs following nuclear accidents or in the event of a radiation emergency. we believe it is important that the european union has up-to-date legal instruments, with quick decision-making procedures adapted to all circumstances, to deal with situations such as those experienced after the chernobyl or fukushima accidents. the legal basis of the 2010 proposal required only the consultation of the european parliament: the new proposal under consideration today introduces some new elements which establish a clearer link with european food safety legislation. in its explanatory memorandum, the commission acknowledges that, taking into account the evolution of primary community law on food safety and the need to ensure the consistency of all legislative measures concerning the conditions for importing food and feed from third countries affected by a nuclear accident or radiological emergency, the measures that have been developed in the post-chernobyl context will need to be aligned with the regime of implementing powers and procedures laid down in this regulation. this could also involve, if necessary, a change in the legal basis. the rapporteur, therefore mrs herranz, proposes an amendment to the legal basis of the regulation which gives parliament the power of codecision. food safety is the ultimate objective of the european commission's proposal and the regulation must reflect the evolution of community law, especially since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the proposal sets out in its annexes the maximum permissible levels in the event of a radioactive accident or emergency, which were confirmed in 2012 by a group of experts established under the euratom treaty of the commission. in the event of a radioactive accident or emergency, the commission shall adopt an implementing act to make the maximum permitted levels of radioactive residues in food applicable. the commission will therefore have a great deal of flexibility to adapt, if necessary, the values indicated in the annexes if circumstances so require. the new comitology means that for the first time the commission will be assisted by the section of the standing committee on plants, animals, food and feed dealing with radioactive contamination. the author of the draft report considers that the use of implementing acts to deal with critical situations arising from a nuclear accident is the most appropriate way of acting quickly. where the urgency of action is essential to ensure the safety of consumers, the commission shall provide for a specific emergency procedure. as regards the implementing acts adopted in the event of an accident, the draft report provides for the possibility of reviewing them as often as necessary to reflect the evolution of contamination. the commission's proposal should be supplemented by the introduction of certain procedures on the general principles of food law, including the introduction of an early warning system to enable information to be exchanged quickly. in the light of the foregoing, i naturally ask that the report by mrs herranz garcía be supported.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am here today on behalf of my colleague and friend, commissioner arias cañete, who cannot be in strasbourg for reasons of urgency, because he is attending the annual acer conference in ljubljana instead of strasbourg. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs esther herranz garcía, and your colleague, mr giovanni la via, for a positive, comprehensive, informed and balanced report. the aim of today's proposal is to update or adapt the existing regulation on the establishment of maximum levels of radioactivity in food and feed in the event of a nuclear accident or radiological emergency. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of nuclear installations is not compromised. it is therefore important that clear and efficient procedures are established and developed at eu level to set maximum levels of radioactivity in food and feed for the european market in the event of a nuclear accident. the procedures must be consistent with the new rules governing the exercise of implementing powers by the commission. but they must also allow the commission to react quickly when it is informed that maximum levels in food and feed may have been reached or even exceeded. the council already set these maximum levels after the chernobyl accident. but they have now been reviewed by scientific experts on several occasions. in the interest of maximum protection for the eu population, the commission has proposed a revision of the existing legislation to consolidate the existing regulations, to adopt the new committee procedure to ensure that maximum levels are set in accordance with the lisbon treaty and to introduce more flexible procedures to allow targeted responses to all nuclear accidents or radiological emergencies. the herranz garcía report sets out constructive changes aimed at providing greater flexibility if, in the interests of targeted responses to nuclear accidents, lower limits than those set in the present regulation have to be applied. in the light of the experience of the fukushima accident, this aspect has been raised and discussed during the negotiations in the council. the commission also considers that the proposal should clarify the relationship between the proposed euratom regulation and the existing food safety legislation on the basis of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the commission can support some, but not all, aspects of the amendments. firstly, we cannot support the proposed change in the legal basis. the commission proposal is based on the euratom treaty as a lex specialis. the euratom treaty is the legal basis for all acts which the proposed regulation is intended to repeal. the court of justice of the european union recently delivered its judgment on the drinking water directive, confirming our legal view that article 31 of the euratom treaty is the correct and only legal basis. we cannot accept another legal basis, namely the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which replaces the euratom treaty. the request for a report to the european parliament on the review of the maximum levels of radioactivity, in order to take due account of the current scientific progress made in the world, should be answered as follows: this review of basic standards is indeed a common practice. once the international panel of scientific experts the international commission on radiological protection has produced a new list of dose coefficients for ingestion in approximately three to five years , the commission will request the expert group for an opinion on the validity of the currently valid maximum values and, on the basis of this opinion, decide whether to revise the regulation. we'll be glad to get back to you on that. as regards the proposal to include tritium and c14 in the list of radionuclides, the group of experts has already stated that the maximum levels for these nuclides may be ten times higher than for caesium-137, for example. furthermore, it is not usually practical to take account of this type of contamination. however, if an event should actually occur, for example with tritium in a fusion reactor, the commission would set maximum levels ad hoc by means of an implementing regulation following the committee procedure. we will also take care of that. your report says that the maximum levels should be set in such a way as to protect the most vulnerable groups of the population - children, people working in agriculture. i would point out that the commission proposal specifically provides for maximum levels for children. however, we believe that maximum levels of radioactivity should be set for the population in the eu as a whole. it would be unwise to regulate the eu food market on the basis of the situation of a minority of people who, for example, are subsistence farmers. for these groups of persons, the commission may adopt, on the basis of the applicable law, specific recommendations addressed to the member states concerned, as it did after the chernobyl accident, for persons intending to consume large quantities of wild mushrooms and berries or game in certain regions particularly affected by the continuing contamination with radioactive caesium. overall, we thank you for your expert report. he supports our work and we are happy to continue the steps we have taken.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we heard from your speech a firm defence of the commission's position and proposal on the legal basis. the subject has also been the subject of extensive study and debate in the environment committee of this parliament. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether it will take a decision on the matter. but the prevailing position was that, as the european commission had also foreseen in its texts, there should be a possible revision of the legal basis, a new legal basis which takes account of the fact that, with codecision, food-related issues, such as the one we are talking about, are of course subject to the ordinary legislative procedure and therefore subject to codecision with the full involvement of parliament. so, while we are still holding our differences of opinion, which will be negotiated later and after the vote, regardless of the outcome of the vote in the house today, i would like to return to the issue of the level of radioactivity provided for in the annexes. this was also the subject of extensive discussion between the political groups, with differing positions on some issues, but i would particularly like to point out that the final vote in the envi committee was based on a sound precautionary principle, because, as required by the values indicated by the fao, as required by the values of the world health organization, we adhered to values which are one tenth of the maximum tolerated. we have therefore kept to much lower values, precisely because the precautionary principle is a sound principle which we want to continue to apply here in europe.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we too have supported the proposal to amend the legal basis, which gives parliament greater power in the codecision phase. we therefore support this amendment, which is a crucial point for us to support the report, but also the amendment we have requested, which aims to reduce the permissible limits set out in the table in the report and which the rapporteur also supports. this is because, if it is true that it is the experts who have to give us these indications, it is also true that the experts are also based on assumptions and those which have been adopted in the report on radiation protection 105 by the icrp committee are assumptions based on the chernobyl accident, an event which took place far away from the borders of our europe and which must instead be re-modulated to apply them to what is our reality, to the possible accident within our territory, as my colleague mrs rivasi has said. the possible accumulated doses of radiation have not been considered either, nor are the separate particles which may be released in an accident included in the table. this is a very important risk element which has not been considered. that is why we are going to support this measure only if it passes a table with the limits reduced to 10%.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the european union must be able to have up-to-date legal instruments, which contain agile decision-making procedures and are suitable for dealing with emergency situations, such as those experienced after the chernobyl or fukushima accidents. i think that the use of implementing acts to respond to nuclear accidents and other types of radioactive emergencies is the most appropriate way of acting immediately and swiftly. as regards the maximum permitted levels of radioactivity in food and feed following a nuclear accident or in cases of radioactive emergency, i believe that, although the european union currently has an adequate level of radioactive protection in food, since these levels are well below those permitted at international level, we must go a little further by further reducing the limits. parliament should be given the right to co-decide on the modification of these limits, should it be necessary to examine them in the light of new scientific knowledge. the risks of nuclear accidents and the consequent potential for contamination of foodstuffs must lead us to intensify monitoring of the maximum permitted levels of radioactivity in order to better protect the health of european consumers.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. you have mentioned that the experts who work for us here, who have been appointed by the member states on the basis of the euratom treaty, are independent and take their own responsibility, and that they should be published. but this is not provided for in the treaty, the primary law. therefore, we have no way of publishing these names without or against their will. excuse me, i'm a law abiding citizen. secondly, i myself have been a member of parliament for more than 25 years in my home state of baden-württemberg. i am interested in a strong parliament. that is why i am taking the debate today seriously and will report back to my colleague, arias cañete. we shall also incorporate these proposals and critical approaches. however, our primary law establishes a clear system of competence. the decision on energy technology is a matter for the member states. the decision on nuclear energy was and is a matter for our member states. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not disrupted by the nuclear power stations, and that the community's energy policy is not disrupted by the nuclear power stations. 14 member states have no nuclear power, 14 have nuclear power. we have to respect this, the commission and parliament, because under our treaty law the decision is up to the member states. the same applies to today's debate, to our commission proposal, under the euratom treaty, which is clearly the lex specialis for this. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. but i'm afraid we can't have a vote. i think that, despite all the interest in the matter and all the understanding and emotions, we should not bend paragraphs, articles and treaties, but should try to change the treaties, but should accept on the basis of these treaties that parliament is called to participate and not to take part in the decision-making process. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. i think that's part of the culture of debate in sports. what i do not accept, even if it is presented in a charming bavarian dialect, is that we are talking about incitement to murder. i reject this in every way. i'm not prepared to accept that i'm an instigator of murder. i consider these accusations to be untenable and impossible.
the committee on budgets madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for the opportunity to have this debate, because it has allowed us to discuss publicly in this chamber a subject which is extremely sensitive to european citizens. we have discussed and debated a subject which concerns future food security in the event of a nuclear accident. it is clear that the prevailing position within the committee has been that of a change in the legal basis, a change which implies, commissioner, a revision of the path, because we are talking here about food safety, we are not talking about issues related to atomic energy. the view of this parliament is therefore linked to the fact that the subject of the proposed regulation is one in which the characteristic element is the characteristic of feedingstuffs or feedingstuffs for animal husbandry. so clearly, from our point of view, the issue is different. i thank all the members for the discussion which took place and during which different positions were expressed, but i would like to emphasize one thing to those who raised concerns about the levels of radioactivity: it is clear that the wording is a hypothetical proposal. it is obvious that what we have to define precisely is the path to follow, if necessary, to modify them, in agreement with the commission, because it is obvious that there could be nuclear accidents right next door, much further away, and obviously the levels of radioactive contaminants should be different depending on the conditions of the accident. so we must define a course and that course must be implemented with the participation of this parliament.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for this report and all the shadow rapporteurs from the committee on culture. i am sorry that the latter has not been able to present its opinion and that the views of this important committee are therefore missing from the text and will be missing. i also proposed to re-submit the compromise agreements which had been reached at the last meeting of the shadow rapporteurs and i must say that i was also reprimanded for this initiative. i hope that in future this will not happen again and that the committee on culture will be able to make its voice heard, preferably as an associated committee and not just with an opinion.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, apart from the various questions of substance which make us appreciate the reda report as a whole, and apart from certain criticisms which undermine its effectiveness and our full support for it, it is not superfluous in my view to recall that the report under consideration is the first concrete legislative act of an elected parliament on copyright in the last 20 to 25 years. it is well known that the intellectual property reforms of the last 20 years were not only inspired but also implemented by the world trade organisation through the 1994 trips agreements. all the various directives, regulations and laws that have followed have been mere applications, interpretations or developments of what was conceived in a not very different, perhaps even more obscure, setting from that of ttip. it follows that, for this reason alone, the reda report, if it is successful, will remain an initiative which will go down in the history of copyright and democracy. for this reason, i ask you not to compromise this good proposal with extra-copyright provisions such as the responsibility of intermediaries to protect ....... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that in this sector too, all the efforts that europe has to offer are necessary to give operators a framework of rules which will enable them to work with certainty and a fair profit. we are aware that we live in a world that no longer even needs to talk about the digital revolution, because art and culture, which are disseminated through the network, are also a reality that accompanies our daily lives. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of authors are protected, and that the rights of the publisher are protected. so let's not mess this up. today's initiative is a parliament initiative, improved by the work of the legal affairs committee compared with the beginning, but it is only an indication for the commission. we hope that at least this time it will stop trying to impose a series of unnecessary legal constraints on european citizens and companies in the sector, as it usually does, and concentrate on a few clear instruments for the protection of labour and rights.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs reda, all the other rapporteurs and colleagues from the other groups and committees for agreeing on a joint text in such a complex area. this report certainly represents a step forward, albeit not a definitive one, because it finally provides a clear and, above all, very balanced indication for the european commission, which is useful for an innovative framework for the development of the digital agenda, capable of protecting copyright and the right of access to knowledge, while promoting the role of the cultural and creative industries and without neglecting the responsibility of all operators. i hope that paragraph 46 will be deleted from the text so that the principle of freedom of panorama is reaffirmed, and i make a final appeal to the commission and the council to implement the marrakesh treaty to guarantee the right to information and culture for the blind.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament should be seen as a progressive institution which is close to the interests of the citizens and which fights to defend them. but today it is showing its weariness by preparing to dismiss with difficulty a text that i feel is reactionary to say the least, containing principles that are contrary to the digital single market and imbued with a neoliberal ideology: the gdp figures are chanted, the employment figures are quoted very roughly and the growth mantra is constantly being chanted. you have even felt the need to emphatically reaffirm that the right to private property is the foundation of modern society. but shouldn't we have given directions for the modernisation of copyright and make it fit for new technologies and the emerging digital single market? what did we do instead? we chose the adjectives carefully, so that everything would change without changing anything, afraid that even a breath of wind could bring a breeze of freshness. the call for the introduction of the liability of digital intermediaries and service providers, as well as robust enforcement, which is likely to be anachronistic, given its frequent ineffectiveness, and dangerous for fundamental rights, is unacceptable. copyright is then used as a tool to justify the maintenance of profit positions on the market, which no longer make sense in view of the opportunities offered by new technologies. as a member of the culture committee, i was horrified to read that culture is considered a commodity to be sold and that those who want to benefit from it - and i quote - "must pay to do so". but should we not build a europe for citizens and by citizens? the free circulation of culture and knowledge should not be the star of a reform that wants to call itself such and keep pace with the times? why should we be afraid of the introduction of exceptions and limitations to copyright, in order to protect fundamental rights and the public interest? i am not satisfied with this text and i continue to believe that we have a duty to all european citizens to do more. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i never said that you don't have to pay authors or creators. we'd miss that! i come from a humanistic background myself. i'm all for authors and creators. but i also believe that there should be exceptions and limitations for culture, because citizens need access to culture, all of them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i recognize that this policy report on the revision of the copyright directive is a good basis for the commission's legislative proposal and i also appreciate the words of commissioner oettinger. many of the requests from the committee on culture are being collected, and this is the result of a great campaign of high-level mediation, mr adinolfi. i am a little surprised that you, the rapporteur for the opinion in the cult committee, are critical of the fact that there was no consensus on your report. however, this demonstrates what we have been saying for some time, that the portability of cultural content is compatible with territoriality, and it acknowledges the cultural specificity between the expansion of access to culture and the recognition of the moral and economic rights of authors, as well as the economic sustainability for cultural and creative industries, especially the audiovisual ones. i shall add only two comments. firstly, i shall vote against article 3 (46) but i have to say honestly that it was not freedom of panorama, that is to say freedom to take photographs freely, that was in question, but rather the use and commercial exploitation of the images. the proposal on liability to clarify the over-the-top.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mrs reda for the extraordinary patience she has shown in this work, which has given us a wide area in which to share a very delicate task, namely the task of rewriting and giving a legislative definition to copyright in the network system. the material production of goods and services is being overtaken and, in many ways, changed by the use of technologies and new languages, and so what we are doing to this end is important: redefining rights for both producers and users. i also think that the elements relating to the promotion of the digitisation of all that can be considered as european cultural heritage are very important for this, and it is equally important to strengthen the exception for education and libraries. then, as far as freedom of panorama is concerned, there should be no need to comment on it: freedom is not to be questioned. it is another matter, of course, to combat vague or, worse, distorted behaviour. for that reason, i too believe that it is very important to delete paragraph 46.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i, as the shadow rapporteur on the own-initiative report, have already had the opportunity to discuss with my colleagues the potential benefits of this fund. there is a small problem, however, which we should try to draw attention to, because at the moment these funds are decided within a bureau whose composition does not reflect the forces present in this parliament. we therefore asked in an amendment that the board which decides on the specific fund in question should be sympathetic to all groups. the gue/ngl, efdd and the new enf groups are currently missing. i believe that if we want to demonstrate how democracy is done, we should first of all respect the democratic composition of parliament, otherwise we are making a fool of ourselves. i therefore expect that this amendment will be supported, because our support for it depends on it, but also on the credibility of this fund, which will otherwise be severely criticised by us.
mr president, i voted for this material, i supported, let us say, the mandates given by the european parliament to the commission. i am convinced that any free trade agreement always contributes to the economic prosperity of the partners who conclude it. the debate that was held here, and which was very informative, and i listened to it very carefully, was unfortunately burdened with many ideological clichés and was not always about the concrete, substantive aspects of the negotiations. i am glad that the material finally got through, that the european parliament supported the ttip resolution. i will wait for the commission to negotiate the final version of this treaty and i am prepared to support it. of course, the detail is important to me, i'll wait for the specific details. there are also concerns in my region, for example in the plzeň region, about the us gold miners in šumava, so all these details need to be discussed further.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against the lange resolution with conviction for a fundamental reason called democracy. yesterday we heard a lesson in democracy from alexis tsipras, from manolis glezos on the importance of respecting popular sovereignty at european and national level. the ttip is the negation of all that. it is a trojan horse of the multinationals, through mechanisms such as regulatory cooperation or the new isds formula, invented by the schulz-malmström compromise. above all, the resolution adopted yesterday ignores the concerns raised by activists and researchers on the precautionary principle, on the rights and jobs issue, on the health and agri-food production issue. there are many reasons for saying "oxi" to ttip. it is no coincidence that i am the first to sign an amendment, which has unfortunately been rejected, calling for the suspension of the negotiations. i think that the european parliament made a serious mistake yesterday.
mr president, first of all, a little clarity. we did not approve ttip yesterday. parliament yesterday delivered to the european commission its recommendations for the continuation of negotiations with the united states. if the commission does not respect the priorities we have clearly stated, we are prepared to vote against the agreement. i believe that the report we have voted on responds in a timely manner to the concerns of the european citizens, which i consider to be absolutely legitimate in view of the lack of transparency with which the negotiations have started. we have made it clear that the agreement must lead to greater protection of geographical indications, improve access for our agri-food products to the american market, not undermine european social and environmental standards and ensure a high level of consumer protection. as regards isds, the compromise reached remains too ambiguous, failing to provide for a firm rejection of the inclusion of isds mechanisms in ttip, which could give foreign investors greater procedural rights than domestic investors and jeopardise the sovereign rights of the european union, its member states and regional and local authorities, by referring to international arbitration tribunals which are often not transparent.
in writing. ‒ my vote on the european parliament's recommendations to the commission on the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) was a negative one. amendments have been adopted which seriously endanger the health of citizens, reducing protection in various respects, which crush smes in favour of large multinationals, which, moreover, by availing themselves of the benefits reserved to them by the isds clause, will be able to impose themselves on states with the threat of long and costly legal odysseys. the amendments adopted are the result of pressure from the lobbies, who, like puppeteers, have pulled the strings on both sides of this useless treaty which protects the powerful at the expense of the european people. voting in favour of these recommendations is, in my view, a crime against the fundamental principles on which the european union is founded.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the lange report which analyses the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip). this europe, after the disaster of the single currency, wants to impose on us an agreement which will be against the economies of our territories, against our agriculture, against a venetian and italian market model based on the quality of our excellences, which is in danger of being swept away by american multinationals ready to usurp our "know-how". with my 'no' i say no to ttip, to europe and its treaties, to a monstrous and failed system in which the powerful are in charge, manipulating the commission, the ecb and the imf like puppets, leaving the citizens to face the consequences of these horrors on their own.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is important for the european union to try to conclude a good trade agreement with the united states, which is our main economic partner, which can bring immense benefits to all parties involved. i am also convinced that the compromise presented by president schulz on the isds issue is a solution that will allow the problems related to this subject to be resolved.
in writing. ‒ any criticism of ultra-liberal single-mindedness cannot be accused of being populist. the debate on the ttip negotiations has developed in society and has raised many concerns, not only among ngos, trade unions, farmers, producers and various trade associations, but also among ordinary citizens. and we have a duty to listen and to give voice to these demands. as an s&d group we have achieved important results in economic, social and environmental terms, but not the most important: a clear no to the isds. that is why i voted no.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the inta committee's own-initiative report, which contains suggestions to the european commission for the conduct of the ongoing negotiations with the usa. the opposition of the northern league to ttip is well known. we are particularly dissatisfied with a number of issues, such as the risks to the agricultural and agri-food sector and the tough competition with far more dynamic and less taxed us companies. the text of the report also contains some interesting points. it is not a document devoid of content, but it certainly reflects a positive approach to ttip. clearly we cannot approve a report which says little about the need for greater recognition and respect for our geographical indications in the usa (where there is a system based on trademarks that usurp our know-how). the report uses many paragraphs on a subject that is tearing up the claims, the isds mechanism. this is undoubtedly an important aspect, but the search for a compromise at all costs on isds by the main political groups has caused attention to be diverted from other issues of concern to the lega nord, which is a priority.
in writing. ‒ ttip, as designed so far, will have the effect of putting the health of citizens, safety standards and the social and employment systems of all europeans at serious risk. the fact that the isds dispute settlement system is maintained will also remove any obstacle to the overpowering power of multinational companies, which will be able to assert their interests also in decisions taken by states. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) are characterised by a number of factors which, taken together, make the subject highly controversial. the high technical complexity, the difficulty of predicting the real effects of an agreement, the limited transparency in the forms and content of the negotiations, the strong ideological implications of the subject, these and other factors explain the contradictions and lead to following the negotiations with great attention and at the same time great caution. as parliament will be called upon to approve or reject the final text of the agreement 'as a whole' in the coming years, it is appropriate at this stage, rather than formulating overall assessments of ttip and/or the negotiations that have taken place, to seek to influence the course of future negotiations to the greatest possible extent, with a view to the full protection of the fundamental rights and principles of the union. the effective realisation of a fair and inclusive social model centred on people and work rather than capital and profit is a priority for the union at this historic juncture, and ttip will only be acceptable if and to the extent that it is functional to that objective. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report containing the european parliament's recommendations to the commission on the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip). the report highlights: (1) the strategic importance of such an agreement in eu-us relations; (2) the protection and safeguarding of investments; (3) the establishment of a democratic and transparent isds mechanism for the settlement of investment disputes between investors and states; (4) the inclusion in ttip of specific chapters on energy, smes and intellectual property; and (5) the recognition and strong legal protection of geographical indications. the report also calls on the negotiators to ensure that future negotiations are transparent in order to reach an ambitious and transparent agreement.
in writing. ‒ by approving this text, we are sending guidelines to the commission to continue the negotiations. i am convinced that in an increasingly globalised world, only through specific rules can smes, their activities and their commercial expansion be protected. the eu needs such an agreement because it will be a powerful engine for its reindustrialisation: we are waiting for a proposal that will protect the interests of businessmen, consumers, families and the environment. the interconnection between markets is increasingly marked, up to 40% of industrial products are obtained from imported basic products, and this agreement can become a useful instrument in creating shared standards and ensuring an anti-dumping policy so that free competition is implemented on equal terms. this does not mean that the high principles and values which i personally believe in, such as food safety, health, the social model, the environment and data protection, are not subject to compromise unless a higher level of protection is achieved. finally, a geopolitical consideration: the eu without this agreement could find itself displaced from the main axis of world trade and development, namely the trans-pacific. in any case, before we approve the treaty, we will carefully assess every aspect of it.
in writing. ‒ ttip can be a trade agreement with great potential and benefits for the european market and european businesses. the benefits in terms of economic and trade, growth and employment through the facilitation of entry into the american market by our economic realities. making our european businesses and products more competitive - especially those of excellence - must be one of the highest priorities on our political agenda. i therefore intend to vote in favour of this report. i hope that through this agreement we can offer good opportunities for our smes, improve the agricultural market and, above all, identify appropriate rules for the indication of the origin of products for the proper protection of our consumers. what some european governments still refuse to recognize and approve within the european union. i am also a member of the italian parliament and i do not hide my hope that we can protect made in italy better and put a stop to the enormous damage caused by italian sounding every year in our country. damage caused by the lack of shared standards.
in writing. ‒ ttip is an economic agreement on free trade and investment, which, by removing trade barriers, should facilitate the buying and selling of goods and services between the eu and the us, create jobs and further interconnect the two largest economies. designed as a response to the economic and financial crisis we are experiencing, ttip is increasingly proving to be a tailor-made agreement by and for the us, requiring a downward harmonisation of the high standards that the eu and its member states currently have in sensitive areas such as agriculture, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, food, textiles and animal welfare. one of the main points of contention is the inclusion of isds in the negotiations. such a system would allow us multinationals investing in europe to bypass any national or european court and sue member state governments directly before these new private international courts whenever they feel that national laws pose a threat. i voted against the final text, which is an agreement the socialists have made with the epp, alde and ecr and against the will of those of us who have opposed it from the beginning.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i was and am convinced that the treaty is an opportunity to be seized, for the good of our companies, our production system and our workers. but at the same time, i wanted to express my disagreement with the compromise on isds. the treaty must become an opportunity and not be wasted or sold. i am convinced that there are no valid reasons, especially for the s&d group, which has always opposed systems and arbitration not exactly public, to forget that we are the europe of law and respect for the rule of law, so that no one can question the absolute impartiality of our courts, which are fully capable of settling any issues that may arise, without harming the rights of companies that intend to invest. i would remind you that the prerequisites for admission to the union include the impartiality of the courts and equality before the law. by voting for the isds mechanism, europe is acknowledging that its own member states do not meet this requirement. i hope that this misrepresentation can be corrected by referring the judgments back to the appropriate public bodies.
in writing. i voted against this resolution because ttip is a threat to the standards, safety and health of european citizens. i am concerned and outraged by this negotiation which is a threat to democracy and the rule of law. the resolution adopted by the plenary session removed the isds, one of the main sticking points in the debate, but replaced it with another system which, in fact, favours multinationals by giving them the privilege of directly suing member state governments whenever they consider that national laws pose a threat to them. we consider the new dispute settlement system adopted to be totally inadequate to prevent it from having direct and indirect effects on the ability of states to legislate in the interests of citizens. neither the italian nor the american system requires an additional mechanism for the settlement of commercial disputes. the european and us judicial systems are robust and strong and already offer the highest quality of protection for investors and citizens. since neither this recommendation nor the isds surrogate is acceptable to us, my vote was against it.
in writing. - i've spoken out against this deal many times. it will now pass through this house with your vote in favour and you will be responsible for another agreement which harms the many, the small, for the benefit of the very few, the big.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives the commission a clear mandate for negotiating a transatlantic trade and investment partnership agreement. the agreement is a key instrument in bringing the pursuit of sustainable growth back to the centre of european action, while making a significant contribution to strengthening transatlantic relations with the united states. we want this agreement to be transparent and reliable, capable of bringing only benefits to european businesses and investors, removing those barriers which still prevent them from exploiting our full potential in the american market. we will continue to ensure that the negotiations are conducted in accordance with the mandate and that the interests of the european citizens are fully protected.
in writing. ‒ today's vote on the tpp was not about whether or not to support the agreement; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. it was a vote to set the framework and conditions for a good agreement that does not lower our european standards on the environment, social standards, animal welfare and cultural diversity. and that is why i voted in favour. the text states, without exception, that our standards are not negotiable unless the aim is to achieve a higher level of safety. the protection of personal data is explicitly stated that data confidentiality should not be compromised and ttip should have a personal data protection clause. the resolution also calls for the ratification and implementation of the basic standards set by the international labour organisation.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of mr lange's report. this report sets out the strategic importance of the economic relationship between the european union and the united states as an opportunity to promote its principles and values, anchored in a framework based on shared norms between the two parties. it defines common strategies and visions on world trade, investment and trade-related issues, such as strong standards, norms and regulations, in order to develop a broader transatlantic vision and a common set of strategic objectives; ttip provides an opportunity to shape and regulate the international trading system in a way that ensures that both blocks thrive in an interconnected world, while safeguarding the prerogatives and distinctiveness of our peers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the negotiations on the transatlantic partnership on trade and investment. the proposed objective is to integrate the two markets through a us-eu free trade agreement in order to lower customs duties and remove non-tariff barriers and obstacles. it should be remembered that microenterprises are particularly affected by non-tariff barriers and sectors. given that small and mediumsized enterprises represent the most significant part of the european economy, opening the us market to smes, without compromising community standards in any way, will be a source of growth for europe's gdp. the benefits of this in a free trade area will therefore also be reflected in local communities, with a subsequent increase in the employment rate.
in writing. ‒ through this document, the european parliament had the opportunity to express its position on the negotiations currently under way between the european commission and its us counterpart on the definition of a transatlantic trade and investment partnership, better known as ttip. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. my support for the document also comes from the awareness that the conclusion of the partnership agreement would create the conditions for an increase in the employment rate in all the member states of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls on the european union to continue negotiations with the united states to reach a trade and investment agreement that looks ahead to the near and not-so-distant future. as is well known, the negotiations under way are also the subject of well-founded criticism: the commission has also taken account of the criticisms made by parliament, which has taken them into account in its report, and has put forward clear guidelines for the commission, starting with the protection to be guaranteed to european consumers: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. parliament is quite clear that european standards should not be 'lowered', as they are necessary to ensure sustainable and inclusive growth. it is not by chance that the report makes it clear that no american multinational will enjoy greater protection or more favourable rules in the eu than its european counterparts. in the context of the many and decisive challenges which europe is facing, a strategy of greater partnership with our overseas allies is needed. the ttip, when it is defined and approved, will mark a very important step in the relaunch of the eu at all levels, starting with the political one, in the international framework.
in writing. ‒ we express our support for this draft resolution on the ongoing negotiations between the european union and the united states on a trade and investment treaty. we are saying this because we firmly believe that the treaty can be a source of benefit for the citizens on both sides of the atlantic. similarly, a successful conclusion of the agreement could position the eu and the us as standard-setters in the field of globalisation. the treaty has potential criticisms, but the rapporteur's resolution, thanks to a major mediation effort between the political parties and civil society bodies and thanks to the opinions of the other competent committees, is an ambitious text that safeguards european principles and standards, creates opportunities for smes, but above all honours the role and new powers acquired by the european parliament, as a full co-legislator with the council, in international trade matters.
in writing. ‒ on the ttip negotiations, i support the report proposed by the committee on international trade, as i believe that the treaty has the potential to bring enormous benefits to the european economy and in particular to small and medium-sized enterprises, without affecting the level of standards currently in force in the eu. i am glad that, despite the difficulties, an agreement was reached in my group and i voted in accordance with the parameters which i think the eu should have in the ttip negotiations.
in writing. ‒ the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) is without doubt one of the most important issues on which the european parliament is called upon to express its views. the us remains the eu's main trading partner and the largest export market. according to available data, 88% of companies exporting to the us are small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and 10 million jobs in europe depend on exports to the us. on the other hand, it is worth remembering that there are still a number of aspects which i believe deserve special attention during the negotiations, such as geographical indications (gi) and the protection of consumer health. after lengthy negotiations, the international trade committee (inta) approved draft recommendations, in which it reiterated its wish to conclude an ambitious agreement with the aim of guaranteeing market access in the areas of trade, services, investment and public procurement. the committee also calls for a balanced approach, including transitional periods, quotas and even exemptions for a number of sensitive products. i think this draft report is a good compromise and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the lange report on the 'negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership', better known as ttip, a dossier which was left pending amidst a thousand controversies during the june plenary session. i believe that ttip represents a challenge and an opportunity for european businesses, creating the world's largest free trade area, but within which environmental, social and safety standards must always be guaranteed for the benefit of european citizens. the report also calls for the eu to take a more active role in the fight against terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to play a more active role in the fight against terrorism. last but not least, the most important aspect for the italian system, namely the recognition of indicators of geographical origin, the fight against counterfeiting and italian sounding and the protection of the agri-food sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i do not share the positive approach to ttip that emerges from the text.
in writing. ‒ the new eu-us trade agreement, better known as ttip (transatlantic trade and investment partnership), currently under negotiation, represents a major opportunity for our companies. a comprehensive and ambitious agreement between the eu and the us could make it easier for businesses, especially smaller ones, to export to the us, import services, goods and inputs and compete in new markets. some estimates also show that ttip could lead to an overall gain of around 0.5% of gdp for the eu and 0.4% for the us between now and 2027. this would add as much as €86 billion to the eu economy and €65 billion to the us economy. it is important, however, that a balanced and transparent agreement is reached which promotes a win-win economic environment without compromising the health and safety of consumers and the competitiveness of our industrial system. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted against it. i shall not dwell on the procedural tricks employed by president schulz to prevent the compromise from which this text is derived from being undermined. i see the isds clause is alive and well, only it's not called that anymore. i call for the ttip negotiations to be stopped: the treaty will change the standards of goods and services by overriding the will of citizens and the sovereignty of states; in return, we'll have a ridiculous increase in gdp of 0.03% per year. it 's an official figure: the impact study that the european commission uses to justify the need for ttip states that it will increase european gdp by 0.48% by 2027. from now to 2027 , it 's 13 years . the count is soon made! the same study says that 0.6% of the current jobs will be lost, because certain productive sectors will be penalized by the treaty. the calculation of the new jobs created by ttip in that study does not exist. to assume that they will be created is contrary to all common sense: nafta has destroyed a million jobs in the u.s. and canada, without creating any in mexico.
in writing. the de lange report was intended to make strong recommendations to the european commission on the content of the ttip agreement, but the text we voted for today is the result of an indecent compromise between the socialists and the people's party, which in effect gives the commission free rein in the conduct of the negotiations. all the amendments supported by civil society which committed the commission not to compromise the high european standards, including our own amendments calling for, among other things, the exclusion of public services, the adoption of a positive list for services, so as to exclude all those not expressly mentioned, and the maintenance of high standards of product control, were blocked. i also find it unacceptable that a crucial amendment which we proposed, which excluded all forms of arbitration, both public and private, was arbitrarily prevented from being put to the vote and that instead the isds mechanism was approved, thus allowing multinationals to sue states if the adoption of new laws causes a fall in their profits. for these reasons i voted against this report and i shall continue to oppose this dangerous agreement which, in defending the interests of the lobbies, tramples on the general interest and the rights of millions of citizens.
in writing. ‒ this economic agreement on free trade and investment aims, through the removal of trade barriers in a wide range of economic sectors, to facilitate the buying and selling of goods and services between the eu and the us, create jobs and further interconnect the two largest economies. it was designed as a response to the economic and financial crisis we are experiencing, but it is increasingly proving to be a tailor-made agreement by and for the us, requiring a downward harmonisation of the high standards that the eu and its member states currently have in sensitive areas such as agriculture, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, food, textiles and animal welfare. one of the main criticisms is the integration of the investor-state dispute settlement system into the negotiating process. such a system would allow us multinationals investing in europe to bypass any national or european court and sue the governments of the member states directly, which could be induced to relax or even abandon the enactment of laws to protect labour, health, the environment, etc. further liberalization would harm italy more than any other european country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is essential that the european parliament expresses its views on the conditions for a good agreement. the socialist group has achieved important victories with today's resolution, including the fact that it has reiterated the need for a possible agreement to be without any lowering of eu standards and without any reduction in the legislative power of democratic bodies. i also think it is essential to have called for the isds system to be replaced by a new system of investor-state dispute settlement, subject to democratic principles and control, where disputes are resolved in a transparent manner by public officials, professional and independent judges, in public hearings. the new system will also include an appeal mechanism, ensuring consistency of judicial decisions, where the jurisdiction of eu and member state courts is respected and where private interests cannot undermine public policy objectives.
in writing. i voted against the recommendations on the ttip negotiations because the position they take does not sufficiently reflect the need to protect the interests of european citizens. we are well aware that ttip is likely to contain agreements which will undermine europe's position in many key areas, particularly in sensitive areas such as agriculture, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, food safety, animal welfare and environmental protection. there was a need for parliament to send a strong signal to the commission, which is currently negotiating with its us counterpart, that european rules should not be revised downwards in order to reach a compromise. that's not what happened. i particularly regret that the isds clause, which would introduce a system whereby large multinational companies could directly sue member state governments before international arbitrators whenever they felt that national laws threatened their investments, was not completely censored. the compromise adopted, although calling for the replacement of this mechanism by a different but similar system, does not appear to sufficiently protect national democratic interests.
in writing. ‒ the vajgl report contains unclear and untenable passages. that is why i did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i consider it important that croatia should acquire the status of a member state as soon as possible, also in relation to third countries with which bilateral agreements have been concluded.
in writing. - i vote against it. the european parliament calls for the adjustment of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, following the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation in the light of the political analysis already emerged on the accession of croatia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure under consideration concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union, as the 28th member state, on 1 july 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and its member states and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, as the accession of the republic of croatia to the union necessitated its revision. this agreement is important in view of its aims: it shall aim at consolidating the political, economic and institutional stabilisation of individual countries and the region as a whole through institutional development and public administration reform. enhance trade and economic cooperation; strengthening national and regional security; enhanced cooperation in a number of areas, including justice and home affairs. the basic objective is to 'prepare the ground' for these countries' accession to the european union, a prospect which for the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is now a clear prospect, although it is not likely to be realised in the short term.
in writing. ‒ as is well known, the stabilisation and association agreement reflects the union's willingness and commitment to integrate potential candidate countries into europe's political and economic environment. in this context, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia was the first country in the region to successfully conclude the negotiations and sign this agreement with the eu. it is an important prospect that the balkan countries may one day be included in europe. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ given the technical and executive nature of the recommendation in question, i voted in favour of adopting the resolution, also in view of the political analysis already made on the accession of croatia.
in writing. ‒ the eu's neighbourhood and enlargement policy is one of the failures of this europe. it is counterproductive to continue in this direction.
in writing. i have welcomed mr vejgl's proposal. in this report, parliament gave a favourable opinion on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ the draft decision on the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is approved. the conclusion of the said agreement aims at establishing close and lasting relations enabling the former republic to further strengthen and extend the already existing relations with the european union, in order to support initiatives aimed at promoting the rapprochement of the country with the member states of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document, which expresses a favourable opinion on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, as i consider it essential that croatia, the last member state to be accepted into the community family, should be a party to the agreements concluded by the european union before its accession.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this necessary step to adapt the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and its member states and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to croatia's accession to the eu. the recommendation is simply one of the steps needed to update the european union's system of international agreements when a new member state joins. in view of the very low political level of conflict and the large majority in favour of the measure, we strongly support the work of the rapporteur and join him in inviting the president of the european parliament to convey parliament's position to the council and the commission as well as to the governments and parliaments of the member states and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia.
in writing. - i decided to vote in favour and i hope i have made my contribution.
in writing. ‒ on 24 september 2012, the european council authorised the commission to open negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in order to conclude a protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. the protocol to the stabilisation agreement has been signed and the european parliament is today voting to approve it. i believe that this is an important step in the process of integration of our continent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr vajgl on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ the mcallister report contains unclear and unshared passages. that is why i did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe it is important that croatia should acquire the status of a member state as soon as possible, also vis-à-vis third countries with which bilateral agreements have been concluded.
in writing. - i voted against it. following the accession of croatia to the eu, the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, is to be adjusted.
in writing. ‒ in view of the political analysis already emerged during the debate on the accession of croatia, i voted in favour of this recommendation, also considering its technical and executive nature.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure under consideration concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union, as the 28th member state, on 1 july 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia because croatia's accession to the european union made its revision necessary. this agreement provides the framework for serbia's efforts to achieve a stable democracy and market economy in view of its accession to the european union, although this is not likely to happen in the short term.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the authorisation by the council to conclude a protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement with the republic of serbia, in order to take account of the recent accession of croatia to the european union, i have to express my positive vote on the text of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the eu's neighbourhood and enlargement policy is one of the failures of this europe. it is counterproductive to continue in this direction.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr mcallister's report. parliament gave a favourable opinion on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia. the agreement will enable serbia to further consolidate and extend its relations with the union and its member states, with the aim of complementing and strengthening trade relations, with particular regard to the development of trade and investment.
in writing. ‒ i consider it essential that croatia, which has been a member of the european union since 2013, should participate in the agreements concluded by the european union at a stage prior to its accession to the community family. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this document, which reaffirms the validity of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, taking into account the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this necessary step to adapt the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and its member states and the republic of serbia to croatia's accession to the eu. the recommendation is simply one of the steps needed to update the european union's system of international agreements when a new member state accedes. in view of the very low political level of conflict and the large majority in favour of the measure, we strongly support the work of the rapporteur and join him in inviting the president of the european parliament to convey parliament's position to the council and the commission, as well as to the governments and parliaments of the member states and the republic of serbia.
in writing. - i decided to vote in favour and i hope i have made my contribution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr mcallister on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ mr buzek's report is balanced and well developed. i believe that scientific cooperation agreements with third countries are necessary to support the progress of our companies and their inclusion in foreign markets. for all these reasons i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that india is a key partner in both the economic and the scientific and technological fields. i am therefore very much in favour of the renewal of the existing agreement between the union and the republic of india.
in writing. ‒ the federal republic of india is one of the most populous countries in the world, with a vast market that has not yet reached its full potential and which represents an opportunity for an estimated trade volume of over eur 70 billion and is capable of further expansion. relations between the european union and india have been generally positive for years, although there have been and are still political and economic reasons for friction. the european union remains india's main trading partner and can contribute to the cultural, scientific and technological advancement of this great country. collaboration in the fields of medical diagnostics, biological and hydraulic engineering and ict is already bearing fruit. these efforts must be supported and reinforced, by demonstrating the union's goodwill and by reaffirming its presence in a geographical area of strategic importance and potentially the harbinger of important developments.
in writing. - i voted yes. the traditional vote of the lega nord in favour of scientific and technological cooperation agreements with third countries is confirmed.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the renewal of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and india. i consider it of great interest, for the development of european research, to continue cooperation between india and the eu, through the participation of indian research centres in european r & d programmes, the definition of joint projects and the exchange of information and knowledge. in particular, the initiative will allow for the improvement and intensification of research cooperation, as well as the transfer of know-how, and will strengthen access to each other's markets. the principles are those of non-discrimination, protection of intellectual property, and the sharing and exploitation of results.
in writing. ‒ my vote against is due to india's non-adherence to the nuclear non-proliferation treaty (npt). india has between 80 and 100 nuclear warheads and the question of nuclear non-proliferation is of considerable political importance to us in the five star movement.
in writing. ‒ the eu-india cooperation agreements have been in place for over a decade. india invests about two and a half billion euros a year in research and is a very important scientific partner for europe, especially in areas such as information technology, where the country has made progress to the point of being able to establish itself on the international scientific scene. the renewal of the agreement for the next five years will allow india to continue to be an associated partner in the european union's research programmes, with the consequent possibility for european researchers to access indian research programmes with clear mutual scientific benefits. i believe that this type of agreement should be encouraged and initiated, especially in the scientific field where collaboration between researchers and scientific institutes has always been a source of innovation and innovative solutions that cross national borders. to benefit from scientific advances, collaboration and mobility between european and international experts are necessary. the union has long led the way by promoting research mobility not only within the community but also with associated third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the renewal of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india.
in writing. ‒ the first agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between india and the european union was signed in new delhi on 23 november 2001. it has always been renewed at its expiry, because only through the sharing of research, projects, ideas and capital can important results be achieved. i voted in favour of the draft although i still have some doubts about the situation of our compatriots massimiliano latorre and salvatore girone, who are being tormented by international events. in this situation, my solidarity with the two servants of the fatherland and my closeness to their families remain high. we consider the exchange of information and projects to be an incentive for all our students and researchers: we are trying to encourage cooperation and the possibility for our citizens to have access to international structures.
in writing. ‒ i thought it appropriate to abstain from voting on this draft resolution not so much because of the subject under discussion, but because i am bitter about yet another referral by the indian supreme court on the issue of italian sailors unjustly detained in india since 2012 without charge. the long delays and restrictions on the freedom of movement of the riflemen are unacceptable and constitute a serious violation of human rights. i hope that a reasonable solution to the situation can be found soon, once and for all.
in writing. ‒ on 3 march 2015, the council transmitted to parliament the draft decision on the renewal of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india. the current agreement expired on 17 may 2015 and may be renewed for a period of five years by mutual agreement between the eu and india. the new agreement would not introduce any changes to the previous one, but it is expected that the term 'european community' will be replaced by 'european union', which is necessary following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the scope of the agreement covers all research and development activities under the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation, as well as the eu's participation in indian projects. the costs incurred for cooperation between the parties shall not entail any transfer of funds from one party to the other. scientific and technological cooperation relating to india's status as a developing country is exempted from the agreement. i vote against because of india's non-accession to the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. india is estimated to have between 80 and 100 nuclear warheads. the question of nuclear non-proliferation is of considerable importance to the five star movement and therefore, for this reason too, i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between india and the european community expired on 17 may 2015 and this vote decided whether to renew it. the spectrum of activities of this agreement is to be found in the framework of the horizon 2020 framework programme and, although the renewal does not bring any change to the status quo, if not formal, nor does it require a transfer of funds, i did not consider to give my favourable opinion to it; in fact, india has not yet signed the npt, the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, and it is believed to have between 80 and 100 nuclear warheads. for the five star movement this is a fundamental discrimination.
in writing. ‒ i confirm my support for the renewal of this agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with india, a key global partner in this field.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr buzek's proposal. parliament gave its assent to the draft council decision renewing the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india.
in writing. ‒ in line with the proposal of the epp rapporteur, i gave a favourable opinion on the proposal for a decision on the renewal of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india. we need agreements of this kind for the development of competitive technologies which can improve access to technological goods and increase research and then lower prices while ensuring the same quality of the product. we naturally hope that the renewal of the agreement will bring capital to the eu for the growth of technological research in europe.
in writing. ‒ we strongly support this draft legislative resolution, which represents a step forward in creating a relationship of mutual trust and fruitful cooperation between the european union and the federal republic of india. the renewal of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation, while not significantly broadening the areas of cooperation between the eu and india, is to be supported as it stabilises and strengthens the relations established so far and leaves room for deepening the bilateral relationship. we hope that this renewal will help to relaunch the trade negotiations between the eu and india, and we therefore join the rapporteur in inviting the president of the european parliament to convey this parliament's position to the council and the commission, as well as to the governments and parliaments of the member states and the republic of india.
in writing. ‒ on the proposal to renew the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with india, i decided, together with other members of my party, to abstain from voting. this choice was made in order to emphasize that a satisfactory solution to the case involving the two italian soldiers, massimiliano latorre and salvatore girone, has not yet been found. we have abstained in order to reiterate that before continuing on the path of bilateral cooperation, the whole union should send a strong and clear message to the indian government that a solution should be found quickly.
in writing. ‒ the report by mr buzek deals with the draft council decision on the renewal of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india. the agreement, signed in 2002, has enabled indian and european researchers to participate in each other's research programmes, achieving notable milestones such as the implementation of joint research projects under the 'development cooperation' programme, which is part of the eu's research framework programmes. in the fourth and fifth framework programmes alone, the commission has financed 53 projects. india, for its part, allocates €2.5 billion annually, 0.72% of its gdp, to research and technological development, which is managed by the government-funded council for scientific and industrial research, making it the largest publicly funded industrial research and development agency in the world. in the field of research, india is an important partner for the european union, which is why i voted in favour of renewing the cooperation agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i recognise the importance of scientific and technological cooperation agreements with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because i believe that scientific cooperation agreements with third countries are necessary to support the progress of our companies and their inclusion in markets outside the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that it is essential for the union's progress to invest heavily in scientific and technological cooperation, with as many partners as possible. i am also convinced that the inclusion of the faroe islands in the horizon 2020 programme is a good sign for a people and a nation that belongs to the european cultural family.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the association of the faroe islands to horizon 2020. the traditional vote of the lega nord in favour of scientific and technological cooperation agreements with third countries is confirmed.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the eu and the faroe islands. in my view, it is very productive that legal entities established in the faroe islands are also eligible to benefit from the financial instruments established under horizon 2020 under the same conditions as legal entities established in the member states of the union. in fact, researchers from the faroe islands have already participated in projects funded by the union and the importance of the synergy resulting from this is therefore appreciated, first of all for the strengthening of innovation in the framework of the european research area. the small size of the area should be seen as a factor in favour of scientific research on these lands and not as a limitation.
in writing. ‒ i chose to abstain because, despite the fact that it is a research programme, the text raises two issues that i could not support, namely the periodic hunting (grindadráp) of globicephala melas, which is frowned upon by the international whaling commission (iwc), and the commercial exploitation of overfishing practices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands. the measure in question associates the faroe islands with the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faeroes because i think it is important that they can be associated with the framework programme for research and innovation, given that faeroese researchers have already successfully participated in other projects funded by the union in the past and their geographical proximity to the union. the conclusion of that international agreement, which has retroactive effect as of 1 january 2014, will allow legal persons from associated countries to participate under the same conditions as legal persons from member states, in accordance with article 7 of the horizon 2020 regulation. it is important to conclude this agreement, especially now that we want to enhance and increase scientific and technological cooperation with a view to the creation of a european research area, all the more so with a contracting party which shares the union's desire to promote mutual access of their respective research organisations to scientific and technological research and development activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because it is merely an approval of the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the eu and the faroe islands.
in writing. ‒ the eu research and innovation programme provides that the conditions for the participation of associated countries are determined by an international agreement between the union and the associated country. in view of the importance of scientific and technological cooperation between the faeroe islands and the union and the interest in strengthening research and innovation in the context of the creation of the european research area, the agreement will establish the participation of the islands as an associated country. all its legal entities will participate in the indirect actions and activities of the european commission research centre and in research activities under the same conditions as legal entities in the eu states. the established legal entities will participate in research programmes of the faroe islands. from the date of application, the islands will make a contribution to the annual budget of the union for each year of the programme. the financial contribution from the faroe islands will be added to the amount allocated annually in the eu budget for commitment appropriations to meet financial obligations arising from different forms of measures for the implementation, management and operation of horizon 2020. although we are talking about a research programme, i will abstain for the following reasons: periodic whaling of humpback whales, which is frowned upon by the international whaling commission, and the commercial exploitation of overfishing practices.
in writing. ‒ the union's research and innovation programme 'horizon 2020' provides that the terms and conditions of the participation of associated countries are governed by an international agreement. the accession of an associated country to the joint research programme shall ensure that all its legal entities can participate in the research activities of the union programmes under the same conditions as legal entities of the member states of the union. from the date of application of the agreement, the faroe islands will make a financial contribution to the annual budget of the union which will be added to the amount allocated each year in the annual budget of the union for commitment appropriations to meet the financial obligations arising from the different forms of measures necessary for the implementation, management and operation of horizon 2020. although in principle there is nothing against the possibility of including the faroe islands among the countries associated to horizon 2020, two aspects remain to my mind central to the relationship with this country, namely the annual killing of globicephaly and the poorly selective fishing practices. it is to emphasise the distance between these practices and the eu's internal conservation policies that i have decided to abstain from a vote that would otherwise have been in favour.
in writing. ‒ i confirm my support for this agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with the faroe islands.
in writing. i have decided to give my favourable vote to mr buzek's motion for a recommendation. the proposal is to give a favourable opinion on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands, associating them to the horizon 2020 research and innovation framework programme.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's committee on industry, research and energy has approved the scientific and technological cooperation agreement between the european union and the faroe islands, associating the danish islands to the horizon 2020 programme, the eu's research and innovation framework programme which provides considerable funds, and making them one of the 12 countries associated to the research and innovation programme. the european union considers research and innovation to be essential to its competitiveness and to be a means of coping with the recent economic crisis in europe. under this agreement, legal entities from the associated country faroe islands can participate in the above-mentioned research programme under the same conditions as legal entities from eu member states. i therefore think it appropriate to vote in favour of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament hereby expresses its favourable opinion on the scientific and technological cooperation agreement between the european union and the faroe islands associating the faroe islands to the horizon 2020 research and innovation framework programme. i am convinced that such an agreement will help research and development and i have therefore decided to support mr buzek's report.
in writing. ‒ we strongly support this draft legislative resolution, which represents a step forward in creating a relationship of mutual trust and fruitful cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands. the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation, which associates the faroe islands with the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation, should be supported as it stabilises and strengthens the relations established so far and leaves room for deepening the bilateral relationship. in view of the very low political level of conflict and the large majority in favour of the measure, we join the rapporteur in calling on the president of the european parliament to convey the position of this parliament to the council and the commission and to the governments and parliaments of the member states and the faroe islands.
in writing. ‒ i consider cooperation with the faroe islands to be important for achieving the objectives of horizon 2020 and, as a member of the itre committee, i can only express my support for the work carried out.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands under the horizon 2020 programme. horizon 2020 is the new framework programme for research and innovation of the european union, providing a funding framework of approximately eur 77 billion for investments in research and innovation and for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, thereby increasing cooperation between industry and research.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i recognise the importance of scientific and technological cooperation agreements with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the agreement on scientific cooperation with the faroe islands. science, technology, research and innovation must not know borders, but these islands are certainly not a partner of which the eu can be proud. deaf to international disgust, they perpetrate repeated annual massacres of hundreds upon hundreds of globe-headed whales, which, like all cetaceans, are strictly protected by the eu through annex iv of the habitats directive. the faroese claim that the hunting of the globe-headed whales is part of their ancient "cultural traditions". these traditions, however, did not include the use of motor boats, reconnaissance aircraft, gps and telephones: the hunting has turned into the barbaric and unnecessary extermination of a huge number of animals. the meat of the globe-headed bats - once a precious food source - is thrown away. perhaps the maintenance of 'cultural traditions' could be tolerated if very few animals were killed by traditional methods, but the faroese custom of cruelly and needlessly slaughtering hundreds of globe-headed animals will reverberate its horror on anyone in the international community who has dealings with them. no agreement between the eu and the faroe islands can ever have my approval if it does not contain the prerequisite of banning the slaughter of globe-headed whales.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that encouraging the long-term commitment of shareholders in listed companies will bring greater stability to their management and, consequently, to the whole economic and financial system.
in writing. ‒ greater transparency on the ownership and management of shares by the controlling bodies of listed companies is an important element in order to give stability to the markets and to ensure real competition, not by means of poorly transparent manoeuvres, but by means of a real capacity to improve the supply of its products and the efficiency of its production and marketing systems. clear, binding, uniform rules throughout europe are needed to enable investors to have full knowledge and control of company dynamics, management remuneration and the production chain. a non-binding opinion would risk harming the most virtuous companies, thus failing to affirm that principle of equality before the law, the application of which is fundamental to the good health of the market and above all to the civil coexistence of our society. the revision of shareholder rights, although it may cause some unrest in the world of intermediaries, is necessary to improve the functioning of the stock market, to make it more fair and transparent and to ensure fairness in the relationship between company and shareholders. we must therefore all make sure that the european parliament today expresses itself clearly and authoritatively in this direction.
in writing. - i vote for it. the attempt to regulate the activities of listed companies better is worthwhile. the encouragement of the long-term commitment of shareholders could simply be incentivised without giving them a favourable position in relation to other shareholders, without creating any dominant position within the company. the report is very positive on the rest. commitments by the parties concerned to ensure greater transparency in the notes to the accounts (in relation to information to external parties, list of subsidiaries, information to customers, nature of activities and geographical location, etc.) are very important, taking into account the differences between member states. these rules could help to increase public/consumer and investor (including institutional) confidence by removing the veil of opacity that often surrounds the activities of large companies, whether listed or not.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2007/36/ec as regards the encouragement of long-term shareholder engagement and directive 2013/34/eu as regards certain elements of the report on corporate governance. with this report parliament has taken an important step forward in steering businesses and investors towards a more informed decision-making process and ensuring greater transparency in the governance of european companies. in addition, this vote has approved important instruments to combat tax evasion and avoidance, such as the country-by-country reporting obligation, which requires multinational companies to publicly declare the taxes they pay in each country in which they operate. i think that parliament has thus sent an important signal, particularly after luxleaks and the other scandals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague giving a mandate for negotiations with the commission and the council on the revision of directive 2007/36/ec on the requirements relating to the exercise of certain rights of shareholders in listed companies. the aim is to improve and increase long-term investment. the report's transparency is a particularly positive element.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the encouragement of long-term shareholder engagement and certain elements of the corporate governance report. the aim of the proposal is to strengthen the long-term perspective in the management of listed companies by giving minority shareholders, and in particular institutional investors, a more transparent and easy-to-manage role. the idea is that if investors are more involved and if their engagement is more long-term oriented, companies will give greater priority to long-term issues, which in turn will benefit the end-users of institutional investors and asset managers, as well as businesses and society as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis we are experiencing has been triggered by another crisis, the financial crisis, which in turn has been caused by the disconnect between society's long-term objectives and the much more short-sighted objectives of a significant part of the financial world. the problem is that following the logic and dynamism of the stock market, we risk losing sight of the fact that behind each share is a company that produces goods and services, employees, customers, one or more reference territories, a pipeline and each of us is involved in that world. the european parliament has wanted, with this report, for which i voted in favour, to take a first step towards aligning the objectives of medium and large investors with those of the economy as a whole in seeking to create widespread and sustainable prosperity. i congratulate the rapporteur.
in writing. ‒ the cofferati report represents an improvement on the original commission proposal and the council's general position, despite the important points on which it was necessary to compromise in order to reach a compromise acceptable to all groups. the reference to country-by-country reporting on taxes paid is a significant step towards greater transparency of listed companies to avoid cases in the future such as the recent lux leaks. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report and instructed the rapporteur to open negotiations with the commission and the council.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2007/36/ec as regards the encouragement of long-term shareholder engagement and directive 2013/34/eu as regards certain elements of the corporate governance report has made a number of steps towards harmonising the management of listed companies. in particular, the long-term perspective in their management has been strengthened. one of the main problems not yet addressed by the european legislative corpus was the excessive focus of firms exclusively on short-term returns and profits. in this way, attention to the short term was detrimental to longterm planning and therefore investment was insufficient and suboptimal. the solution is to give minority shareholders, and therefore institutional investors, a more influential role in a more transparent environment. in addition, the participation of all the actors involved in the business, such as employees, consumers and local communities, was encouraged. for these reasons, dialogue between shareholders has been encouraged and provisions for the more rapid identification of shareholders have been promoted. i therefore believe it is important to support these initiatives to stimulate the european economic fabric at this delicate time.
in writing. ‒ this text, which is fundamental in many respects, is the result of a compromise that necessarily excluded certain issues, but which also allowed a valid text to be brought to the plenary to move the governance of companies towards more ethically sustainable working methods. for example, unless there are changes during the negotiations with the commission and the council, companies will be obliged to declare in which countries they pay taxes, avoiding future lux leaks scandals, or, again, the control mechanisms for managers whose remuneration will therefore be linked to results will be increased. so, although i regret the absence of some important elements, such as the obligation to disclose the ratio between the remuneration of directors and the average remuneration of employees, i thought i should vote in favour of this text for the many other steps forward it proposes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the parliament's position on the shareholder rights directive because i consider it of fundamental importance to legislate at community level on substantial aspects of the governance of listed companies, on transparency and on the way directors' remuneration is determined, and on transactions with related parties with a view to fostering relations with shareholders. i personally believe that the introduction of country-by-country reporting, which was not included in the original ec proposal, on the initiative of the ep rapporteur mr cofferati and strongly supported by the s&d group, is a genuinely innovative and characteristic element of the legislation under preparation. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to provide a more effective instrument for the fight against fraud. finally, i hope that all the achievements for which the ep has fought, and therefore greater transparency in the commitments of investors and asset managers, the remuneration of directors of listed companies and the link between it and the performance of the companies they manage, will be vigorously defended during the trilogue with the council.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of mr cofferati's report. the document focuses on the need to ensure greater transparency in the activities of companies in order to regain the trust of eu citizens and promote shareholder engagement. the text approved contains important tools to combat tax evasion and avoidance and also provides for the introduction of rules requiring companies to explain how their directors' remuneration policy contributes to the long-term interests of the company.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the proposal for a directive adopted today is clearly to improve financial stability and to encourage long-term investment. we believe that greater involvement of shareholders in corporate governance is one of the levers that can contribute to an improvement in the financial and non-financial performance of companies. since shareholder rights are not the only long-term factor to be taken into account in corporate governance, it is appropriate to provide for additional measures to ensure greater involvement of all stakeholders, in particular employees, local authorities and civil society. in order to facilitate shareholder engagement in listed companies, listed companies should have the possibility to know the identity of their shareholders and to communicate directly with them. we therefore call for greater transparency both to ensure and improve the identification of shareholders themselves and in relation to the activities of large companies, and in particular to profits made, taxes paid on profits and subsidies received, salaries and remuneration of directors, which is essential to regain confidence and promote the involvement of shareholders and citizens of the european union in companies.
in writing. ‒ i thank mr cofferati for his work and support him as he puts forward a long-term perspective on the management of listed businesses by focusing not only on shareholders but also on employees, consumers and local communities who play a very important role.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report presented by mr cofferati on long-term shareholder engagement and the report on corporate governance, which aims to contribute to the long-term sustainability of eu companies, create favourable conditions for shareholders and improve cross-border exercise of voting rights by increasing the efficiency of the equity investment chain in order to contribute to growth, job creation and competitiveness in the eu. the central themes of the text presented are the remuneration of managers, the identification of shareholders and the publication of certain data such as the tax returns of companies: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information is not disclosed to third parties.
in writing. ‒ following the luxleaks scandal, a very high level of transparency is needed, including ambitious measures against tax evasion and avoidance. it is important, however, that this report has defined the long-term orientation of the companies and shareholders and, above all, has established the key elements of the management of the company and its corporate governance. in order to ensure transparency of the tax strategies of large companies, it is necessary to introduce country-by-country reporting for large companies and listed companies and to clarify the activities and taxes paid. in addition, it is essential to ensure a good level of transparency for the engagement of institutional investors and asset managers in the companies in which they invest, ensuring an effective link between the remuneration of directors and their contribution to the long-term success of the companies entrusted to them. the fight against tax evasion can and must be done through the use of new instruments: the annual reporting of publicly traded companies is one of them.
in writing. i voted in favour of the cofferati report because, although it contains significant gaps, it introduces two important innovations: the obligation for multinational companies to declare profits generated and taxes paid in each country in which they operate, and a system of incentives to promote the long-term participation and social sustainability of companies. however, in negotiations between the groups, the text was considerably weakened, sacrificing important provisions on corporate governance. the final text has removed all reference to the involvement of employees and their right to express an opinion on the remuneration policy of managers, which will instead be expressed by the majority of shareholders, with a non-binding vote. the ceiling on the bonus of managers and the obligation to disclose information on the ratio of the average remuneration of managers to employees were also abolished. the directive is even at risk of being watered down further by the states because of the wide margin of discretion which was left in the transposition phase. this directive is nevertheless an important step forward in the fight against tax evasion and short-term finance. i hope therefore that the member states will not compromise its effectiveness further at the implementation stage and, above all, at the negotiation stage with the council.
in writing. ‒ the financial crisis has highlighted the need to reform the internal governance system of listed companies as short-term risk-taking has been identified as a key factor in the current economic crisis and the high share turnover rate. the revision of directive 2007/36/ec on the requirements relating to the exercise of certain shareholder rights in listed companies therefore aims to improve stability and increase long-term investment by encouraging shareholders of listed companies to be more active and engaged and to focus on the long-term performance of the company. the cofferati report represents an improvement on the original commission proposal and the council's general position, particularly as regards the reference to country-by-country reporting on taxes paid; this is a major step towards greater transparency of listed companies to avoid future cases such as the recent luxleaks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text on the revision of the shareholder rights directive because i believe that revising these rules can be crucial to boosting long-term investment and to reviving the european economy. i think it is particularly appropriate to introduce country-by-country reporting on taxation by large companies. it is necessary to introduce mechanisms to ensure full transparency in taxation for multinational companies, in the context of the wider battle to abolish tax havens. i remember that the provision of this mechanism was a priority for us socialists and democrats and i consider the provision of the cbcr a great political victory for my group. finally, i agree with the need for shareholders to have a say in the remuneration of the directors of listed companies.
mr president, i have supported this report, albeit with some reservations. this report states, more or less, that the creation of the market stability reserve system, i.e. the new emission trading system, is to take place as early as 2019. however, the czech republic, which i represent here, as well as the other visegrad countries, wanted this date to be two years later, that is, in 2021. the visegrad countries, and therefore the czech republic, were concerned that this change in the allowance market might to some extent weaken, damage the industry in the czech republic and in other visegrad countries. so, finally, the compromise is 2019. i supported it because i was aware that some change in the market had to happen if the current situation was not sustainable in the long term. so i'm going to watch to see if this change is going to hurt or not hurt the industry and i'm going to hope that there's no damage to the industry.
mr president, the european union has finally decided to improve the system for trading greenhouse gas emission allowances. the recession and the allocation of emission allowances have long led to an excess of allowances, with a consequent collapse in the price of carbon. it goes without saying that a low carbon price does not stimulate industry to make its plants more efficient and to avoid using polluting fuels, such as coal, and it is an obstacle to the transition to cleaner energy funds. the surplus allowances will eventually be put into a reserve, the so-called market stability reserve, which will aim to stabilise the carbon market, lead to an increase in the price of carbon and thus encourage industries to pollute less and invest in more efficient infrastructure and cleaner energy sources. it would have been preferable to introduce the reserve in 3017 in order to correct the functioning of the market as soon as possible. however, considering that the commission's proposal envisaged 2021 as the beginning of 2019, as provided for in the agreement, this is a good result overall. and it is an important signal from the european union, especially in view of the forthcoming conference in paris.
in writing. ‒ the belet report is unclear and contains passages which i consider critical, which is why i did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the report and the text on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the market stabilisation reserve in the eu greenhouse gas emission trading scheme are a useful step towards putting the system adopted by the european union in 2003 back on track. the union's emissions trading system (eu ets) has been particularly affected by distortions since the beginning of the economic crisis, which have progressively led to an imbalance between supply and demand. the risks of omitting these failures are high and would impede the achievement of a harmonised and cost-effective emission reduction system. the amended text has the advantage of addressing the key points that need to ensure the transition to a low-carbon economy, acting directly on the supply and demand side to ensure the true value of allowances. this report, which i fully support, must be a welcome sign of the overall reform of the ets system which the commission is about to introduce. a reform that must combine environmental sustainability, technological innovation and industrial competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour of this proposal because i am convinced that the introduction of a market stabilisation reserve in the eu's greenhouse gas emission trading system will allow the system to function better by giving it the flexibility and capacity to cope with changing market conditions or protect the ets from unexpected and sudden shocks in demand.
in writing. ‒ greenhouse gases are a major factor in altering the planet's environmental balance and are the main cause of global warming. reducing greenhouse gas emissions means not only stopping pollution, but also preventing tropical climate change and limiting the impact of natural disasters, with positive consequences for the health and safety of citizens, the environment and economic savings. we must not only reduce emissions of polluting gases (the 40% reduction target for 2030 is certainly a positive step, an important step on the road to full environmental sustainability, not the final goal), but also improve electricity grids, integrating them and supporting measures to make them more efficient. the implementation of energy-saving technologies is useful in reducing the high energy demands in the union by making consumption more efficient and making the use of electricity cheaper for citizens.
in writing. - i vote against it. this is the permanent elimination of emission allowances already set aside (see back-loading) in order to cause an artificial increase in the price of the allowance, which is considered too low. the commission's blind faith in the market's ability to balance itself is well known. it is therefore rather odd that it considers the ets the only market that is not naturally optimal and resilient, presumably as a result of the particularly artificial and ideological nature of this market itself.
in writing. ‒ to ensure compliance with the kyoto protocol's obligations to reduce emissions of climate-changing gases, the eu has created an emissions trading market through the emission trading scheme directive (directive 2003/87/ec). the very idea that the price of gas emissions can be left to market laws is wrong. moreover, to date, the main beneficiaries of this market - treated like any other market - have been stock market speculators, large banking groups, financial companies and insurance companies. the text also does not include measures which we proposed to raise the price of co2 rapidly, so as to potentially accelerate the stimulus to energy innovation. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a parliament and council decision on the establishment and operation of a market stabilisation reserve in the eu's greenhouse gas emission trading system (ets). on 22 january 2014, the commission presented a proposal for a market stabilisation reserve, together with a communication on the 2020 to 2030 framework for energy and climate policies. the commission proposal aims to make structural changes to the emissions trading system (ets) to deal with the surplus of emission allowances, currently estimated at over 2 billion, and to remedy the shortcomings of the system so that it can achieve the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in a cost-effective and economically efficient manner, as required by the ets directive. since the surplus of allowances is detrimental to the long-term effectiveness of the system, it is necessary to take action by adopting measures to correct the deficiencies of the ets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a decision because i believe that the agreement reached with the council is an appropriate and balanced agreement. in order to achieve the objectives of effective reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the emissions trading system (ets) needs to be made more effective. the surplus of allowances, unfortunately, jeopardises the long-term effectiveness of this system, making the trading mechanism obsolete and therefore an effective reduction in emissions. moreover, the lack of flexibility on the supply side of the quotas does not allow, at this stage, to deal adequately with market fluctuations and unforeseen shocks on the demand side. the aim of this proposal is therefore to correct the errors which have been made in the construction of this system of trade. the introduction of a market stabilisation reserve will therefore make it possible to guarantee industry a more stable and predictable market where supply fluctuations will be regulated by appropriate rules. for all these reasons i welcome this proposal because i believe it is important to insist on and try to improve a european emission control system which is efficient and at the same time ensures that companies are competitive on the market.
in writing. ‒ the ets is the main instrument for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, based on cost-effectiveness and economic efficiency. however, the current surplus of allowances is detrimental to the long-term effectiveness of the system, undermining its proper functioning and significantly increasing the price of carbon. in this context, the proposal for a market stabilisation reserve, by correcting a structural deficiency in the ets, would provide industry with a medium- to long-term perspective. i therefore intend to vote in favour of this proposal on the basis of these considerations.
in writing. ‒ m5s has challenged the idea that the pricing of climate-changing gas emissions can be left to market laws. stock speculators, large banking groups, financial and insurance companies have profited. added to this is the risk of exposing the carbon market to tax fraud, such as those that have exposed at least €5 billion of tax evasion by european taxpayers. our amendments to end the ets by 2020 have not been passed. we supported the amendments proposed by environmental ngos to limit the activation of the mechanisms of the reserve with a tighter scissors; increase the quota to be moved to/from the reserve from 100 m to 50 m; to cancel the 900m allowances blocked from backloading by bringing the entry into force of the reserve forward to 2017. these measures would have allowed a higher co2 price to be formed quickly by accelerating the stimulus to innovation for reducing emissions. although the amendments to bring forward the start date and to cancel part of the surplus allowances were passed by a majority in the envi committee, the final text does not take them into account. none of the points supported by our amendments has been incorporated into the agreement, and for these reasons i am voting against.
in writing. ‒ on 22 january 2014, the european commission presented a proposal for a market stabilisation reserve for energy and climate policies for the period 2020-2030. the commission's text aims to make structural changes to the ets to deal with excess emissions and to remedy the shortcomings of the system in order to achieve reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. the commission proposal responds to the call made by the european parliament, and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report on the permanent elimination of emission allowances (already set aside) in order to cause an artificial increase in the price of the allowance, which is considered too low. given the faith in the market that the eu follows on a daily basis, dissociation in this field is not understood.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by mr belet on the proposal for a parliament and council decision on the establishment and operation of a market stabilisation reserve in the eu's greenhouse gas emission trading system. the objective of reducing carbon dioxide emissions is one of the main challenges for the europe of the future, for a europe that acts as a leader in climate negotiations and is a leader in environmental protection. i therefore support the idea of correcting the dysfunctions of the ets system by creating a market stabilisation reserve, which will tackle the imbalance between the supply and demand of emission allowances by including in it the surplus allowances, which currently amount to some eur 2 billion. thanks to the efforts of the socialist group, the instrument will enter into force in 2019, two years earlier than in the commission proposal, and there is a commitment to review the entire ets legislation in the light of the paris outcome. in the meantime, the new system will ensure that flexibility in allocating the necessary quotas to european industry. i also welcome the launch of initiatives to stimulate new low-carbon technologies and innovative industrial processes.
in writing. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, ivo belet, and all my colleagues who have worked hard to achieve a great result on such a sensitive subject. the market stability reserve is an efficient instrument which will help us to stabilise the ets (emissions trading system) and thus save the backbone of european climate and energy policy. the agreement reached will enable us to get europe back on track in achieving the ambitious co2 reduction targets we have set ourselves (40% less by 2030). the new legislation is satisfactory for all parties involved in the negotiations, and this result has been possible thanks to a balancing act between the protection of climate prerogatives and the competitiveness of our companies, focusing on innovation and efficiency. the reform confirms the european union as the main actor in the fight against climate change, with concrete facts to be presented in view of the next cop 21 in paris, hoping that an ambitious agreement will be reached.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution on the creation of a market stabilisation reserve in the eu's greenhouse gas emission trading system is approved. the purpose of this proposal is to set up a market reserve in order to set a target of 40% reduction in gas emissions by the year 2030. the committee also supports the rapporteur's position on the need to identify new ways of allocating free allowances, particularly with regard to production levels and more efficient installations. the rapporteur's proposal to allocate part of the allowances in the reserve to be used for investment in low-carbon technologies and industrial processes should be approved.
in writing. ‒ the report by mr belet proposes a corrective system, the aim of which is to address a structural deficiency in the ets, which has so far not been able to allow sufficient flexibility in the supply of greenhouse gas emission allowances to cope with changing market conditions. i believe that the introduction of a reserve will help to ensure stability for industry in the medium and long term, and i have therefore decided to support this report.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this measure as necessary to achieve the greenhouse gas emission reduction target. this report shows that the commission's proposal is exactly in line with parliament's approach and therefore deserves our full support. the reform of the emissions trading system (ets) is aimed at correcting the shortcomings of the system and allowing it to function as originally intended. indeed, the proposal on the market stabilisation reserve as such would correct a structural deficiency in the original design of the ets that did not allow sufficient flexibility in the supply of allowances to cope with changing market conditions or protect the ets from unexpected and sudden shocks in demand. in the light of all this, we strongly support this report which proposes structural reform so that the ets remains at the heart of the eu's co2 reduction policy. we therefore join the rapporteur in calling on the commission to submit the proposal to parliament again if it intends to substantially amend it or replace it with a new text and in instructing the president of the european parliament to forward the position of the european parliament to the council and the commission as well as to the national parliaments.
in writing. ‒ the stability reserve provides for a cut in surplus greenhouse gas emission allowances, helping to stabilise the carbon market and enabling the emissions of these gases to be reduced efficiently. the reform of the allowance trading system is an important pillar in the challenging path towards a better environmental sustainability policy. the european union is reiterating its commitment to the environment by taking a leading role in the fight against the greenhouse effect and climate change. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i support the committee's report on the benefits of introducing a stabilisation reserve on the market and agree that it is necessary for the ets to remain at the heart of the eu's co2 reduction policy, whereas otherwise the ets would be on the verge of collapse (without an investment incentive for the carbon price) and there would be nothing left but a return to the 'nationalisation' of climate policy. in my view, this would be a failure of all the aims and progress made by the union, and above all i believe that the common climate policy is essential to achieve the international objectives set.
in writing. ‒ in january 2014, the commission adopted the ets-msr proposal with the aim of making structural changes to the emissions trading system (ets) to address the surplus of emission allowances (currently estimated at over two billion). in particular, the commission proposed that a market stability reserve be created as from 2021. i believe that the proposal is in the right direction in order to stabilise the emissions trading market and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in line with the position of my group, the epp, i voted in favour of the final report of the negotiations between parliament, the council and the commission on the introduction of the 'market stabilisation reserve in the eu greenhouse gas emission trading scheme'. despite initial fears, the compromise reached will not be too bad for industry, especially energy-intensive industries, although it will certainly lead to an increase in the price of emission allowances. the new instrument is part of the review of the ets, the first proposal for which is expected to be received by the ec in mid-july.
in writing. - i voted against this proposal. we're not going to fix a broken system by fixing the root of the problem. the problem is at the root: by still extracting fossil fuels, we inevitably create a problem and then scramble to find a solution. the ets was conceived at a time when co2 emissions were much more linked to the production area. today, with the shifting of emissions, it is difficult for the ets to achieve its overall emission reduction targets.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report introducing a market stability reserve in the context of the greenhouse gas emissions trading system. the ets requires immediate corrective action to restore the proper functioning of the mechanism. the economic crisis, together with excessive free allocations, had reduced the price of emissions to a level that rendered the entire emissions market completely inefficient. i think it is appropriate to introduce a market reserve to support allowance prices. i am particularly concerned about the decision to include backloading allowances directly in the reserve and the decision to bring forward the entry into force of the mrs to 2019. both of the provisions adopted today are the result of proposals which my group supported in the first place.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament today approved the reform of the european emissions trading system (ets), which aims to reduce the surplus of emission allowances allocated to the market in order to support their price and thus facilitate the reduction of co2 emissions. this is a very important vote as the economic crisis and the oversupply of allowances under the eu emissions trading system (ets) has led to a significant destabilisation of the system. the creation of a market stabilisation reserve will not only send a strong signal to the markets but has already started to influence long-term investment decisions, thereby avoiding costly errors and technological lock-in.
in writing. ‒ the morin-chartier report is balanced and supportive in setting common minimum standards to improve working conditions for employees in this sector across europe. that is why i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important that the european union should take action to improve the working conditions of seafarers employed on a ship flying the flag of one of the 28 member states, by including this category within the scope of the five european directives on workers' rights.
in writing. ‒ the vote in favour of this directive underlines our commitment to fair treatment of all workers in all sectors. despite the general application of eu labour law to all sectors and categories of workers, seafarers in some member states are excluded from the application of european directives, especially on safety at work, the right to information and consultation and the right to fair and just working conditions. in addition to having a negative impact on the rights recognised by the charter of fundamental rights, this heterogeneity in the application of the european framework in fact causes a clear discrimination in the same category of workers who are treated differently in the various member states. with the adoption of this directive we intend to put an end to the exclusion of seafarers from the five existing directives with the aim of protecting their rights and guaranteeing them equal treatment.
in writing. - i vote for it. common european minimum standards to improve the working conditions of seafarers.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on seafarers, amending directives 2008/94/ec, 2009/38/ec, 2002/14/ec, 98/59/ec and 2001/23/ec. the report welcomes the commission's proposal to strengthen the rights of seafarers by amending five directives on labour law in order to include workers in maritime professions within the scope of those directives. i think that the attempt to create genuinely uniform conditions for those affected by the existing derogations is to be welcomed. in addition to providing for the full application of the relevant directives to seafarers, seafarers should enjoy the same rights as shore-based workers in terms of equal pay for work of equal value, without distinction based on nationality, place of residence, race, gender, sexual orientation, disability or age.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the directive on seafarers is to increase the protection of their rights by ensuring that they are no longer excluded from the scope of certain key social rights. the first of these is the right to fair working conditions in the broad sense, and therefore the right to protection, information and consultation on decisions affecting the category.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on seafarers. the commission proposal aims to improve working conditions for seafarers on board ships flying the flag of one of the 28 member states of the european union, while taking account of the specificities of the sector in question. the proposal for a directive therefore provides for the revision of five previously adopted directives which excluded seafarers from their scope. in addition, improving the working conditions of seafarers will help to give the sector a new impetus, which will contribute to achieving the two objectives set out in the commission's 2007 blue paper, namely to increase the number of workers employed in the maritime and fisheries sectors in terms of quantity and to improve their working conditions in terms of quality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because it will allow a general improvement in the working conditions of all seafarers working on board ships of one of the 28 member states of the union. before this agreement was reached, the category of seafarers was excluded from the application of five european directives which recognised important protections in fundamental areas of labour law. their exclusion was caused by the obstructionism of the main european social partners, who thus took advantage of the different levels of protection granted by european countries. this agreement will now make it possible to put an end to discriminatory situations for seafarers and unfair competition between member states. some of them, in favour of improving working conditions, ignored these exclusions and extended the provisions of these directives to seafarers, or at least took them into account in part, while other countries complied with them in their entirety. we will finally be able to offer uniform working conditions to all those employed in the sector and to make it more attractive to young people too.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of this directive, as i believe that it is appropriate to improve the working conditions of seafarers by including this category in some of the directives from which they were previously excluded. i therefore welcome the agreement reached between the social partners, which will put an end to a discriminatory situation and make the maritime sector more attractive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european commission directive to improve the working conditions of seafarers employed on board ships flying the flag of one of the 28 member states of the european union. improving working conditions will help to give new impetus to this sector and will contribute to achieving one of the main objectives set out in the blue paper published by the commission on 10 october 2007, namely the quantitative increase in the number of workers employed in the maritime sector.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report, which contains indications of common minimum standards to improve working conditions for seafarers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amending directive to improve the level of protection of seafarers because after years of unequal treatment of workers, it has finally come to an end. eu labour law has so far applied to all workers in all sectors; however, the directives in force allowed seafarers to be excluded from certain provisions relating to the protection of workers. the purpose of this important amendment is to level the protection of workers and to improve the quality of jobs in the maritime sector as a whole and to allow for equal treatment. the maritime sector is very important for many regions and member states, but the lack of an integrated approach between the different components has prevented a situation of equal treatment. under the integrated maritime policy, the commission reviewed with the social partners the exemptions under eu labour law and, after identifying areas where inequalities persisted (collective redundancies, information and consultation, business transfers, employer insolvency and european works council), made a proposal for amendment, which received the full support of the ep.
in writing. my vote on this report was in favour. the commission proposal aims to improve working conditions for seafarers on board ships flying the flag of one of the 28 eu member states. the proposal for a directive therefore provides for the revision of other directives which excluded seafarers from their scope. seafarers have the right to a safe and secure workplace where safety standards are respected, to fair employment conditions and to decent living and working conditions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive amending previously adopted directives relating to the exclusion of seafarers working on board ships flying the flag of one of the eu member states from their scope. the proposal aims to improve and maintain the rights and conditions of workers in order to remedy a discriminatory situation for seafarers. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. ‒ the report signed by mrs morin-chartier refers to the european commission's proposal to improve the conditions of workers employed on board ships flying the flag of one of the 28 member states of the european union. i am aware that, in general terms, an improvement in the conditions of workers goes hand in hand with more rational economic development, and i have decided to support the document in question.
in writing. ‒ we support this draft legislative resolution without reservation, as it is necessary to improve the working conditions of seafarers working on board ships flying the flag of one of the 28 member states of the european union. the specific characteristics of the sector in question make it clear that the rapporteur's work is moving in this direction. the proposal for a directive revises five previously adopted directives. the recent agreement between the european social partners has made it possible to make progress and to put an end to a discriminatory situation for seafarers as well as to unfair competition between member states which favoured improvements in working conditions and therefore did not apply or applied to a very limited extent the exclusions, on the one hand, and member states which applied them fully, on the other. we therefore congratulate the social partners and the rapporteur on the work they have done which will improve the working conditions of seafarers and give new impetus to this sector, also by increasing the number of workers employed in the maritime and fisheries sectors.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased that the social partners have finally reached an agreement on seafarers employed on board vessels, because i believe that this type of discrimination must be eliminated from the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have always been committed to greater attention to the protection of workers, particularly those who are excluded from certain levels of social protection. i voted in favour of this report also in view of the particular attention i pay to the activities of all maritime workers. the commission's proposal includes maritime workers in six directives from which they were previously excluded, namely directive 2008/94/ec on the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer (hereinafter referred to as the 'insolvency directive'), directive 2009/38/ec on the establishment of a european works council (hereinafter referred to as the 'european works council directive'), directive 2002/14/ec establishing a general framework for the information and consultation of employees (hereinafter referred to as the 'information and consultation directive'), council directive 98/59/ec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to collective redundancies (hereinafter referred to as the 'collective redundancies directive') and directive 2001/23/ec on the safeguarding of employees' rights in the event of transfers of undertakings (hereinafter referred to as the 'business transfers directive').
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on seafarers. the commission proposal is designed to improve working conditions for seafarers on board ships flying the flag of one of the 28 member states of the european union, while taking account of the specific characteristics of the sector in question.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the initiative to ensure greater protection for a category of workers at particular risk, such as seafarers.
in writing. ‒ today's vote will put an end to a discriminatory situation for maritime workers and will combat unfair competition at eu level. the abolition of the exclusions of seafarers from the scope of five european directives will ensure that workers employed on board ships flying the flag of one of the 28 member states enjoy better and more uniform working conditions. i therefore voted in favour of the agreement reached, and i am pleased that a specific reference has also been made to the use of new information and communication technologies, which can enable the exchange of information and dialogue with seafarers. improving personnel policy is certainly an important step forward in improving the quality of jobs and making maritime careers, whose popularity has declined sharply in recent years, more attractive. despite this important development in labour law, however, much remains to be done to ensure the rejuvenation and future of the european maritime and fisheries sector.
in writing. ‒ the commission's proposal for a directive reflects the europe 2020 strategy and its employment objectives. it is important to define a legal framework within the european union with an integrated approach to all policies aimed at improving competitiveness in the maritime sector as well. the agreement reached between the main social partners at european level makes it possible to make progress and to put an end to a discriminatory situation for seafarers. the text adopted strikes a balance between better protection of workers and the safeguarding of competitiveness, which is a key issue for the future of the european union. i also share the rapporteur's approach and call on all the institutions and member states to make a decisive contribution to improving working and living conditions on board ships and to exploit the potential for innovation in the sector, also to promote youth employment in this area.
in writing. ‒ i believe that scientific and technological cooperation agreements with third countries promote the industrial development of our companies and their inclusion in the market. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the buzek report analysing the eu-switzerland cooperation agreement on horizon 2020 and iter.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that switzerland is a key partner in both the economic and scientific and technological fields. i am therefore very much in favour of the conclusion of this agreement between the union and the swiss confederation, which i am convinced will bring many benefits to all parties involved.
in writing. ‒ agreement associating switzerland to horizon 2020 and governing its participation in iter (nuclear fusion research). we are therefore voting in favour of scientific and technological cooperation agreements with third countries.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on scientific cooperation between the eu and euratom and the swiss confederation associating the latter to the framework programme for research and innovation - horizon 2020. i have made my decision on the basis of the following considerations: - the close relationship between switzerland, the union and euratom must be enhanced also in relation to scientific and technological research, with the possibility of encouraging reciprocal access of their respective research bodies to research and technological development activities; - it is therefore strategic to allow participation in new research and technological development programmes on agreed terms; - this participation must be achieved through appropriate arrangements such as the one referred to in today's recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i have reservations about the iter issue and have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union, the european atomic energy community and switzerland. the measure in question associates switzerland with the horizon 2020 framework programme (2014-2020) for research and innovation and with the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community which complements horizon 2020 and governs the participation of the swiss confederation in the activities of the fusion for energy joint undertaking for the implementation of iter.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe it is important to increase scientific and technological cooperation between the european union, the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation. a close relationship is beneficial for both sides and, given the quality of swiss researchers and universities in the confederation, i think it is productive to join efforts towards common goals as this will produce broad and shared benefits. the objectives of the horizon 2020 research and innovation programme should therefore be pursued further and we should continue to work together to develop controlled fusion energy, which could provide a concrete solution to the problems of energy dependency and security.
in writing. ‒ i believe that it is of paramount importance to promote transnational research activities in order to maintain and strengthen europe's competitiveness. i believe that this agreement, by strengthening scientific and technological cooperation with the swiss confederation, is a good illustration of this intention. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ on 15 november 2013, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations, on behalf of the union and euratom, with the swiss confederation in order to conclude an agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation associating the swiss confederation to horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community complementing horizon 2020 and regulating the participation of switzerland in the iter activities carried out by fusion for energy. as regards switzerland's participation in the erasmus+ programme, negotiations were suspended following the swiss referendum of 9 february 2014, which put the federal council in the position of not being able to sign the protocol extending the eu-switzerland agreement on the free movement of persons to croatia. the swiss government has introduced a transitional scheme which allows the financing of student exchanges. switzerland would also like to participate in the successor to the media and culture programmes, creative europe. the above negotiations on the participation of switzerland will not be concluded until a solution to the problem of free movement has been found. for these reasons i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i had to abstain on the possibility of associating the swiss confederation to the horizon 2020 framework programme but above all to the iter activities. the latter is a large-scale scientific experiment to demonstrate the validity of fusion as a source of energy. iter has seven global partners: china, the eu, india, japan, south korea, russia and the united states. the problem with this project is the cost: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the research results are not distorted by the new technologies. the five star movement has not yet taken a position on the iter project, and that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i confirm my vote in favour of the research agreement with switzerland.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr buzek's proposal for the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the eu, the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation. this proposal associates switzerland with the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation and the european union research and training programme.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote, the itre committee followed up on the provisional agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community, on the one hand, and the swiss confederation, on the other, which associates the confederation with horizon 2020, an integrated funding programme for research, innovation and technology. this is a major agreement, which has been the result of the intensification of economic relations between the union and the confederation, and which underlines the need to provide a general framework for cooperation between the european commission and the swiss competition authority in competition matters.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote we give our strong approval to the conclusion of this agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and switzerland. we consider it essential to associate the swiss confederation with the community research and innovation programme horizon 2020 and with the research and training programme for the activities carried out by the fusion for energy joint undertaking for the construction of iter. the latter will in particular serve as a basis for various joint research and development activities concerning new fusion energy policies.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the itre commission, i believe that this agreement has great potential both in terms of technological and political progress and that it can lead to ever closer cooperation with this country, and for this reason i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the swiss confederation under the horizon 2020 programme. the eu-switzerland cooperation will cover only certain parts of the programme, namely 'excellent science', the first pillar of horizon 2020, actions under the specific objective 'spreading excellence and widening participation', and the activities carried out by the 'fusion for energy' joint undertaking (ju) for the construction of iter ('international thermonuclear experimental reactor'), an international initiative for the construction and testing of a nuclear fusion reactor in cadarache, france.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i recognise the importance of scientific and technological cooperation agreements with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report calling on the council to approve, on behalf of the union, the agreement for scientific cooperation between the eu, euratom and switzerland on the iter project. i find it important to involve switzerland in the development of projects in the context of horizon 2020, in particular with regard to the activities carried out by fusion for energy.
in writing. ‒ the citizenship income is a choice of dignity for citizens. the report approved by the european parliament is not about welfare, but about encouraging concrete and direct action to help the weakest and most marginalized sections of society. the warning from brussels is directed above all to those european countries such as italy and greece which do not yet provide for measures to support those who are in need, even if they are waiting for a job. 26 member states have income support measures in place. with this result on the report by the spokeswoman for the five star movement, laura agea, we hope that the whole of europe will move in the direction of guaranteeing a minimum income for citizenship in employment policies, that is, in the direction of guaranteeing the right to survive with dignity. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ although the text contains interesting points which i share, since amendment no 47 calling for further 'structural reforms' and 'budgetary discipline', and therefore for further troika impositions, was approved during the vote, i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the guidelines for member states' employment policies should be more geared towards growth and social cohesion, taking into account all the components of the economic system, from low-skilled workers to smes.
in writing. - i abstained. the report focuses on the call for all member states to adopt minimum income systems. the text contains other interesting points but the report makes no mention of the fact that setting a guaranteed minimum income in the context of wage deflation imposed by the euro risks becoming itself an instrument of wage deflation, i.e. of further incentive to cap working/pension income downwards (the 'guaranteed minimum'). the adoption of amendment no 47, which calls for further 'structural reforms' and 'budgetary discipline', that is, more doses of the troika's 'wrong medicine', makes it impossible for me to maintain my favourable attitude.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states guide the coordination of national policies and are based on the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the treaties provide that member states are to regard the promotion of employment as a matter of common concern and are therefore to adopt draft broad economic policy guidelines and guidelines for employment policies which are to be consistent with each other. the guidelines therefore lay down the basis for action by the member states in these areas. i voted in favour of this report because it highlighted the importance of creating quality and sustainable jobs, decent working conditions and wages, of promoting the fight against poverty, of achieving the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy through the european semester and of succeeding in reducing labour market segmentation and inequalities by fighting job insecurity.
in writing. ‒ ensuring a living wage for a decent life throughout the eu is one of the biggest battles for me and the 5 star movement. i could only vote in favour of the excellent report by my colleague laura agea, which stresses the importance of policies to ensure that wages provide an adequate livelihood income in order to create jobs and reduce poverty in the union.
in writing. ‒ the deep and protracted economic crisis continues to have a serious impact on employment in all countries; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. full employment, which the lisbon treaty has re-proposed as the eu's objective, must be the pillar around which to build and plan policies for the coming years. if we are to prevent recovery and growth from being mere hopes, then courageous and decisive decisions will have to be taken. the high unemployment rates are now unacceptable and it is clear that a reversal of course is needed which points in the only possible direction: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that the member states will take some useful cues from the guidelines for employment policies to review their internal policies to combat unemployment. the reduction of the tax burden on labour, as indicated in guideline 5, should be the element on which the states should make the greatest effort. the report voted on today in the house complements and improves in my view the text proposed by the commission, and for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. the aim of this proposal is to support the europe 2020 strategy in the context of the new approach to economic decision-making built on investment, structural reform and fiscal responsibility.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on employment, which is still one of the most discussed issues in times of economic and financial crisis. at european level, we are always looking to stimulate growth: the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the poorest countries in the community. it is not easy, especially at this particular moment in history when relocation continues to be a growing phenomenon. promoting a competent and skilled workforce also responds to the shared need to achieve the goals of full employment and social progress, which have always been among the most promoted objectives of the eu system. job creation is one of the most important challenges facing us today and requires determined and coordinated policy action at both national and union level. boosting investment, sme funding, support for enterprises, start-ups, the agricultural sector, all topics on our agenda to try to increase the supply of jobs. particular attention is paid to young people, encouraging their education and training to facilitate their entry into the world of work.
in writing. ‒ although i voted in favour of mrs agea's report, i cannot help expressing my concern about some of the points in this report which are aimed at creating forms of income support and social protection. personally, i am opposed to welfare measures such as the citizenship income. i believe that measures are needed to stimulate economic growth and to create new jobs. at the moment, especially in italy, youth unemployment and the relocation of many firms are major structural problems. rather, public resources should be channelled towards concrete objectives such as promoting entrepreneurship among young people, improving education and training systems to prevent school drop-out and brain drain, and reducing red tape to relieve smes of often unnecessary burdens.
in writing. ‒ the treaties stipulate that member states must regard their economic policies and the promotion of employment as a matter of common interest. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states because i think it is a good text, which meets the positions of the s&d group and our country. the report focuses on a number of important issues such as the creation of sustainable and quality jobs, decent working conditions and wages, the fight against poverty, the reduction of labour market segmentation, gender equality and the reduction of inequalities by combating job insecurity.
in writing. ‒ the report by m5s colleague laura agea on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states has passed the consultation, thus defining the european parliament's position on the matter. the text was approved by a majority of the house (520 votes in favour, 116 against and 60 abstentions). this report sets out the employment guidelines, i.e. it defines the common priorities and objectives for employment policies; they follow the latest employment guidelines adopted in 2010 to define the europe 2020 strategy. the key points of the report are mainly about the need to combat social exclusion and all forms of poverty. we voted in favour because this text contains key points for the m5s, such as the adoption of measures such as a guaranteed minimum income in all member states, as income support and social protection already exist in 26 member states at the moment. this key point, which has been supported by commissioner thyssen, expresses the need to ensure adequate subsistence income to create employment and reduce poverty in the union, as economic policies cannot be based solely on the achievement of fiscal parameters.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report, which urges member states to adopt minimum income systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendations for the employment guidelines of the member states because they are the legal instrument, albeit non-legislative, by which the ep can influence the future work of the ec and in particular can moderate the tendency, very frequent in the ec, to think that the creation of new jobs is not independent of flexibility, which is often synonymous with precariousness. on the contrary, as european socialists and democrats, we believe that new, quality and sustainable jobs must be created and that to do this we need a more comprehensive economic strategy that promotes growth and redistributes investment, and last but not least that workers must be adequately paid and protected in the workplace. the resolution adopted by the ep, with the substantial contribution of the s&d group, even earlier through amendments tabled by the undersigned together with other authoritative colleagues from the group, insists on the new indicators (on poverty, the guaranteed minimum wage) and on fighting against the segmentation of the labour market, against precarious work, underemployment, against undeclared work and against the zero-hour contract mentioned in the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the unemployment rate is the real indicator of how much europe is suffering. europe cannot be united as long as there are countries with youth unemployment rates of over 40% compared with a european average of less than half. i voted in favour of this report because the objective must not be just to create jobs. more broadly, the objective of states should be to create a more inclusive and rights-based labour market, accompanied by adequate social protection.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs agea's report. member states and the union should work towards developing an effective and coordinated strategy for employment, aimed at countering the serious effects of unemployment and promoting a competent and skilled workforce and labour markets that are responsive to economic, social and environmental change. the high unemployment which unfortunately characterizes several eu countries must be strongly combated and support for employment, especially youth employment, is the priority of our political action.
in writing. ‒ the report on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states is welcomed. to achieve this, member states must encourage participation in the labour market and make employment more attractive, improve and ensure the quality of education and training systems and the possibility of lifelong learning. the european union must continue to take all the necessary measures to put in place as a matter of priority an effective strategy for full employment.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the member states, with the support of the european union, should work towards developing a coordinated and far-reaching strategy for employment. the latter should aim at the promotion of a competent workforce, employable in the labour market and able to respond to economic changes. for these reasons, i have decided to support this report, which sets out the guidelines for the development of successful employment policies by the member states of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the economic and financial crisis has revealed serious shortcomings in the economies of the member states and in the coordination mechanisms at eu level. it also stressed the close interdependence between the economies and labour markets of the member states. we have voted in favour of this report, which is intended to help define the next guidelines for european employment policies. bringing the european union to a state of strong, sustainable and inclusive growth and job creation, thus eliminating the large pockets of unemployment found in certain areas of its territory, is the most important challenge facing the union today. this requires determined, coordinated, ambitious but above all effective political action, both at union and national level, in line with the provisions of the treaty and the economic governance of the union. such actions should include the reinforcement of investments, especially those aimed at the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, micro-enterprises, innovative start-ups and companies promoting technological research and innovation. our ultimate goal must be to create a more inclusive labour market, based on rights and accompanied by adequate social protection.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states because i believe that all the member states of the community must be aware that some countries have been severely affected by the crisis in europe and that this is the reason why the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy have not yet been achieved.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the main priorities of the european union's political action must be to combat unemployment and create jobs. in particular, millions of young europeans are faced with the prospect of no jobs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. the treaty requires the member states to regard their economic policies and the promotion of employment as a matter of common interest and to coordinate their action within the council. the current set of 'integrated guidelines' supports the europe 2020 strategy and is part of the new approach to economic policy. i hope that the latter will provide a common ground on which to work to win the fight against unemployment. i therefore consider that i should vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr agea on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states.
in writing. the employment guidelines proposed in the report set out priorities and objectives which are clearly shared. the member states and the union must work to develop an effective and coordinated strategy for employment policies, designed to tackle the two major problems now facing many member states: poverty and unemployment. the five star movement has always aimed to create an inclusive labour market that includes the adoption of poverty reduction measures, such as a guaranteed minimum income. according to the european social observatory, income support and social protection already exist in 26 member states and must be introduced in the remaining european countries in order to cope with the current serious employment situation, exacerbated by the ongoing economic crisis. the tax burden should be shifted from labour to other sources of taxation that are less harmful to growth and employment, and it is essential to promote youth entrepreneurship and the revival of investment, especially those aimed at the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, innovative start-ups and companies that promote green employment. for the reasons i have outlined, i therefore supported the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal on the employment guidelines which set out the common priorities and objectives for employment policies. the themes are numerous, including: the adoption of measures to combat extreme poverty and social exclusion, such as a guaranteed minimum income, to be established in all member states; ensuring wages that provide an adequate subsistence income to ensure a decent life throughout the eu; the development of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, innovative start-ups and companies promoting green employment; the monitoring and evaluation of the employment guidelines, based on accurate data; the promotion of youth entrepreneurship and active ageing strategies; and ensuring access to quality early childhood education and care at reasonable costs. in addition, 10 million is earmarked for payments for the establishment and organization of the european investment advisory hub, a facility provided for by the efsi which we consider to be superfluous. finally, although the text does indicate that efforts will be made in the annual budgetary procedures to make up the cuts made to these programmes (cef and horizon), there is no guarantee at present that this will actually be done.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the egf to the amount of eur 1 365 000 to help the 568 workers made redundant by broadcom communications finland and two of its suppliers as a result of the continuing crisis in the electronics industry in finland. the globalisation adjustment fund is a key instrument to support the internal market, but this europe should combat the underlying malfunctions of the internal market by stopping the wild relocation and ruthless competition from asia and china.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that finnish workers who have lost their jobs in recent years as a result of changes in the overall structure of the electronics industry should be supported, including financially.
in writing. - i voted yes. € 1,365,000 for 568 redundancies at broadcom communications finland and two suppliers, due to the ongoing crisis in the electronics industry in finland (cf. nokia crisis)
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf, set up to provide additional support for workers who suffer from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade) which refers to the application submitted by finland in relation to 568 redundancies at broadcom communications finland, a company operating in the electronics and electrical engineering industries. in recent years, asia has emerged as the largest employer in this sector. in europe, by contrast, the number of employees has begun to decline. this trend seems to affect the entire electronics industry in finland, as demonstrated by nokia's announcement in 2011 of large-scale redundancies. the surpluses therefore appear to be linked to changes in the structure of world trade. i therefore voted in favour of this measure. i regret that italian companies are not able to benefit more from the egf because of the lack of support from local and national institutions, which submitted only 14 applications in total between 2007 and 2014.
in writing. ‒ we had to vote on the report by mr petri sarvamaa on the request to mobilise eur 1 365 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund to help 500 redundant workers (out of a total of 568) affected by the crisis in a finnish company operating in the trade sector. the delegation from the m5s is in favour of the mobilisation of this fund as a general rule, but we are also aware that it is certainly not the instrument that can best help the workers. however, in the absence of alternatives, it must be supported, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the egf for the finnish company broadcom. the measure in question refers, in the context of the 2015 budget, to the mobilisation of the fund for a total amount of eur 1 365 000. it concerns 500 of the 600 redundant workers at broadcom and two suppliers or downstream producers. the request is based on the professional relocation of redundant workers from broadcom, a company operating in the economic sector classified in division 49 of nace rev. 2 and from two suppliers or downstream producers. it should be noted that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide support for workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the finnish authorities state that the event that led to the bankruptcy of broadcom is the decision to cease all its activities in finland. the reasons for this are the emergence of asia in the electronics and electrical engineering industry and the negative development of the finnish domestic market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund as the finnish situation has the characteristics to justify the mobilisation of the fund and technically its request complements the requirements of article 12 of council regulation (eu) no 1311/2013. this european fund was established to support workers who have been affected by the changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation and who have been aggravated by the continuing global economic and financial crisis. broadcom communications finland considered that 568 workers were redundant, further aggravating the unemployment problem. through the use of these funds, finland will be able to support these workers in their not only reintegration into employment.
in writing. ‒ the finnish authorities have submitted a specific application for a financial contribution from the egf to support the reintegration of redundant workers at broadcom. i believe that the changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation have had a strong impact on the decision of the company to scale down its activities. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the mobilisation of the fund.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the significant consequences of changes in the structure of world trade. i supported the mobilisation of the egf for finland to support the reintegration of 500 redundant workers at broadcom, a wholesale company hit hard by the global crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the award of eur 1 365 000 for the 568 redundancies at broadcom communications finland and two suppliers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr sarvamaa on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of a contribution of eur 1 365 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund in respect of the application egf/2015/001 fi/broadcom submitted by finland. this aid is intended to make good the redundancy of 568 workers at the electronics company bradcom, which has suffered from competition from asian industrial operators and from the major changes in the electronic products sector due to globalisation. i believe that the eu should take care, even financially, of those territories, as in this specific case, which already suffer from high unemployment rates and which suddenly see less important employment realities. i am therefore in favour of measures to encourage new employment by encouraging the recruitment of redundant workers, and of financing measures to train and develop skills and to promote entrepreneurship in consultation with the social partners. europe must look to work with renewed impetus to achieve the full employment envisaged in the treaties.
in writing. i gave my favourable opinion on this proposal. the union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns or the global economic and financial crisis and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market. finland submitted an application egf/2015/001 fi/broadcom for a financial contribution from the egf, following 568 redundancies at broadcom communications finland. this is concrete support for workers in difficulty because of the crisis.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the egf. the proposal focuses on the need to identify incentives to support redundant workers at broadcom, a finnish company operating in the economic sector classified under 'wholesale trade other than motor vehicles and motorcycles'. the ultimate aim of this report is to disburse the sum of eur 1 365 000 to cover the reintegration of workers made redundant by the company, as requested in finland's application.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an eu instrument set up to provide support to workers affected by the changes in the structure of world trade due to the advance of globalisation. i believe that such an instrument should be implemented as quickly and efficiently as possible, and i have therefore decided to support the report by mr sarvamaa, which authorizes the mobilisation of the egf to help 500 redundant workers at broadcom, a finnish company.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for the finnish company broadcom, as it is intended to provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade. specifically, the aid is to support the reintegration into employment of redundant workers at broadcom, an enterprise in the economic sector classified under nace rev. 2 division 46 (wholesale trade, except for motor vehicles and motorcycles), and at two suppliers or downstream producers. unfortunately, the decision to cease all activities in finland is linked to the significant changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation: in the course of the 2000s, the number of employees in finnish subsidiaries operating on all continents increased, until in 2004 asia became the largest employer in the electronics and electrical engineering industry. this has led to a reduction in staff in europe. the funds will be used for measures to re-skill and train redundant staff and to re-integrate them into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i fully agree with the proposal to mobilise the egf for finland, because first of all there are no procedural flaws, and above all because these funds will benefit broadcom workers, who no longer have the economic capacity to pay their wages.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund provides support for people who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation, such as the closure of a company or the relocation of production to a country outside the eu, or as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. in particular, the report presented by mr sarvamaa on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund constitutes the request in the 2015 budget for the mobilisation of the egf for a total amount of eur 1 365 000 for 500 of the 568 redundant workers at broadcom (finland) and two suppliers or downstream producers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of giving aid to european workers affected by the crisis.
in writing. ‒ i do not share the views expressed in the fernandes report. the text contains too many unnecessary and unnecessary expenditure items and does not look like a budget geared to employment growth in the eu. for all these reasons i did not support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the main objectives of the union, which it must pursue, therefore also through its budget, must be full employment, the development of enterprises and entrepreneurship and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. - i voted against it. the text cannot reflect a budget that can be geared towards growth and full employment in the eu; the budgetary lines on unnecessary expenditure are still too numerous and the criticisms, even when they are expressed, clash with the european macro-economic reality, which is based mainly on austerity policies.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the mandate for the trilogue on the draft budget for 2016. in this report, parliament underlined the crucial importance of creating decent and quality jobs and developing enterprises and entrepreneurship, which must be at the heart of the 2016 budget of the european union. the reference to sustainable growth in the european union is fundamental. in reallocating investment, member states should consider environment and climate policies as an opportunity to promote growth. in particular, the proper implementation of environmental legislation and projects funded under horizon 2020 will support the creation of green jobs and economic growth among smes. in addition, in my role as co-chair of the european parliament's life working group, i cannot help but agree with the report in welcoming the increase in both commitment and payment appropriations for the life programme for the environment and climate action.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the mandate text for several reasons. firstly, the figures proposed by the european commission widen the gap between commitments and payments again, making it difficult to solve the problem of late payments, which has been going on for some years now. the european commission has also proposed to reduce the number of projects in the field of environmental protection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the mandate for the trilogue on the 2016 draft budget. the draft budget for 2016 amounts to eur 153,5 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 143,5 billion in payment appropriations. furthermore, as stated in its resolution of 11 march 2015, the european parliament has placed the creation of decent and quality jobs and the development of enterprises and entrepreneurship for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the european union, together with internal and external solidarity in a secure europe, at the heart of its priorities for the 2016 budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft budget because the creation of decent jobs and the development of enterprises and entrepreneurship are at the heart of the union's policies, which can only be activated through sound and prudent budgetary planning. the multiannual financial framework provides flexibility to allow member states to comply with their legal obligations and to respond to specific needs arising within the budgetary period. we have set as a priority the strengthening and support of investment, knowledge and employment. in support of the concept of a global europe, funds were also allocated to demonstrate the high degree of solidarity with third countries: the union budget is also a useful tool for helping people in need and promoting the core values of europe. these values are reflected in the budgets, not only in terms of numbers but also in social terms, because without a vision geared to the growth and development of european operators, the union would lack meaning.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft general budget of the eu for the financial year 2016, which aims to help member states first of all to address the structural challenges: creating new jobs, so as to combat unemployment, especially among young people; investing in enterprises and the green economy for smart growth; supporting the promotion of social inclusion and actions to eradicate poverty and empower those who pay in precarious conditions, in particular for those with multiple disadvantages, such as the long-term unemployed, the disabled, those belonging to minorities and inactive and demotivated people. i regret the cuts in appropriations for major infrastructure projects and the horizon 2020 and cosme programmes due to reallocation to the efsi, as well as the reduction in funding for the agricultural sector. i hope very much that the objectives set will be maintained and achieved, so that all those programmes which have had to suffer budget cuts can be given fresh breath.
in writing. - i vote against the mandate for the trilogue. the text does not reflect a budget that can be geared to growth and full employment in the eu.
in writing. i have decided to give a favourable opinion on this proposal. the union must aim at important objectives and voting on this mandate means charting the way to the new financial year. the eu must promote employment and support enterprises, especially smes, by encouraging entrepreneurship. all actors involved in the decision-making process must ensure that the 2016 budget has adequate resources for the proper implementation of all european policies, with a particular focus on priority policies and programmes with a high impact on growth and development, for the benefit of all european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report on the mandate for the trilogue on the draft budget 2016. the eu budget requires that the state of implementation of payments for the whole of 2015 be closely monitored, as well as the respect of the commitments made jointly by the three institutions (parliament, council and commission), and that the evolution and reduction of arrears be constantly monitored. in this context, it is recalled that the primary objective of the budget is to achieve the eu's objectives and priorities. the budget provides financial support for all programmes, such as the european structural and investment funds, cosme, erasmus+, which aim to stimulate investment in youth employment through job creation, social inclusion for the disabled and the elderly, and improving competitiveness and promotion by supporting incentives to support entrepreneurship in eu countries.
in writing. ‒ the setting of the annual spending priorities for the european union is a crucial moment. given the complexity of the institutional procedure behind the adoption of the union budget, it is important that the european parliament sits at the negotiating table with the other institutions involved, and can take account of proposals that are sustainable and shared across the board. i think that the text signed by mr fernandes is a good starting point in this respect. that is why i have decided to support it by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this report and hope that the outcome of the trilogue on the draft budget for 2016 will be as swift and fruitful as possible. we welcome the fact that the draft general budget for 2016, as presented by the commission, proposes to strengthen the european union's support for investment, knowledge, employment and growth-oriented programmes. this is certainly a step forward, and certainly a positive one, in supporting the member states to face the economic and financial challenges, in particular the loss of competitiveness in recent years. we cannot, however, fail to take this opportunity to reiterate our strong concern about the financing of the youth employment initiative as a key instrument for combating youth unemployment in the union, which is a top priority for all european policy-makers. the commission has also received comments from the member states and the european parliament on the application of the principle of proportionality. we therefore call for the flexibility provisions of the mff to be used, as far as possible, to achieve the policy objectives linked to growth and employment, in particular youth employment, thus ensuring the amounts needed for the full implementation of the initiative.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the mandate for the 2016 trilogue because i believe that it is consistent with the amount needed to implement all the actions needed to achieve the objectives the union has set itself.
in writing. ‒ the mandate for the trilogue contains an assessment of the draft budget, adopted by the commission on 27 may, and sets out parliament's positions for the trilogue scheduled for 14 july 2015. i voted in favour of this report, which is the second stage of the annual budgetary procedure, so that we can proceed with the legislative process.
in writing. ‒ in view of the trilogue to be held on 14 july, the rapporteur for the 2016 budget, mr fernandes, presented his report on the mandate for the trilogue. this is the second stage of the budgetary procedure as far as parliament's activities are concerned. the report presented to the house, for which i voted in favour, sets out parliament's priorities, which it will be fighting for in the negotiations. among the most important points are: employment, business development and entrepreneurship across the eu; solidarity within and beyond europe's borders; security and migration; the inclusion of a final agreement for the efsi in the 2016 budget and the compensation for the cuts that major programmes such as horizon 2020 and cef have had to suffer; a sufficient level of funding to promote the competitiveness of all businesses, with particular regard to small and medium-sized enterprises; the extension of the youth employment initiative programme.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because there are still too many budget lines on unnecessary expenditure and the criticisms, although present in the text, clash with the european macro-economic reality, which is mainly based on austerity policies.
in writing. ‒ i very much appreciate the efforts made by commissioner georgieva to make the union's budget more credible and i think her intentions are the best. however, we are faced with a reality that is far from the intentions, even in this text for the trilogy: i wonder, for example, how it is possible to give priority to the emf and horizon 2020 and then applaud the efsi agreement, which in fact cuts the very foundations of these two programmes. if we are to be consistent we must be consistent to the end, and therefore i think that the supporters of the european budget should have opposed the efsi agreement, because it undermines the same priorities as those enshrined in the eu. the money available is scarce, both for individual states and for europe: we must be able to make bold choices, and the next review of the mff is the right opportunity. the pre-accession funds, for example, could perhaps be reduced, so as to concentrate these indispensable resources elsewhere; of course, you need the political will to make choices like this, and i wonder if we have it.
in writing. ‒ the lambert initiative report looks at how to harness the potential of the green economy to create new jobs. i agree with the views of my colleague, but i have some reservations about the ideas contained in the text. the positions being advocated are overemphasized, with the risk that behind the positive intention to create new 'green' jobs, there is a desire to replace 'traditional' jobs with an overall balance for workers of equilibrium or even negative. for all these reasons, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that a transition to a green economy would bring enormous benefits not only to the environment but also to employment and the european labour market, especially through the creation of local jobs that cannot be relocated, in areas that cannot be transferred abroad and in crisis-hit sectors such as construction.
in writing. - i abstained on the measure. the risk is that green jobs will be seen as substitutes for traditional jobs rather than as complementary ones. with a negative net worth.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the green jobs initiative: harnessing the job-creating potential of the green economy. i consider this issue to be absolutely fundamental: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances and their by-products is based on the principle of subsidiarity. the development of new sectors focusing on innovation and pollution reduction, recycling, energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy should therefore be strongly encouraged, bearing in mind that they can make an important contribution to job creation. as the report points out, in parallel with the development of these sectors, initiatives should be taken to re-skill workers. to facilitate the transition to a green economy, targeted investment in education, training and research and development is therefore needed in order to train qualified personnel in the transition to a green economy model.
in writing. ‒ the report is a good text and incorporates many of our requests, such as the development of a database of training and job offers and best practices for the development of green employment, the centrality of research and the introduction of criteria to favour companies that have a virtuous and sustainable waste disposal cycle.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the green jobs initiative. the initiative was published by the european commission in july 2014 together with the green action plan for smes and the circular economy communication. the report highlights: 1) environmental tax reform; 2) energy and resource efficiency and 3) the development of the supply chain and the role of smes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that climate issues are one of the most important challenges of our time. this report appropriately highlights the opportunities linked to green employment, highlighting the most critical points and seeking to provide appropriate solutions. the green jobs initiative, launched by the commission in july 2014, promotes the creation of new jobs and business opportunities linked to a transition to new sustainable business and corporate models. efforts in this direction would make it possible to tackle, in addition to climate-related issues, other equally important challenges such as unemployment and energy dependence. in times of economic crisis such as the present, i believe it is important to invest in and encourage new high-tech sectors such as renewable energy, while promoting green innovation in traditional sectors such as manufacturing, construction, agriculture and tourism. this proposal therefore represents an important step towards a sustainable economic transition that will produce tangible benefits in all sectors and is a starting point for reducing unemployment and encouraging economic growth.
in writing. ‒ the transition to an eco-sustainable society and economy offers the potential to create new green jobs in almost all sectors, such as renewable energy, agriculture, fisheries, manufacturing and construction. not only that, but also in the service sector, such as tourism, transport, catering and education. although this transition will have a positive impact overall, it is also true that the european union is still unprepared for this development for several reasons: firms that would like to take action to make their business environmentally sustainable are not sure they can manage the risk or the process of change; the fact that the number of workers with the necessary skills is not guaranteed is due to the fact that there are still very few students who acquire skills in technology, science, engineering and mathematics. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that we should encourage member states to make full use of the wide range of european funding, including the structural and investment funds, by giving priority to smes that support the development of the green economy and job creation.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's green jobs initiative was published in july 2014 together with the sme action plan and the circular economy communication. in achieving the transition to a green economy, the involvement of the workforce will be essential. some sectors will be subject to considerable change, and this requires the efficient use of eu funds. the commission's communication presents a number of positive proposals, but it is important that all the european institutions contribute to an effective transition to jobs offered by green growth.
in writing. i can only be in favour of this report on green employment because, in addition to being an excellent report, it has also welcomed the opinion of the committee on the environment, for which i was rapporteur, which in particular aims to: phasing out environmentally harmful direct and indirect subsidies, including those for fossil fuels; developing models to shift taxation from labour to environmental pollution and to take account of the environmental impact of goods and services in line with the polluter pays principle; introducing tax exemptions and/or targeted subsidies for start-ups, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises providing products and services with high environmental added value, including low overall carbon content. closing the product life cycle also creates millions of jobs at all stages, from product design to production and consumption, and maintenance, repair, upgrading and reuse. specifically, improving resource efficiency could generate between 1.4 and 2.8 million jobs, and waste prevention, eco-design and reuse could save our businesses a net €600 billion.
in writing. ‒ we are of course in favour of employment and the environment, but this text has been exploited with an objectively excessive emphasis on 'green' places and with unrealistic considerations. i cannot therefore support the text but i will abstain.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, unemployment figures in may showed that the situation is still difficult and recovery is slow: the rate of inflation in the euro area was 11.1% and in italy 12.4%. we must make every effort to change this dramatic situation. we have voted today on a report which shows how green growth is a path to be fully exploited to reverse this situation. i voted in favour of this report, hoping that the eu will increasingly have a reformist spirit, focusing on the needs of its citizens, and combining work, business and the environment in a positive and pragmatic way.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's report on the green jobs initiative because, while it is sector-specific, it is part of a broader discourse which is to ask the commission to consider that the creation of new quality jobs in the eu can be achieved not only by increasing flexibility and precariousness but above all by protecting workers and decent work. the eu is facing a fundamental problem, common to many member states, of declining purchasing power of workers, which can be alleviated by raising wages or, as the s&d group has long argued, by creating a guaranteed minimum wage across the eu. the eu has been in a deep crisis for more than seven years. in many countries it has resulted in the loss of millions of jobs, in an increase in precariousness, in terms of social exclusion. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the introduction of a new type of safety device.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because employment opportunities must be created where there is room and scope for growth. the green economy is an opportunity that can create a virtuous circle that can stimulate growth. support for smes that invest in a green economy, creating jobs and ensuring sustainable welfare, must be a policy of all states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal. in its 2015 report, the european environment agency highlighted the inadequacy of some current measures to meet the objectives of protecting biodiversity, reducing fossil fuel use, combating climate change and preventing its impact on human health and the environment. this report underlines that a transition to sustainable societies and economies, including sustainable production and consumption patterns, has the potential to create new quality employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal on the initiative to harness the potential of a green economy to create new jobs. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment. eu member states, at the 2010 cancún conference, committed themselves to combating climate change and to taking concrete and targeted action, with particular regard to training and retraining for workers, innovative approaches and investment and incentives for businesses. the rapporteur's proposal to implement coherent policies, in line with sustainable growth, aimed at exploiting the potential of a green economy and, above all, for fairer social inclusion, is fully supported.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the green economy is to reduce the consumption of energy and raw materials, to the benefit of a renewed well-being of ecosystems. i voted in favour of the report by mr lambert because i think it is a good example of the benefits that a transition to green employment would bring to the labour market.
in writing. ‒ in adopting this report, we underlined the need to establish a coherent and long-term policy framework to stimulate a sustainable economy, capable of providing a predictable environment for investment in renewable energy. inconsistent policy and incentives have often been cited as a cause of disruption to progress and as factors limiting employment potential. the need for an industrial strategy to target and encourage investment in renewable energy industries that could create more jobs is undeniable. we therefore call on the commission and the member states to adopt ambitious, long-term and integrated regulatory, fiscal and financial frameworks for sustainable investment and to encourage innovation, thus fully exploiting the employment potential of these changes. the transition to sustainable societies and economies will offer the opportunity to create new green jobs and to make existing jobs environmentally friendly in almost all sectors and along the entire value chain, from research to manufacturing, distribution to care, in new high-tech environmentally friendly sectors such as renewable energy, and in traditional sectors such as industry, construction, agriculture and fisheries, as well as in services such as tourism, catering, transport and education.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the green economy, as it supports sustainable economic activities aimed at creating quality jobs. in particular, i stress the need for national and local governments to promote inclusive social dialogue to address the challenges of the transition to a green economy. it is also necessary to invest in the development of specific skills and to increase professional opportunities through training, research and skilled apprenticeship programmes, which help to alleviate the problem of youth unemployment. finally, i join parliament in calling for greater coordination between the commission and national ministries in order to introduce a long-term, uniform regulatory framework.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the green jobs initiative is of great importance in terms of a long-term vision where jobs are created that do not damage ecosystems. today we must take responsibility for the environment with a view to ensuring a better future for future generations, and thanks also to the continuing progress of technology, i think there are no longer any excuses for not acting in this dignified direction.
in writing. ‒ in july, the commission published the green sme action plan and the circular economy communication. in these texts, the commission aims to define the strategic framework conditions for supporting employment and job creation in the green economy. i believe that this is a sector which could play a leading role in the revival of the european economy. the report, on which i have decided to give a favourable opinion, was drawn up in response to the documents published by the commission. it focuses on a number of key issues, including energy efficiency, supply chain development and the role of small and medium-sized enterprises. with this vote in favour i think it is useful to point out that the transition to green work presents new challenges and opportunities for the current labour market and for regions such as sicily and sardinia which are able to rely on renewable energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report presented by mr lambert, which focuses on a number of key issues including environmental tax reform, energy and resource efficiency and the development of the supply chain, also highlighting the role of smes. the commission's initiative to promote green jobs was presented alongside the green action plan for smes, which was voted on at the may part-session. i have decided to vote in favour of this proposal because it aims to provide the means to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 plan by creating new opportunities for the labour market, with new jobs created and others replaced or redefined.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because, while i share the effort to create new jobs, i find that the ambiguity of the text raises the concern that jobs linked to the green economy are seen as substitutes for traditional jobs, rather than complementary.
in writing. ‒ this report is going in the right direction, which is why i strongly supported it. our aim to support the transition to a low-carbon and sustainable society must be combined with equally sustainable production and consumption models, which have the potential to create new quality jobs and to transform existing ones into green jobs in almost all sectors and along the entire value chain in order to help maintain europe's economic and industrial competitiveness. the development of new employment models would allow for the anticipation of future skills needs: i therefore believe that it is necessary for curricula and training courses to include programmes to raise awareness of environmental protection. we now have the opportunity, through the european fund for strategic investments, to promote investments that will act as a catalyst for a green transition. from the point of view of social policy, this fund can alleviate energy poverty by promoting energy-efficient housing and by encouraging job creation, particularly for young people.
in writing. ‒ the schlein report, which analyses the future challenges to be faced with third countries, aimed at improving tax transparency and cooperation in order to combat harmful tax competition affecting all member states, is acceptable and balanced, so i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is the union's task to support developing countries in creating efficient and sustainable tax systems that enable them to combat tax evasion and avoidance effectively.
in writing. - i vote for it. given the importance of better mobilisation of national resources and the problems faced by developing countries in combating tax evasion and avoidance, the report makes a number of recommendations. these include strengthening financial and technical assistance to developing countries and regional fiscal administration frameworks; the adoption of solutions to improve transparency and cooperation in the fight against tax fraud as a tool for the automatic exchange of information and the publication of country-by-country information, taking into account the needs and constraints of developing countries; the conduct of an impact assessment of tax policies on developing countries at eu and member state level; the maintenance of the taxing rights of countries of origin when negotiating tax treaties and the creation of an intergovernmental body in which developing countries can participate on equal terms in the overall reform of existing international tax rules.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on tax avoidance and tax evasion as challenges to governance, social protection and development in developing countries, which calls on the commission to present a communication to support developing countries in the fight against illicit financial flows and tax evasion. tax evasion and avoidance are among the main obstacles to the mobilisation of national revenues for development. the report therefore calls on the commission to step up financial and technical assistance to developing countries, to adopt solutions designed to improve transparency and cooperation in the fight against tax fraud and to publish country-by-country information, taking into account the needs and limitations of developing countries. the report also stressed the importance of the oecd base erosion and profit shifting (beps) action plan, which aims to redefine international tax rules, particularly for developing countries, which are heavily dependent on corporate tax revenues, but stressed that beps is too narrow in scope and too focused on the interests of rich countries.
in writing. ‒ the text of the report is ambitious and complements the report on financing for development. it calls for the impact assessments of fiscal policies on developing countries to be carried out in order to strengthen policy coherence for development, and for particular attention to be paid to gender issues, as the withdrawal of resources from these countries is reflected primarily on women. the importance of having complete and public information on the beneficial owners of corporate profits is also stressed, in order to avoid that behind complex networks there is theft of public funds, corruption, tax evasion or the financing of illicit trafficking or terrorism. the commission is also asked to continue and strengthen support for developing countries by providing financial and technical assistance and to ensure that good governance in tax matters is part of the policy dialogue with them. i voted for it with conviction.
in writing. ‒ every year, the income of developing countries is depleted by more than a billion dollars (about 10 times the total amount of economic aid received!) from illicit financial flows and tax evasion and avoidance, money laundering, corruption (including in agreements, often "tailor-made" and not very transparent, on natural resources, not only in the mining sector), and the use of shell companies. and, again, from unfair tax treaties, tax incentives and exemptions and a general "race to the bottom" in corporate tax rates, which has benefited foreign investors more than the countries concerned. the resolution calls for a series of concrete measures with a significant impact, such as country-by-country reporting by multinational companies, so that all relevant tax information is made public (controlled companies with their financial results, taxes paid, assets and number of employees, etc.); the automatic exchange of information between countries; the establishment of public registers of beneficial ownership of companies, trusts, foundations and other bodies, without restrictions on access; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on tax avoidance and tax evasion as challenges to governance, social protection and development in developing countries (dcs). in those countries, illicit financial flows are generally derived from tax evasion and avoidance activities; however, they are not equipped to combat such illegal activities. it is important for the pvs to obtain public revenues through taxation and taxation. at european level, the european investment bank (eib), the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) and the financial institutions of the member states provide important support to private enterprises in the ldcs. the commission is invited in this report to rapidly propose an ambitious action plan, in the form of a communication, to support developing countries fighting tax evasion and avoidance and to help them establish fair, balanced, efficient and transparent tax systems, taking into account the work undertaken by the oecd development assistance committee.
in writing. ‒ the benefits of effective and transparent taxation go beyond increasing the resources available to the state, creating a link between political institutions and public and private services that is necessary to achieve sound and good governance in developing countries. in addition to these objectives, the economic and financial crisis requires an increase in national income to cope with the growth of public debt. we are aware that developing countries face considerable administrative, political and technical constraints in the collection of taxes; the fight against corruption, tax evasion and avoidance is one of the main objectives of growth and international cooperation. the commission should take concrete and effective measures to support these countries and their regional structures in the field of tax administration in order to make tax policies fair, balanced, transparent and efficient. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i think everyone is aware of the situation in which many developing countries find themselves, which cannot even reach the minimum tax level necessary to finance their basic functioning and public services. many of these attract investment by offering tax incentives and exemptions that are neither transparent nor based on a proper cost-benefit analysis, thus resulting in unfavourable outcomes in terms of tax systems and causing harmful tax competition. it is therefore necessary, and that is why i voted in favour of this report, to adopt urgently concrete and effective measures to support the pvs in the fight against tax evasion and avoidance and in the development of fair, balanced, efficient and transparent tax policies. the judicial system and anti-corruption agencies in these countries should also be strengthened. in addition, in view of foreign investments, a database should be established containing all easily searchable information concerning the beneficial ownership of companies, trusts and other institutions in order to prevent other shell companies and similar legal entities from being used for money laundering, the financing of illicit or terrorist activities, the concealment of the identity of corrupt individuals or the concealment of public funds and profits from illicit transactions and illegal tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on tax avoidance and evasion as challenges in developing countries, because the adoption of this report is of strategic importance in view of the international conference on financing for development to be held next week in addis ababa, in which europe will have to play a leading role. official development assistance (oda) will have to be used more effectively and transparently. the effective mobilisation of domestic resources, which continue to be the main source of financing for developing countries, and the strengthening of national tax systems should be the focus of the conference's discussion. the availability of resources will then need to be accompanied by more efficient and fair tax systems, in order to help overcome dependence on foreign aid in the long term, reduce inequalities, eradicate poverty and consolidate good governance in the tax sector. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in accordance with the union's macro-financial assistance programmes.
in writing. ‒ the report on tax avoidance and evasion addresses the main challenges in developing countries for governance, social protection and development. a new strategy for these countries must be designed to overcome their dependence on external aid in the long term, and therefore efficient and fair tax systems must be developed. these measures are aimed at promoting good governance and consolidating the state. in addition, it is necessary to avoid that certain measures aimed at increasing the mobility of capital end up as incentives to resort to tax havens. in this context, it is important that transparency measures in the public administration are increased, reducing the level of corruption. in fact, in these countries, the share of income in relation to gdp remains low. the report contains a number of interesting proposals to counter these practices, such as the launch of procedures for access to sensitive information such as that concerning the beneficial ownership of the company and the trust funds. corrupt individuals could hide behind the embezzlement of public funds or the profits from illicit trade. i therefore vote in favour of this text, with the conviction that it will help to build a virtuous path on these issues in the developing countries.
in writing. taking into account the importance of better mobilisation of national resources and the problems faced by developing countries in combating tax evasion and avoidance, parliament presented this report in view of the range of existing international initiatives to reform the global tax system and, above all, the conference on financing for development to be held in addis ababa. the measures proposed include the strengthening of financial and technical assistance to developing countries and the regional fiscal administration frameworks; the creation of a genuine intergovernmental body in which developing countries can participate on an equal footing in the overall reform of the current international tax rules. i believe it is essential to ensure that the collection of national taxes is more predictable, stable and solid, and that all members of society, citizens and businesses, pay according to their means, so i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the report as i share the need to help developing countries with tax measures such as strengthening financial and technical assistance to regional tax administration frameworks, adopting solutions to improve transparency and cooperation in the fight against tax fraud, an automatic exchange of information tool and the publication of information.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on 'tax avoidance and evasion as challenges to governance, social protection and development in developing countries' because the european parliament intends to add to its position on development finance a clear position on these issues, in view of the third conference on financing for development on the agenda for 13-16 july 2015 in addis ababa. at the meeting, global donors, including the european union, will be invited to discuss financing for development in the coming years, with a view to adopting a more robust and inclusive but also realistic financial framework for achieving the sustainable development goals (sdgs), negotiations for which will begin in september. official development assistance is still an important pillar of the budgets of many developing countries (ldcs). i therefore supported this report which calls on the ec to present a new action plan to support the developing countries in the fight against illicit financial flows and tax evasion, with a view to the establishment of sound tax systems, the call for greater commitment to technical assistance in addition to financial assistance and, finally, the inclusion of good governance in tax matters in the dialogue with the developing countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the addis ababa conference next week is an important event from which everyone expects effective responses and the definition of a serious and at the same time ambitious policy line for financing development. it is useless to define new sustainable development goals without a real agreement and a strategy on the resources that the community will put in place to achieve them. the countries involved cannot be excluded from this process, so it is clear that much needs to be done through the so-called 'mobilisation of internal resources'. it is the developing countries themselves who need to improve their national institutions and tax systems. we cannot deny, however, that these processes are hampered by illicit financing and transfers by multinationals. europe must play a role, it must stand with the countries it helps and have a voice within the international community to carry out a global and coordinated process against illicit financial flows, which are not only targeted at developing countries.
in writing. ‒ efficient and fair tax systems are essential to eradicate poverty, tackle inequalities, promote good governance and consolidate the rule of law, and overcome long-term dependence on foreign aid. that is the spirit of the report adopted today. we call on the commission to present as soon as possible a strategy to support developing countries in their fight against tax evasion and avoidance and to help them establish fair, balanced, efficient and transparent tax systems. it is essential for us that multinational companies operating in the pvs publish all relevant tax information, including financial results and taxes charged to them. we have also achieved a good result with the call for the creation of an intergovernmental body to ensure that developing countries participate on an equal footing in the reform of the global tax system.
in writing. i have voted in favour of mrs schlein's report. illicit financial flows generally result from tax evasion and avoidance activities, such as transfer pricing abuse, which run counter to the principle that taxes should be paid where profits are generated. this proposal calls on the commission to rapidly propose an ambitious action plan, in the form of a communication, to support developing countries fighting tax evasion and avoidance and to help them establish fair, balanced, efficient and transparent tax systems, taking into account the work undertaken by the oecd development assistance committee.
in writing. ‒ votes in favour of the report on tax avoidance and evasion as challenges in developing countries. the proposal aims to support, through appropriate fiscal policies, such as reducing corporate tax rates and increasing tax incentives and exemptions, with the main objective of also attracting investors to promote economic growth, developing countries, to combat tax evasion and avoidance. the rapporteur's proposal to initiate concrete agreements to improve transparency and cooperation in the fight against tax fraud is fully supported.
in writing. ‒ this report calls on the european commission to implement concrete measures to support developing countries in their fight against tax evasion and avoidance. it also called for fair, balanced, efficient and transparent fiscal policies to be developed with a view to fostering sustainable and long-term administrative reforms in this group of countries. for all the reasons i have just given, i have decided to support the document signed by mrs schlein.
in writing. ‒ with the adoption of this report, we call on the commission to swiftly propose an ambitious action plan to support developing countries fighting tax evasion and avoidance and to help them establish fair and balanced tax systems. we are convinced that only efficient and transparent tax systems can eliminate poverty, combat inequalities, promote good governance and consolidate the state. we have always supported the need for the eu to take a leading role in combating tax havens, tax fraud and tax evasion by setting a good example, cooperating with developing countries to counter the aggressive tax avoidance practices of certain transnational corporations. we hope that by the end of 2015 it will be possible to draw up a blacklist of tax havens and countries, including those located in the eu, which distort competition by granting more favourable tax conditions. finally, we stress the urgent need for both developing and developed countries to tax profits at the place where economic activities are carried out and to work towards a mandatory and automatic exchange of information between national tax authorities on a worldwide scale.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on the issue of tax avoidance and evasion in developing countries is of great importance as it aims to tackle the primary problems that prevent these countries from having stable growth. i hope that the european union can make a major contribution to supporting the emergence of new practices which can significantly improve the present situation.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support, by voting in favour, this report which aims to analyse the challenges faced by developing countries in terms of taxation and tax governance issues, and the need for greater transparency and effectiveness in national and international tax systems. i believe that in the context of the discussions that should lead to a comprehensive agreement on the post-2015 development agenda, the fight against illicit financial flows in developing countries should receive greater attention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on tax evasion and avoidance as a challenge in developing countries. i agree with the rapporteur, mr schlein, on the whole, although i have doubts about the application of certain rules in the proposal, which have no legal basis in eu law.
in writing. ‒ 2015 is the year of development and various initiatives are taking place across the european union and in third countries to set new goals for sustainable development. all the ambitious objectives set at national, european and international level will only be achieved through adequate funding and a more efficient use of resources; it is therefore essential that parliament, too, should reaffirm in this report that fair taxation and the fight against tax evasion and avoidance are fundamental. illicit financial flows out of developing countries are estimated by some to be worth about $1 trillion a year. if confirmed, these figures are worrying because they are resources that are being diverted from essential services for many citizens. the adoption of this report is a first step towards supporting concrete initiatives. we call for an action plan to support developing countries in creating more robust and fair tax systems, providing financial and technical assistance, which is still insufficient, and ensuring that developing countries participate on an equal footing in the reform of the global tax system. we must reiterate that we are at the forefront of the fight against evasion, otherwise we will not be able to keep our commitment to eliminate poverty and inequality.
in writing. ‒ the pietikäinen report, which analyses resource efficiency in the context of a transition to a circular economy, is unbalanced and i believe that there are critical aspects in many of its crucial steps, which is why i did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the circular economy is the new economic model that europe must commit to in the coming years. its implementation presents obstacles and challenges, but they must be met with confidence and determination if a new system is to be established that will benefit everyone. the european commission and the ellen macarthur foundation estimate that over 2 million new jobs could be created, and that businesses could save between €250 and €465 billion a year. moreover, human health, ecosystems and biodiversity would benefit. the report under consideration sets ambitious targets such as increasing resource efficiency (30% more by 2030) and higher targets for waste recycling (70% of municipal solid waste and 80% of packaging materials). as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i wholeheartedly support the text we voted on today, which is a first step in this complex but essential transition process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the circular economy because i believe that the work done is going in the right direction, although important amendments concerning, for example, the ban on incineration and the introduction of mandatory national waste management plans were not passed in the committee on the environment (envi). the text as a whole represents an ambitious package and a good starting point for the european commission to provide a serious legislative proposal which will allow, in the long term, the adoption of an alternative economic model to the utilitarian one. the final text adopted by parliament calls unequivocally on the european commission to come forward with a proposal that can replace the current development model of unlimited growth, while knowing that resources are limited, and that can start the process of transition to a circular economy, based on sustainable consumption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the transformation of our economic system into a circular economy system would bring enormous benefits to the union in terms of both the environment and the economy and employment, allowing for a significant reduction in co2 emissions and the creation of a large number of new jobs.
in writing. ‒ raising the targets in existing waste treatment directives is useful to accelerate the transition to the circular economy model. in the circular economy, there is no waste: waste is no longer just waste, it becomes a resource. raw materials are no longer extracted, used once and thrown away. with the circular economy, waste disappears through reuse, repair and recycling applied at every stage of the commercial chain. extending the productive use of materials, reusing them and increasing their efficiency is useful not only to tackle waste management issues from a non-emergency perspective, but also to strengthen the eu's competitiveness on the world stage. the impact of this approach on the european real economy is positive because research and innovation, which are key to the success of the plan, are closely linked to green economy investments on the ground: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work.
in writing. - i vote against it. the concept of circular economy, like others of its kind (such as cradle-to-cradle, industrial ecology and natural capitalism), suggests the development, through innovation, of industrial-scale strategies aimed at a complete decoupling between physical growth in throughput and non-physical (financial) growth in gdp (so-called 'green' or 'sustainable' growth). the mainstream of the sustainable development movement is based on the deep conviction that, with the right technological innovations, economic growth and environmental protection can be complementary rather than in conflict; however, this view ignores, misrepresents or underestimates the biophysical limits to human production and consumption that are drawn by system dynamics and thermodynamics. finally, it should be noted that a constant process of resource efficiency through innovation has been underway since at least the early modern period, but that this relative decoupling has not prevented the overall growth in the production and consumption of raw materials from being neutralised; there is a risk that a sharp increase in relative decoupling could, by virtue of the jevons paradox, lead instead to an intensification of the exploitation of raw materials, made cheaper by the acceleration of capital movements brought about by the reduction in the unit cost of production obtained through more efficient technologies.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resource efficiency report. the european parliament has adopted the text as a step towards changing the economic model to which we are accustomed, namely the 'take, produce and throw away' model. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for fundamental rights (fra) is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. the commission has announced a proposal for a review of waste legislation. the commission must be obliged to present it by 2015, including clear and unambiguous definitions, the development of waste prevention measures, the application of the 'pay as you throw' principle and the strict limitation of incinerators. i hope that the commission will be able to take these inputs and be able to push member states towards a paradigm shift towards an economic system where the materials and energy used to manufacture products retain their value for as long as possible, thereby reducing waste and resource use and at the same time creating economic opportunities and competitive advantages on a sustainable basis.
in writing. ‒ the report of the honourable member indicates to the commission what actions should be included in the proposal that the commission is preparing on the circular economy and the revision of european waste legislation. the own-initiative report is ambitious and highlights that the unsustainable use of resources is causing immense environmental damage and at the same time represents a major economic risk. a more efficient use of resources is therefore absolutely necessary. it could also be a significant source of employment in europe. i voted for it with conviction.
in writing. ‒ economic development based on the linear growth model is no longer sustainable or viable, not only because of the scarcity of available raw materials but also because of the amount of waste that this type of 'take, produce, use and throw away' system has generated. a reversal of the trend is therefore inevitable, and a new process is needed which considers waste as a resource to be fed back into the production cycle. there are about 600 million tonnes of waste in europe with the potential for reuse, and if we want to build an economic system based on sustainable growth and efficient use of resources, we must encourage the reuse and recycling of products. the transition to a circular economy will require a redesign of a new production model that will provide a strong impetus not only in terms of technology, but also in terms of societal organisation, financing methods and policies. new targets and objectives for waste recycling should therefore be identified. we therefore hope that the commission will soon present an ambitious package of circular economy measures needed to stimulate growth and protect the environment. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the strategic own-initiative report on the circular economy. the text under consideration contains a number of proposals aimed at ensuring a more efficient use of resources and minimising the volume of waste. the main points are: (1) binding 30% targets and the creation of indicators for resource efficiency; (2) the revision of the ecodesign directive; the commission has also proposed a tax on landfills and incinerators.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it appropriately encourages a more efficient use of resources and contains sound proposals to steer the economy towards the necessary reduction in the volume of waste. given that europe still imports most of its energy from third countries, i believe that in order to move towards greater energy independence we need to promote a more efficient use of resources. this process will lead to greater environmental, social and economic benefits. if we are to reverse the trend towards unsustainable waste and avoid irreversible damage to the environment, it will be important to identify the weaknesses in our production system and to find appropriate solutions. as argued in the report, investing in the circular economy is not economically counterproductive but rather, in the long term, such investments will lead to increased savings coupled with the potential to reduce unemployment levels and create new business opportunities. european companies will therefore increase their competitiveness, their profits and will be the linchpin of the process leading to the circular economy. it will therefore be important to establish common rules and effective implementation mechanisms so as to ensure a transition towards a more sustainable european economy in all its member countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mrs pietikäinen's report, which calls attention to the need to tackle the global challenge of resource depletion, and the eu as we know is highly dependent on imported resources, more than any other region in the world. unfortunately, unsustainable use of resources brings with it serious risks such as climate change, desertification, deforestation and biodiversity loss. to remedy this, a policy framework to support resource efficiency combined with ambitious environmental targets and strict rules is needed. first of all, it is essential: stop the continuous extraction of raw materials, such as water, which is used not only during the production cycle but also as a public good; increasing the life cycle of products, their durability, reusability and recyclability; review waste legislation, seeking to tackle the illegal export of post-consumer waste and formulating clear collection and recycling targets; developing a strategic framework on resource efficiency in buildings as well as indicators, standards, methods and quality requirements for spatial and urban planning; the commission has also set up a network of experts to help the member states to develop their environmental policies.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because a more efficient use of resources would reduce resource dependency and bring environmental and economic savings through the creation of new green and local jobs. i am glad that parliament has accepted the amendments proposed by m5s to eliminate direct and indirect subsidies to fossil fuels and to eliminate all environmentally harmful subsidies. the resolution calls on member states to increase resource efficiency by 30% by 2030, to fully implement the cascade of resource use and sustainable sourcing, to fully implement the polluter pays principle and producer responsibility, to use renewable energy and a waste hierarchy, and to apply taxes for landfilling and waste incineration. as regards waste, i regret that the resolution does not include a general ban on incineration and landfilling, despite the fact that incineration is clearly a linear economic practice. but overall the text is commendable and i could only vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this report, which is simply too far removed from reality and proposes an unsustainable economic and development model.
in writing. ‒ i shared the approach of ms pietikäinen's report on resource efficiency and the transition to a circular economy because i believe that the circular economy is one of the key challenges of the future and an urgent one for the eu and all member states. europe continues to produce and waste an enormous amount of waste, causing the well-known environmental and waste disposal problems: some of this waste must be reusable. the circular economy principle aims to turn waste into raw materials for other businesses, and as such it needs to be adequately supported. in addition, the circular economy helps to create jobs and develop industries active in recycling and reuse, while ensuring a less consumer-driven approach. i therefore share the call on the european commission to come forward with legislative proposals not only in the field of waste but also in other key areas of the circular economy such as food waste, eco-products, manufacturing and packaging, promoting the reuse and recyclability of products that are consumed. finally, they agree on the objectives of reducing municipal solid waste and recycled packaging and on the call to increase european resource efficiency by 30% by 2020.
in writing. ‒ by adopting this report, we wanted to send a very important political message: the continued unsustainable use of resources is causing irreparable environmental damage and poses a serious economic risk to the planet. the ecological implications are multiple and in many cases irreversible: the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the criteria for the selection of the beneficiary countries. to avoid such changes in our biosphere, we need to use fewer resources. we can and must improve competitiveness, reindustrialise europe and raise our standard of living by decoupling economic growth from resource use. europe depends on imported resources more than any other region in the world. improving resource efficiency would benefit our economy and our security. a more efficient use of resources would help to reduce resource dependency, bring cost savings and also encourage the creation of new business and jobs in europe.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the transition to a circular economy is the best choice for the future of europe and beyond, and i hope that this important process in which we are involved will serve as an example for all other regions of the world. considering that the circular economy makes the product a resource for someone else at any stage of its "life", it will also be the starting point for the creation of new jobs and will certainly provide the opportunity to create new sustainable business models.
in writing. ‒ in july 2014, the european commission presented the 'circular economy package', which includes the communication 'towards a circular economy: a zero waste agenda for europe'. this is certainly an important legislative proposal which could have considerable implications not only in terms of environmental protection but also in economic terms. however, the presence of some controversial aspects, such as binding targets considered unrealistic and the introduction of bans and taxes which i believe could have a very negative impact on smes, led me not to support the rapporteur's proposal. in particular, i believe that the proposal does not take due account of certain aspects of full respect for the principle of subsidiarity, as some issues relating to the proper management of waste should, in my view, be left to the member states to decide.
in writing. ‒ the report 'resource efficiency: transition to a circular economy' is one of the most controversial items on the agenda for the july session. in july last year, the european commission presented the 'circular economy package', which the european parliament decided to follow up with an own-initiative report. but the ec has now withdrawn its proposal, promising to present a better one by the end of 2015 and a public consultation before the end of august. the report presented by mr pietikäinen presents several controversial points, including the proposal to introduce binding targets for resource efficiency and waste reduction, new legislation for ecodesign and measures to break the link between growth and use of natural resources. the report left many doubts and for that reason, in line with the majority of my group, the epp, i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because, while i share the need for greater protection of the environment, i consider the text to be too unbalanced in that it does not take the needs of workers and businesses into account.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote, the european parliament calls on the commission to review european directives and standards on eco-design, waste management, the building sector and sustainable food to promote a more efficient use of resources. we have a responsibility to future generations to use resources in a more sustainable way by, for example, encouraging recycling and recovery of materials and reducing the number of landfills and marine litter. however, we must avoid the imposition of new environmental protection standards which would lead to additional costs and administrative burdens, undermining the competitiveness of our production system. i have therefore decided to abstain from the final vote.
in writing. finally, some good news: the draft report on the circular economy was adopted. the report includes some very important points for us from m5s: the need for a tax framework in line with the polluter pays principle is emphasised and clear rules on the application of extended producer responsibility (large companies are responsible for the disposal of the objects they produce) are called for. the commission is also asked to include in its proposal for a revision of waste legislation several important points, including an increase in the recycling rate of at least 70% of municipal solid waste, binding reduction targets for municipal, commercial and industrial waste and a strict limitation of incinerators. a very important point, which has remained in the report and was put forward in the envi committee by our spokesman mr pedicini, is that the european commission should phase out direct and indirect harmful subsidies to fossil fuels. the amendment, proposed by us from the five star movement together with the greens, to introduce targets for the reuse of materials in order to prevent and reduce waste generation, was rejected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on 'resource efficiency: transition to a circular economy'. i believe that the union must maintain its leadership in promoting the circular economy by developing innovative models for the reuse, repair, recycling and renewal of products and goods already in circulation. it is crucial today to maximise resource efficiency while minimising the amount of waste produced. i am particularly in favour of binding targets for waste reduction by 2025 at local government, commercial and industrial levels.
in writing. ‒ i welcome today's vote, as it is crucial that the commission adopts a package of legislative initiatives on the circular economy as soon as possible. we must commit ourselves to reversing this trend as soon as possible through a paradigm shift from a linear to a circular economy. the implementation of a circular economy model is responding to key policy challenges in the eu such as job creation, innovation, a change in industrial policy and the smart use of resources. i would like to stress, finally, that our group has played a key role in achieving this important result.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report by which parliament tells the european commission what to include in the legislative proposal on the circular economy and the revision of european waste legislation. my favourable position is justified by the fact that the unsustainable use of resources is causing damage to the environment and the ecosystem and also represents an economic risk. the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to use its own resources more efficiently, in order to reduce dependence on raw materials and to save on material costs. this policy would also create new business and jobs in europe. our delegation tabled several amendments - many of which have been accepted - which were aimed at encouraging the introduction of the certificate of origin; the application of reduced or eliminated vat to recycled and reclaimed products; a separate objective on the reuse of materials to prevent and reduce waste generation; the prohibition of incineration; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. environmental declarations for construction products and demolition methods allowing materials to be recovered for reuse or recycling and, finally, to set a target for reuse at european level.
in writing. ‒ the herranz garcía report analyses the legislation on maximum levels of radioactivity, which are permissible for foodstuffs, food and animals following a nuclear accident. i think it is inconceivable that this text should propose to maintain the same levels as those proposed in 1989, and that is why i did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that it is important for the health of european citizens to set maximum permissible levels of radioactivity in food, given that the high harmfulness of radioactive products has been demonstrated.
in writing. ‒ the dangers of radioactive contamination cannot be ignored. after the chernobyl disaster, the long-term effects of radioactive pollution became known to all. there are numerous and extensive studies demonstrating the serious effects on humans, animals, plants and the environment in general. it is in the interest of the european union to prevent the risk of contamination and to have high safety standards in order to ensure the health of citizens and the quality of agri-food products intended for trade and consumption in the territory of the union.
in writing. - i vote against it. the proposal is unacceptable given the proposed limits of radioactivity, which have been the same since 1989.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation laying down maximum permitted levels of radioactivity for food and feed following a nuclear accident or any other case of radioactive emergency. as the report points out, it is absolutely essential that the european union has up-to-date legal instruments containing decision-making procedures capable of dealing with emergency situations such as those experienced after the chernobyl and fukushima accidents. the use of implementing acts to respond to nuclear accidents or other types of radioactive emergencies is the most appropriate way to adequately address this need. i therefore believe that in cases of extreme urgency it should be possible to adopt an implementing act without prior examination. in addition, parliament should reserve the right to co-decide on the modification of maximum permitted levels of radioactivity for food and feed following a nuclear accident or any other case of radioactive emergency, should it be necessary to review them in the light of new scientific knowledge.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal states that the maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination established in 1987 and to be applied following a nuclear accident or any other case of radioactive emergency which may result in significant contamination of food and feed are not yet in line with the most recent scientific advice available at international level. it therefore lays down the procedures for adopting them. if adopted as proposed by the commission, the regulation could lead to binding rules for all member states, aimed at preventing food and feed products from being placed on the eu market if they do not comply with the established maximum levels of radioactivity. the main problem, of course, is the scientific method of determining these limits, and we intend to monitor the way in which these limits are set.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation laying down maximum permitted levels of radioactivity in food and feed following a nuclear accident or any other case of radioactive emergency. it is desirable that the eu has up-to-date legal instruments with agile decision-making procedures adapted to all situations in order to deal with situations such as those experienced after the chernobyl and fukushima accidents. the proposal sets out in its annexes the maximum permissible levels in the event of a radioactive accident or emergency, which were confirmed in 2012 by the group of experts established by article 31 of the euratom treaty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe it is essential that the european union takes the necessary measures to deal with the risks of contamination following a nuclear accident. as has been shown, prolonged consumption of food products with high levels of radioactivity has extremely harmful consequences on the cells of the human body. we must therefore strive to increase food security within the union in order to prevent radioactive contamination from increasing. the european parliament therefore calls for the establishment of appropriate maximum permitted levels in the event of a radioactive accident or emergency. these levels were confirmed in 2012 by an expert group established by article 31 of the euratom treaty and were included in the european commission's 'publication radiation protection 105'. finally, it will be necessary not only to monitor products from the country affected by the accident but also to increase controls for neighbouring countries, which are also at risk of radioactive fallout on their own foodstuffs. while we hope that disasters like chernobyl and fukushima will not happen again, it is important that we do everything possible to prevent radioactive contamination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for the use of implementing acts to deal with critical situations arising from a nuclear accident or other type of radioactive emergency, and which calls for the need to act quickly, especially to protect consumers. the general objective is to establish rapid and effective cooperation between the institutions in the event of an emergency and to take account of developments in community law on food safety by laying down the conditions for importing food or feed from third countries affected by a nuclear emergency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation setting maximum permitted levels of radioactivity following a nuclear accident, as i share the need for up-to-date legal instruments and appropriate decision-making procedures to deal with such emergency situations. i think it is important to amend the legal basis of the regulation in order to give the european parliament the power of co-decision.
in writing. ‒ this regulation builds on a 2010 commission proposal to bring together three pieces of legislation on the permissible levels of radioactivity in food and feed. since they were adopted on the legal basis of the euratom treaty, the european parliament would have been involved only for consultation. in 2011, however, the parliamentary assembly in plenary decided to request the amendment of the legal basis, citing the health protection nature of the measure on the basis of which the amendments must be made by a joint decision between the council and parliament. this gives us members the power to intervene on the merits of the proposals and thus to make support for the initiative conditional on the transposition of specific requests. for these reasons we supported the amendment of the legal basis but did not confirm our vote for the final measure, since the commission, with the support of the major political groups, has managed to keep unchanged the maximum permitted levels of radioactivity in food and feed, which were set back in 1987 and are far higher than those set by the fao and in force in the usa.
in writing. ‒ i do not support this report because the proposal is unacceptable given the proposed limits on radioactivity: the same as in 1989, but with very different environmental conditions to today in 2015.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mrs herranz garcia setting maximum levels of radioactive contamination of food and feed intended for the european market following a nuclear accident. it is necessary to establish a system enabling the union, in the event of a nuclear accident or other radiological emergency which may result in significant radioactive contamination of food and feed, to set maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination in order to ensure a high level of health protection.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the recent nuclear disaster at fukushima in japan, i believe it is important to consider the potential for radioactive contamination of food and feed. the establishment of a limit level and the periodic review of that level are essential.
in writing. ‒ when it comes to preventing possible nuclear disasters, the attention of legislators must be maximal. i believe that the european union must commit itself to ensuring the highest standards of safety for citizens and the environment. the proposed council regulation sets maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of food and feed which may be placed on the market in the european union following a nuclear accident or any other case of radioactive emergency. the proposal replaces regulation (euratom) no 3954/87, which was introduced in 1987 following the chernobyl disaster and has been amended since, although the maximum permitted levels remain unchanged. in addition to agreeing with the nature of the proposals put forward by the council, i particularly agree with the intention of the report to call for a change in the legal basis for the articles on public health and the internal market in the treaty of lisbon. this will ensure the full participation of parliament as a co-legislator, under the ordinary legislative procedure and not just as an advisory body.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report adopted by the committee on the environment on maximum permitted levels of radioactivity following a nuclear accident. the proposal replaces the 1987 regulation adopted after the chernobyl nuclear disaster and lays down maximum levels of radioactive contamination of food and feed intended for the european market following a nuclear accident. the eu's interest in and attention to the issue of the safety of its citizens is clearly seen in this context, and i therefore fully support the text presented.
in writing. ‒ the resolution analyses the building of a capital markets union, although at first reading the text seems to move in the direction of identifying the prospects so that the phenomena that contributed to the very serious economic crisis are not repeated in the context of the capital market, on a more critical reading i believe that the entire text is extremely deficient and biased. firstly, the fundamental problem of the crisis, namely the single currency and the costs it represents for the member states of the union, is not mentioned, and the juncker plan is also mentioned, which, as i have said on several occasions, is nothing but a political marketing operation which i have already strongly opposed, not to mention the fact that many references are made to the needs of smes, but it is deliberately omitted to mention that it is the banks that bear a great deal of responsibility for the failure of many companies that have been prevented from accessing credit. for all these reasons i voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the green paper 'building a capital markets union' adopted in february this year sets out the first part of a strategy that the union will pursue in the coming years. this can and must be consistent with the commitment made in the juncker plan for investment. we are waiting for the commission's action plan in september, and today this resolution which i support has the merit of highlighting the centrality of action in this area. the last decades have seen an increase in the size of the financial sector at global and european level. in the face of this growth, investment in the real economy has declined, with a significant decline particularly during the economic crisis. a crisis that has weakened financial integration across the continent by segmenting and dividing the sector on the basis of fiscal and regulatory barriers. the capital markets union project aims to address these critical issues. through greater integration and harmonisation of markets, the aim is to free up all those unused resources in the system, trying to channel them into the service of the real economy. in addition, effective diversification of funding channels will be important to stimulate and strengthen the size of small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the creation of a capital markets union, in addition to bringing enormous economic benefits, also represents a further step towards the integration of the european continent.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the econ resolution on the capital markets union. the text, which is very technical, seems to indicate that there are prospects for avoiding a repetition of certain phenomena in the capital market which contributed to the very serious economic crisis. the document is seriously flawed in that it does not mention the most important issue, namely the single currency and the costs it represents for the member states of the union. the report also mentions as important the 'reforms' that member states should undertake to reassure markets. the text is complemented by the agreement reached on the so-called 'juncker plan' (a mere political marketing operation which we voted against with conviction). the report makes many references to the needs of smes, but it fails to mention that it is the banks that bear a great deal of responsibility for the failure of many companies that have been prevented from accessing credit. finally, we are not convinced by some calls which are too general to allow for the standardization of regulations in the sector, or indeed a genuine single market for capital.
in writing. ‒ the juncker commission's strategic priorities are to encourage investment to create new jobs and strengthen competitiveness in europe. the creation of a capital markets union would lead to a reduction in the cost of capital and a more efficient allocation of capital, which are essential for the growth of enterprises, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, and for job creation. reducing the fragmentation of the capital market would also ensure better access to capital for companies and would contribute to strengthening investor protection. the resolution on the construction of a capital markets union highlighted these elements and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motions for resolutions on the european capital union. on 18 february 2015, the commission adopted the green paper entitled 'building a capital markets union'. the committee therefore calls for a european approach to the construction of a capital markets union, focusing on the functioning of capital markets, and ensuring favourable economic and regulatory conditions for smes.
in writing. ‒ for many decades italy has suffered the damage of a relational capitalism that privileged personal relationships over merit. we are not talking about the importance of the word given and the handshake, but about favourable treatment of friends of friends, while no one, however good and endowed with good ideas, had to succumb. a capital markets union, a priority for commissioner hill, would be a great opportunity to increase competition in the financial sector, to the benefit of both businesses and consumers, and above all by improving the efficiency of the system itself, with benefits also for the shareholders of banks (which in italy, through the foundations, are ultimately the public bodies to which we all pay taxes). this architecture, as described in the resolution, has my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the creation of a capital markets union to support growth and financial stability. the european union must first of all solve the problem of access to credit and the lack of investment. unfortunately, most investors have no idea of the vast potential that european smes can offer. therefore, it is necessary to create a tool that can collect and circulate information, thus creating a network linking entrepreneurs, smes and investors. it is also essential to work towards increasing the diversification of sources of finance and investment in european enterprises, while maintaining its attractiveness to international investors and avoiding unnecessary divergences and duplication of legislation.
in writing. ‒ the capital markets union represents a major challenge for both the european institutions and market players in the european context. the aim of this project is to develop a european capital market which is complementary to the banking market. long-term financing therefore represents an opportunity for growth and job creation, which is crucial for a europe that has only emerged from the economic and financial crisis that gripped it in the last year. moreover, these investments produce far-reaching benefits throughout society, with important economic, social and environmental consequences, as opposed to mere short-term speculation. the emphasis was also placed on small and mediumsized enterprises, the real engine of our continent. the entry of institutional investors into the capital market has therefore been encouraged, who now hold a large amount of savings but have great difficulty in participating. i am voting in favour of this proposal because it reduces the funding gap between countries by making it easier to pass on the monetary policies of the european central bank. finally, greater diversification of sources of finance will reduce idiosyncratic risks within europe.
in writing. ‒ the capital markets union is a series of initiatives to develop non-bank lending and capital market financing in europe. the guidelines for the creation of the cmu are contained in the green paper of the same name. the commission believes that the creation of a capital markets union would solve issues such as the difficulty of creating new jobs in the face of a lack of credit, europe's over-reliance on banks and the shortage of credit for smes. i voted against this resolution because i cannot accept that europe should think that it can solve the crisis it has descended into by the same practice that caused it, namely excessive financialization. it is absurd to think that the way to restart the economy is to start with finance instead of with the fabric of small and mediumsized enterprises and then with the citizens, instead of thinking of creating a system of credit banks, the aim is, once again, to satisfy the demands, and therefore the interests, of the big ones.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the resolution on the capital markets union. the report is a tribute to the eu's economic policy, which in my view is a failure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft capital markets union (cmu) because i believe that we are facing an important as well as symbolic act, with which the ep is building and revealing an embryo of a position on the future cmu. the public consultation of stakeholders has now concluded and the european commission will unveil its action plan, expected this autumn. i personally hope that the ec will take due account of the suggestions coming from the real economy and market players, because i believe that the cmu is a fundamental part of the eu's financial architecture, particularly important for the eurozone to create the conditions for further strengthening. i am convinced that the conditions must be created for capital to flow where it is needed and for access to credit to be facilitated as part of a more comprehensive economic strategy, in favour of economic growth, employment and financial market stability. the cmu will be able to foster the internalisation of smes, which form the fabric of the economy in the various european countries, and if properly designed and balanced, will be able to foster a diversification of the sources of finance for smes, which have been dependent on the banking sector, and foster long-term investment, which the eu needs to lay a solid foundation for sustainable growth.
in writing. i supported the motion. insufficient regulation and supervision of capital markets was one of the main reasons for the outbreak of the financial crisis. investment in the real economy in europe has declined relatively over several decades, despite the fact that the size of the european and global financial sectors has increased significantly over the same period. the report states that the cmu should follow a step-by-step approach and that its priorities should be threefold: first, to encourage a more efficient allocation of savings, to allow for greater risk mitigation through the creation of stronger cross-border markets and to ensure that there is an effective complementary channel for financing the real economy.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the creation of capital markets can make a significant contribution to the economic and financial stability of eu member states and prevent speculation which can create difficulties for national governments. this will lead to the eu acting more uniformly and in a timely manner in cases of market imbalances.
in writing. ‒ i am in line with the ppe group in favour of building a capital markets union, which is why i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. the union i want to support is the one which allows for greater financing opportunities, especially for smes. i therefore agree with mr balz when he says that we must make sure that smes can actually benefit from this union, that we must improve the investment climate in europe.
in writing. ‒ the resolution adopted today is the european parliament's first reaction to the commission's green paper on the creation of a capital markets union. i decided to vote in favour of the text because i believe that a genuine european approach is needed to identify and remove obstacles to crossborder investment within the eu and thus stimulate growth in the 28 member states. i therefore hope that the action plan which will be outlined by the commission following the public consultation will aim at maximising the benefits of a single capital market, improving access to finance for all businesses and especially smes and strengthening the competitiveness of the european union by creating a solid basis for financial stability.
in writing. the capital markets union (cmu) aims to intensify the financialisation of the economic system through greater standardisation of financial products and greater use of financial instruments - such as securitisations - which were at the root of the 2008 crisis, replacing the traditional banking channel. such standardisation will necessarily be to the detriment of the real economy and smes, which, on the contrary, need solutions which respect their specificities and which facilitate their business by reducing the bureaucratic and administrative burdens on them. that is why we rejected the motion for a resolution in strasbourg in favour of the introduction of the cmu. the development of finance has no positive correlation with economic growth. the result would be a financial system that is more exposed to systemic risks and lacks firewalls to deal with them. on the contrary, the return to growth requires solving the credit crunch, boosting aggregate demand and creating a favourable environment for public investment, especially in innovation. besides, the timing is premature. the cmu would enter into force when banking sector reforms such as the bsr and the regulation of shadow banking have not yet been finalised and, finally, the necessary consumer protection measures are not in place.
in writing. ‒ i do not share the positions taken in the resolution under vote, i do not think that the proposed measures are worthy of the purpose it seeks, and i do not share at all the persistent denial of a direct link between the mass landings off the coast of north africa and terrorism; i voted against this text for all these reasons.
in writing. ‒ the proposed measures are certainly not worthy of the purpose of the report. fighting terrorism with pnr certainly seems ridiculous, not to mention the constant references to the disconnect between islamic immigration and terrorism. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution on the european agenda on security. in recent years, threats to the internal security of the union have become more complex and difficult to predict and have shown that it is difficult for a single member state to be able to respond to them. the report therefore underlined that terrorism, radicalisation, crossborder organised crime and cybercrime are serious threats that require coordinated action at european level. in responding to these challenges, it is important to seek the right balance between prevention policies and repressive measures. in addition, security measures should always be implemented in accordance with the principles of the rule of law and the protection of fundamental rights, such as the right to privacy and data protection, freedom of expression and association and due process. in short, the european security agenda must not restrict the rights and freedoms of the european model.
in writing. ‒ the agenda follows the internal security strategy and i voted in favour of the libe report on this. the agenda focuses on the three pillars of organised crime, terrorism and cybercrime, and the report on the agenda provides for a fair balance between the need for security and the need to safeguard rights and freedoms. the emphasis is on prevention without going beyond repressive measures and, in particular, the usefulness of encrypted data for non-criminal purposes is affirmed and therefore the need for citizens to continue to make use of this tool. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain on the motion for a resolution on the european agenda on security. on 28 april 2015, the commission adopted a communication setting out the key safety priorities and principles for the period 2015-2020. the report asks the commission and the council to indicate how they intend to implement the agenda, how they plan to cooperate with parliament and whether they have received assessments from the agencies concerned on the human and financial resources needed. however, the ppe group considered the content of the report in question to be insufficient and not in line with its prerogatives.
in writing. ‒ of the two motions for resolutions on the agenda, only one was adopted. the one i supported because i thought it would be more effective, given the delicate subject we are dealing with, did not find the support of the majority. threats to the internal security of the union are becoming increasingly complex, well-designed, asymmetrical, unpredictable and uncontrollable. the member states alone cannot handle these continuing attacks, much less fight them. the response must not only be consistent, rapid and effective, but also take account of the multi-level and multi-state nature of these terrorist groups. as regards terrorism, the prevention of radicalisation needs to be stepped up through dialogue with local communities and civil society at national level, in order to block extremist ideologies. in the light of the recent terrorist attacks in brussels, paris, copenhagen and saint-quentin-fallavier, it is urgent to focus on a number of priorities: enhance eu border security, improve internet reporting capabilities, combat illicit arms trafficking and enhance information exchange and operational cooperation between national law enforcement and intelligence services. other issues on which we are trying to find concrete solutions are cybercrime, cyber-enhanced crime and organised crime.
in writing. ‒ we are well aware that threats to the internal security of the european union are becoming increasingly complex, international, fast-changing and difficult to predict. terrorism, radicalisation, crossborder organised crime and cybercrime are just some of the challenges facing the eu, which must act in a timely, coordinated and flexible manner. i agree with the european agenda on security for 2015-2020 which has set out some very good starting objectives, firstly by helping member states to further develop mutual trust and to improve the exchange of information and good practice, as well as the inclusion of very strong human rights clauses in cooperation agreements and the safeguarding of the principle of the best interests of the child in all security legislation. i also agree with the cooperation between europol, eurojust and the future european public prosecutor's office to ensure greater democratic control, the application of the law and justice throughout the territory. i hope that the eu can achieve a good degree of autonomy in security, also developing devices and services for critical infrastructure and public services. and to do that, investment in research and innovation is essential.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text because of the importance of having a european security strategy. given that the threats to european security today are almost always cross-border, europe must understand that it must tackle these challenges in a unified way, with an effective information-sharing system that is the result of cooperation between judicial and police forces. the proposal voted in plenary focuses mainly on the fight against organised crime, terrorism and cybercrime, but despite the high levels of concern usually raised by these issues, it succeeds in proposing solutions that also aim at safeguarding fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report because the measures proposed are certainly not worthy of the purpose of the report. fighting terrorism with pnr certainly seems ridiculous, not to mention the constant references to the disconnect between islamic immigration and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the european agenda on security because i believe that the implementation of eu security policy is a shared responsibility of all political and social actors in the european union. in the current geopolitical context, threats to the security of the european union are rapidly evolving and, above all, they are no longer identifiable according to traditional criteria but are becoming less and less conventional and unexpected. i therefore welcome the european commission's proposal for a european agenda on security for 2015-2020 which will undoubtedly be an effective and efficient tool in the fight against new international challenges such as terrorism, cross-border organised crime and cybercrime. i particularly appreciated the general structure of the agenda which puts the respect for human rights and the rule of law at the forefront and the need to strike the right balance between measures to combat international threats and respect for freedom and the principles of justice. i share the call on the commission to put more decisive measures on the agenda to combat radicalisation, violent extremism and ideologies that are dangerous to the security of european citizens, and i welcome initiatives aimed at social integration and inclusion.
in writing. ‒ we cannot hide the fact that threats to the internal security of the union have become more complex, composite, asymmetrical, international, rapidly evolving and difficult to predict. we cannot fail to recognize the need for the european union to take forward-looking action in the field of security. however, i think that the content of this resolution has on several occasions lost its original purpose and ended up in rhetorical and naive considerations. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i believe that it is essential to raise the security parameters within eu countries, reiterating the call on the commission to submit a legislative proposal to amend rapidly regulation (ec) no 1987/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 on the establishment, operation and use of the second generation schengen information system (sis ii) (7) in order to harmonise the criteria for reporting and make it mandatory to report persons convicted or suspected of terrorism.
in writing. ‒ in line with the ppe group, i have decided to abstain from voting on the report on the european agenda on security, because the text presented reflects the too naive and superficial approach taken by the socialists, greens and liberals. the ppe cannot support a proposal which severely restricts the police and armed forces' action against criminals and terrorists, as the left in parliament wants. at a time like the present, when the security of european citizens is threatened on a daily basis, we need more and more intelligence, police and legal instruments to guarantee national security. to deny the correlation between migration waves and security threats is to deliberately and naively deny a problem that is right in front of everyone's eyes. for this reason, measures should be taken to improve the exchange of information, strengthen cooperation and provide support to member states. to do this, we must first consult the agencies actually working in this field, asking in particular what their needs might be, also in terms of staff and the additional costs they have had to bear, because of the ever-increasing requirements. there is still a lot of work to be done in the area of security.
in writing. the resolution analysing the situation in yemen is acceptable and i voted in favour of it. i believe that the current conflict can only be resolved by a political solution and that there is a need for coordinated action under the leadership of the united nations. i strongly condemn any violence or discrimination based on religion and belief currently taking place in yemen.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is important that the union shows its closeness and support to the yemeni people and that it works to bring an end to the terrible civil war in yemen.
in writing. - i vote for it. stresses that the conflict can only be resolved through a political, inclusive and negotiated solution and the need for coordinated humanitarian action under the leadership of the united nations; further urge all countries to contribute to addressing humanitarian needs; calls on the international community to contribute to the revised un humanitarian appeal and reiterates that freedom of religion and belief is a fundamental right. the eu strongly condemns any violence or discrimination based on religion or belief in yemen.
in writing. ‒ the current crisis in the yemeni state is the result of the failure of successive governments to respond to the legitimate aspirations of the yemeni people for democracy and economic and social development. the failures of the abd-rabbu mansour government, which failed to create an inclusive government and systematically ignored tribal tensions, created the conditions for the rise of the houthi militias. since march 2015, an alliance of arab states led by saudi arabia has launched a campaign to counter the houthi militia's gains and bring hadi back to power. the airstrikes by the saudi-led coalition and the naval blockade imposed on yemen have not only caused the deaths of thousands of people, but have also created favourable conditions for the expansion of terrorist organisations such as is and al-qaeda, exacerbating an already critical humanitarian situation. in line with the resolution i voted for, i believe that this conflict can only be resolved by an inclusive and negotiated political solution capable of leading to the formation of a government of national unity, in order to restore peace and deal with the humanitarian crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because the protection of human rights always has my full support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's joint resolution on the situation in yemen. the crisis has escalated into a violent conflict involving the houthi rebels al-qaeda in the arabian peninsula and isis, resulting in 3,000 deaths, 10,000 wounded, 250,000 refugees and 335,000 displaced people. 80% of the population - 22 million people - are in urgent need of food, water and medicine. in addition, the situation has worsened following the decision of saudi arabia (leader of a military coalition including qatar, bahrain, egypt, jordan, kuwait, morocco, sudan and the united arab emirates) to impose a naval blockade. the armed conflict and its escalation threaten yemen's cultural heritage. the european parliament called for a peaceful solution to the conflict, strongly condemned the actions of isis and expressed its support for the work of the un secretary-general's special envoy for yemen.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal on the situation in yemen, as i believe that this is a country which needs the help of the international community to reach a negotiated political solution. the country is on the verge of collapse and is in the midst of a humanitarian emergency, and i therefore condemn all the forms of violence that have been and continue to be perpetrated on its territory and i hope that the united nations, parliament and the entire international community will succeed in obtaining respect for international humanitarian law and human rights and important ceasefires that will allow yemen to obtain food, water and medical supplies. the air raids have so far shown no respect for civilians and there are even fears that cluster bombs have been used in the conflict which are prohibited by international law. but the worst affected are children, an estimated 9.9 million of whom have been affected by the conflict either by being killed or injured, many of whom have been recruited to fight. i hope therefore that yemen will be able to find a compromise that will enable it to achieve a government of national unity in which the people can live in peace and have their democratic rights and aspirations respected.
in writing. ‒ yemen is a country on the brink of collapse, beset by a humanitarian crisis caused by the inability of successive governments to respond to the legitimate aspirations of the people for democracy, economic and social development. the international community must commit itself to finding a political and practical solution to the conflict, also because the recent developments will soon pose serious risks to the stability of the entire region, including the horn of africa, the red sea and the middle east. so, zero tolerance for persecution and massacre of the civilian population, especially women and children, and against the use of weapons and terrorist attacks. instead, we need to act quickly through humanitarian corridors to save children, to bring food, water and medicine to the more than 15.9 million people forced to live in precarious conditions.
in writing. ‒ the situation in the gulf state is becoming increasingly critical: airstrikes by the saudi-led coalition continue across the country, as do clashes on the ground between houthis, pro-government troops and tribal militias. the prospect of a humanitarian truce is more necessary than ever, but it still seems very far away. from 19 march to the present, according to the un, the bombings have caused over 3 thousand casualties, half of them civilians, and 14 thousand wounded. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the international community, the united nations and europe itself must do everything possible to try to find a solution for yemen.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the resolution which stresses that the conflict can only be resolved through a political, inclusive and negotiated solution and the need for coordinated humanitarian action under the leadership of the united nations.
in writing. ‒ by voting in favour of this resolution, i reiterated my firm support for the unity, sovereignty, independence, and territorial integrity of yemen. i particularly appreciated the reference in the document to the need to put an immediate end to the violence within the country.
in writing. ‒ regarding the situation in yemen, which continues to persist, considering that the population is suffering from a profound crisis and opposing all forms of war and discrimination, considering that the current crisis in yemen is the result of the inability of successive governments to respond to the legitimate aspirations of the yemeni people for democracy, economic and social development, i express my disgust and my closeness to the yemeni people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in yemen. since the beginning of the conflict in this arab region, according to the international red cross in sana'a and aden, the population has been deprived of basic necessities. according to the united nations, since the start of the coalition's bombing, 100,000 people have been forced to flee their homes. these are numbers which show no sign of abating and to which europe cannot remain indifferent.
in writing. ‒ i do not share the positions taken in the resolution under vote, i do not think that the proposed measures are worthy of the purpose it seeks, and i do not share at all the persistent denial of a direct link between the mass landings off the coast of north africa and terrorism; i voted against this text for all these reasons.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i am firmly convinced that a stronger eu presence in the mena region is necessary, as the stability of this region represents one of the major challenges of the union's foreign policy in the light of the syrian civil war, the rise of isil/da'esh and the migration emergency.
in writing. - i vote for it. given the rapidly deteriorating situation of increased conflict and tension in the middle east and north africa (mena) region, and its strategic and security importance to the european union, the eu needs to increase its influence to stimulate foreign policy and long-term economic stability in those places. regional actors should increase their involvement in addressing security issues and it is stressed that the european union should not think of this region only through the lens of short-term security threats. eu member states must increase their military, logistical, financial and humanitarian mobilisation in dealing with conflicts in the mena region and call for better coordination of their efforts, in particular in the fight against isis. the eu should become the main facilitator of a regional dialogue involving all actors in the mena region and high representative mogherini is invited to ensure a constant high-level dialogue with these countries. the eu must also step up its commitment to the middle east peace process which is now at a standstill.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the security challenges in the middle east and north africa and prospects for political stability. the conflicts in syria, iraq, yemen and libya and the increase in tensions in the middle east and north africa (mena) region are major sources of destabilisation in that region. this situation has serious repercussions for the whole region, as it seriously affects its social, political and economic development. but the risks of this crisis are not confined to the region: the security of european citizens and the interests of the european union linked to these territories are also at serious risk. the european union and its member states must therefore address urgently the issues that are leading to an increasingly deteriorating situation throughout the mena region. in this respect, a holistic and ambitious approach is needed. the international campaign against isil/da'esh must therefore be pursued together with international partners in the context of a common strategy. at the same time, the eu must engage with the mena countries in order to establish a dialogue that can contribute to achieving stability in the region.
in writing. ‒ while this is an excellent report, which seeks to take a regional approach to all the crises that have occurred in recent years in the mena neighbourhood, the peillon report contains some passages that could be, in my view, problematic. that is why i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the security challenges in the middle east and north africa (mena) region and the prospects for political stability. the stability of the mena region is seriously threatened by the conflicts in syria, iraq, yemen and libya. in addition, in northern iraq and syria, isis/da'esh and other terrorist organisations are committing war crimes. in recent weeks, in north africa, isis has claimed responsibility for bloody attacks against muslims and westerners in tunisia. it is therefore necessary to act against the threat posed by isis, to review the eu strategy in the mena region in order to increase its influence, and to promote respect for human rights, democracy and economic development.
in writing. ‒ my vote in favour is linked to the continuing conflicts in the mena region (middle east and north africa) which are killing innocent people and are a major source of danger and destabilisation. the risks to the security of citizens and to the interests of the european union are serious and increasing. the violations of human rights and humanitarian law that are being committed concern us, make us reflect and call us to ensure a strategic political dialogue and a real debate with the states involved. the continuing fighting in syria requires an urgent political solution to end the conflict, taking into account the requirements of international humanitarian law. cultural cooperation and diplomacy, together with religious dialogue, are essential to combating terrorism and radicalism: there is a high demand to promote a european response to counter jihadist propaganda and radicalisation at home, taking into account digital tools, the internet and social networks. we will do everything possible to ensure democracy, a source of political instability, and respect for human rights.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that the destabilisation of the so-called mena region has led to a major geopolitical upheaval, with severe repercussions in terms of political-economic stability and security in the region as a whole. the long-term political and economic stability of the region has always been of key strategic importance for european policy, as demonstrated by the european neighbourhood policy. i therefore believe that the union must tackle the causes of this situation by defining comprehensive policies and medium- and long-term cooperation with the countries concerned. i am therefore aware of the need to build a better dialogue with the countries of the region and have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report given the dramatic situation of tension in the middle east and north africa. the report calls for the eu to increase its influence to stimulate foreign policy and long-term economic stability in those places. i would remind you, however, that the eu and its allies bear a great deal of political responsibility for the deterioration of the situation in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr peillon's report on the security challenges in the middle east and north africa region and the prospects for political stability. there is no doubt that the current situation in the mena region is a major concern for the stability of the entire continent and that the fight against terrorism is one of the most important challenges of our time. in particular, the escalation of violence in tunisia in recent days should call the attention of the european union to the maghreb country which has been the best to deal with the democratic transition of the arab spring. i shared the call to the eu and its member states to insist on security and stability in the mena region and i welcome the allocation of one billion euro in humanitarian aid to the people of syria and iraq occupied by the islamic state. i would like to stress the importance of launching a european programme to support women and girls who are victims of sexual violence in the conflict zones of the mena region and i am in favour of the development of agreements for cultural cooperation and the creation of a euro-mediterranean erasmus programme.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. the conflicts in syria, iraq, yemen and libya and the increase in tensions in the middle east and north africa (mena) region are major sources of destabilisation in that region and there is a need to review eu action in that region. action is necessary in the light of the impact of the arab uprisings on the countries concerned, the new and complex situation that has been created and the imperative need to combat isil/da'esh and other terrorist organisations. the eu and its member states are called upon to address the root causes of the rapid deterioration of the situation across the mena region through a holistic and ambitious approach.
in writing. ‒ this report strongly condemns the continued violations of the right to freedom of religion, conscience and thought in the middle east and north africa. i thought it appropriate to express my support for the document, because i believe that it is necessary to stimulate a constructive dialogue, which defines the conditions under which security and stability within the area in question are adequately guaranteed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the security challenges in the middle east and north africa region and the prospects for political stability as i believe it is necessary to address the threats and security situation, strengthen the global strategy for democracy and human rights and deepen cooperation for economic development. first, i am convinced that the lack of democracy is one of the root causes of political instability in the region and that respect for human rights and basic democratic principles is the main long-term protection against the chronic instability of the countries of the mena region. i also believe that balanced action is needed, within the framework of a holistic and ambitious approach to democracy, to combine security policy with human rights policy; stresses the importance of strengthening long-term stability in the mena region through continued eu support to civil society. finally, to achieve political stability, i stress the need for socioeconomic development, the strengthening of democracy and justice, and cooperation in the fight against corruption in the mena countries.
in writing. ‒ mr peillon has spelled out very clearly what the eu and the member states must do to ensure that the economic aid provided to the mena countries is not wasted. the need to speak with one voice is a matter that must be resolved as soon as possible. we cannot afford to be divided internationally, especially now that our neighbours are torn apart by war and the threat of terrorism is as real as ever in our own country.
in writing. ‒ in a context of deep crisis and instability such as that in the north african region and the near east today, europe is called upon to address the root causes of the rapid deterioration of the situation in these areas. the report voted in the afet, while openly condemning the continuing violations of the right to freedom of religion and belief, stresses the importance of the energy issue in the mediterranean as a possible way of stimulating regional cooperation, promoting stability and ensuring environmental integrity. the european union cannot simply sit by and watch, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the kukan report analyses the revision of the neighbourhood policy, and in many respects it is acceptable, but i think that too often third countries which have benefited from substantial european subsidies and facilities have then deliberately ignored the minimum requirements which the eu has always made to them, such as respect for human rights and a greater democratic process, and for these reasons i abstained in this vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that a revision of the european neighbourhood policy is necessary to make it more solid, political and effective, while maintaining the centrality given to respect for fundamental universal values such as human rights, democracy and the rule of law, which alone can guarantee a real improvement in the living conditions of the citizens of our neighbouring countries.
in writing. - i vote against it. the enp european neighbourhood policy is made up of 16 countries (for eastern europe: armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova, ukraine and algeria, egypt, israel, jordan, lebanon, libya, morocco, palestine, syria, and tunisia for the middle east and north africa). the new financial instrument for the enp in the period 2014-2020 is the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) with a budget of eur 15,4 billion. too expensive and used inconclusively.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the revision of the european neighbourhood policy (enp). the european neighbourhood policy aims to deepen relations, consolidate cooperation and strengthen the european union's partnerships with neighbouring countries. its ultimate aim is to create a common space of stability, security and prosperity. the union's neighbourhood is currently particularly unstable and its balance is constantly changing. the number of challenges for the european neighbourhood policy is therefore much higher than in the past. the report therefore highlighted the need to revise the enp, which must become a tool capable of giving faster responses, be more flexible and have an ambitious and strategic vision for the development of relations with neighbouring countries. i agree with these considerations and believe that a reformed and effective enp could contribute to a significant strengthening of the credibility and positioning of the union's foreign policy, as well as to increasing european leadership in neighbourhood and relations with global partners.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain because this report, while framing the external neighbourhood policy in a very conscious way, in my view raises serious concerns when it seeks to give a security dimension to the enp, thus going beyond the limits of the framework for action of both the enp and the eu, which still does not have an army or a common and binding foreign or security policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the revision of the european neighbourhood policy. the european neighbourhood policy (enp) was established to deepen relations and to consolidate cooperation and strengthen the eu's partnerships with neighbouring countries, with a view to developing a common area of stability, security and prosperity. however, in many neighbourhood countries, violent conflicts are undermining the development of a genuine and effective multilateral dimension of the enp. the proposal calls for greater emphasis on partnership with companies, differentiation and a more for more approach. parliament also called for closer coordination between the enp and the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and the common security and defence policy (csdp).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is vital to implement the european neighbourhood policy. recent events have shown that greater instability in neighbouring countries is leading to greater difficulties and problems within the union itself. in a globalised world such as the one we live in today, we cannot turn a blind eye to the violation of human rights in our own neighbourhood, to the increase in poverty caused by armed conflict and civil war, and to the extreme living conditions faced by entire populations. the european union has a duty to play a decisive role in its relations with neighbouring countries in order to encourage a transition towards more transparent and fair democratic institutions. greater stability in our neighbours would also bring economic and social benefits within the union itself. just think of the immigration problem that creates so much disorder and disagreement within and between member countries. i therefore believe that it is important to increase the efficiency of our neighbourhood policy, because by providing more assistance and incentives, it will be possible to spread respect for fundamental rights and create an area of prosperity, stability and security that will benefit the citizens of the union and the neighbouring countries.
in writing. ‒ the european neighbourhood policy (enp) was established to deepen relations, consolidate cooperation and strengthen the eu's partnerships with neighbouring countries. however, in the past this policy has served its purpose with an undifferentiated strategic approach which has not sufficiently distinguished between the specific situations of the countries concerned. i believe that the eu, as the guardian of universally recognised core values, should re-shape the european neighbourhood policy by proposing an ambitious and strategic vision for the development of relations with neighbouring countries in a bilateral and multilateral context. to this end, the union must play a more active role in the peaceful resolution of ongoing conflicts and continue to firmly support transition processes in all countries. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, in the hope that a neighbourhood policy based on solid and lasting partnerships would be implemented.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the european neighbourhood policy (enp) is particularly necessary because of the growing instability experienced by many countries in the mediterranean and the middle east, which are our neighbours and valuable partners: a strategic policy response is therefore needed at union level. as the kukan report underlines, the eu should promote an active dialogue with all civil society actors, first and foremost citizens, which is crucial to initiating and making sustainable those economic and political reforms that ensure not only economic development but also the full completion of the democratization process in our neighbourhood. the revision of the enp must be based on an approach which takes account of the structural differences of these countries, characterized by policies of assistance which stimulate employment and growth and thus guarantee better living conditions and education levels, greater opportunities for the new generations. this will also make it possible to manage migration better. only through political dialogue with its neighbourhood partners and other neighbouring countries will the eu be able to find ambitious solutions to complex challenges such as immigration, the fight against poverty and discrimination, and the protection and promotion of human rights.
in writing. - i vote against the report. the amendments are not radical and i do not think they are conclusive. we have been calling for a complete review of the enp for some time.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr kukan's report on the revision of the european neighbourhood policy because i believe that the enp can be an important political and strategic tool for creating an area of security and stability from which european citizens and their neighbours can benefit. however, the results of the european neighbourhood policy are so far limited: the enp has not been able to adapt to the changing geopolitical situations of the neighbourhood. i therefore believe that the enp needs to be restructured in such a way that it sets short, medium and longterm objectives and is ambitious in achieving these objectives. i fully share the need to focus on strengthening democracy and the rule of law, just as we cannot let our guard down over the many reports of human rights violations outside the eu's borders. it is essential that the eu identifies with its partners priorities for joint integration in the economic, political, environmental, conflict prevention and migration fields, which have been at the centre of a major eu-wide debate in recent months. i am in favour of joint project programmes involving women, young people and future leaders, which can provide them with appropriate training.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the proposal. the european neighbourhood policy (enp) was established to deepen relations, consolidate cooperation and strengthen the eu's partnerships with neighbouring countries, with a view to developing a common area of stability, security and prosperity. the enp must deliver tangible and concrete improvements for the citizens of the partner countries and create multi-level relationships and strong interdependence between the eu and its neighbourhood partners. the report stresses that the renewed policy must be more strategic, targeted, flexible, coherent and politically animated.
in writing. ‒ the report signed by mr kukan highlights the strategic importance of the european neighbourhood policy as a useful tool for creating interdependent relations between the european union and the states which are party to the initiative. i particularly appreciated the reference in the text to the need to ensure tangible and concrete improvements for the citizens of the partner countries, as well as the reference to the need to make the neighbourhood policy more solid and effective. in view of the foregoing considerations, i have decided to vote in favour of this document.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the european neighbourhood policy is a key step in the security challenge and in building a fruitful partnership with our neighbours. the new neighbourhood policy will have to be based on greater flexibility and differentiation: the partners have different aspirations and the agreements must be tailored to the specific characteristics of each country. the main challenges of the new programming are the fight against radicalism, poverty and the strengthening of security. the goal is to have a prosperous and safe neighborhood. we must use the principle of more for more, but bearing in mind that this can lead to contradictions, if countries lagging behind in their democratic transition receive less, this is at the expense of the population. the aid must be balanced between the eastern and southern neighbourhoods and i think it is particularly appropriate to give special attention to tunisia, which has made real democratic progress and which could be put into crisis by the recent tragic events. it is important to maintain the strategic dialogue, we must not separate the enp from foreign policy because a safer neighbourhood means greater security in europe.
in writing. - our safety depends on that of our neighbors. a reformulation of the european neighbourhood policy is necessary to reflect the current geopolitical situation in the area. i think the eu should make a little self-criticism because it has failed to create the circle of friends it had set itself when it launched its neighbourhood policy. we must increase the programmes of technical assistance and cultural exchange which can facilitate better mutual understanding.
in writing. ‒ the european neighbourhood policy (enp) is an essential part of the european union's foreign policy. i believe it is of paramount importance to support its objectives in order to create an area of prosperity, stability and security, based on the common values and principles of the european union. the eu must be able to identify, together with its partners, priorities for enhanced cooperation, integrating different areas of intervention such as the prevention of natural disasters, the strengthening of infrastructure and regional development, migration flows. i believe that the security component should be emphasised and that this revision proposal calls for closer coordination between the european neighbourhood policy and the activities of the cfsp and the csdp. in addition, the eu is invited to focus on strengthening the capacity of partner countries for border control. i therefore decided to support this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the house has long been calling on the commission to take action to make the necessary changes to the enp, the european neighbourhood policy, which was set up in 2003 to cooperate with europe's neighbours by land and sea, establishing a privileged relationship that would surely bring stability, security and development to all those involved in the policy. since 2011, when the 'more for more' clause was introduced - the more countries commit to cooperation, the more they benefit - the geopolitical situation has changed a lot, which is why i voted in favour of the report proposed by the committee on foreign affairs, which suggests the path the eu should take in the context of the enp. in particular, i agree with the call to maintain the principle of differentiation in relations with individual states, to strengthen coordination between the enp and activities under the common foreign and security policy, and to support partners in implementing more and stricter security controls in order to have a better capacity to defend themselves against terrorist and criminal attacks.
in writing. ‒ although the initial proposal for this report was highly problematic, the final compromise reached by the legal affairs committee was an improvement and was accepted by the italian stakeholders themselves, albeit with reservations. this report is intended to be a basis for the commission, when it presents its proposals we can get into the more important and incisive issues for the italian market and to protect the interests of small and mediumsized enterprises not consumers. i therefore consider that, all things considered, this text is a good starting point and i support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the dissemination of culture in its broadest sense is one of the pillars of the union, as is the legal protection of its authors and artists. the issues raised are of great relevance, as the need for copyright legislation to be adapted to the digital age has become apparent. the report on the implementation of the directive on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society has been the subject of a lively debate. the contents of the report, concerning freedom of opinion, have provoked strong reactions from the public. today's vote concludes a healthy process of democratic dialogue in which political representatives respond to the concerns and needs of european voters. for these reasons, i support the solutions and the guidelines contained in this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i am convinced that, given the enormous change in the technological environment, which has profoundly changed the market for works of art, there is a need for harmonisation of copyright, especially with a view to a digital single market, in which digital works of art will play a fundamental role.
in writing. ‒ the digital revolution has radically transformed society, the way we live, travel, work and communicate. the european union must be at the forefront of this transformation by overcoming the digital divide and defending the fundamental rights of digital users, as exemplified by the free panorama regulation in italy. citizens have the right to the protection of their personal data and to the security and confidentiality of their communications. at the same time, we have to realize that the internet has great creative potential that we can now unlock. the reduction of legal differences between the member states in the field of copyright is beneficial for the free circulation of images, the audiovisual market, the promotion of landscape and cultural tourism, and the fluidity of the world of amateur and author photography. researchers will have lower costs to sift through and analyse large amounts of data with positive implications for their work. online courses may include more copyrighted material. we will have more transparency on copyright fees and the destination of the money collected. the world today is like a great global city deeply interconnected or a vast sea full of currents and information: it is up to us europeans to decide whether we want to be at the centre of it or be pushed to the margins.
in writing. - i vote for it. the compromise reached by the legal affairs committee, which was an improvement on the initial proposal, was 'accepted with reservations' by the main italian stakeholders. the own-initiative report is intended as a suggestion to the commission; the commission will be able to go into more detail on the important issues when it presents its proposals (the role of service providers and intermediaries, geo-blocking, the use of recorded material in public places, etc.). the protection of works must be given priority in copyright matters, preserving intellectual property from the abuses and fraudulent uses that are often seen on the internet. at the same time, the wide use of digital tools must allow for the full (and, where appropriate, cross-border) use of content. the text seems to be a good starting point for exclusive rights and exceptions. the overall opinion is therefore favourable.
in writing. ‒ the report examines key aspects of intellectual property and goes far beyond this, to redefining the boundaries and the way in which related rights are exercised in the information society. our society aims to be 'intellectual property rights intensive', and this fact should make us aware that we are acting on (as well as on) the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i am thinking of freedom of expression, the protection of personal data and intellectual property, and i am referring symbolically to the threat to freedom of panorama. taking pictures of a public place, a monument or architecture and being able to share them should be the prerogative of every european citizen. the perception of the beauty - or even the problematic - of our urban environment must be elevated, not restricted, and freely transmitted and shared. obviously, there are remedies when privacy is violated or when the footage is commercialized. it therefore requires a massive effort (given the vastness of the subject) but at the same time surgical, to redefine and rationalize, before even deciding how much and how to liberalize, protect, discipline, modify. we are on the verge of a real redefinition of the work of art and of the intellect in general.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that copyright should be protected. but if we do not recognise a coherent and harmonised approach within the eu, it will always be easy to circumvent national rules. the dissemination of culture and knowledge is in the public interest and it is necessary that their authors and performers receive legal protection for the works they compose. it would be an excessive burden to ask them to pay 28 lawyers, one from each member state to defend their works. it is precisely against this situation that i am fighting, supporting harmonization also in the abovementioned field, which is the lifeblood of national and european culture and ingenuity. the duration of copyright, for example, is still very different in the various member states and there is an urgent need for harmonisation by the european legislator. as regards the right to a panorama, however, i take a different view: the commercial use of photographs, film or other images of works permanently located in public places shall not be subject to authorisation. it is in the interest of the whole community to be able to admire public property and to be able to photograph it without having to ask for permission and without having to pay.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that this directive represents a further and important development of the ambitious digital agenda project. i believe that copyright and related rights protect and stimulate both the development and marketing of new products and services and the creation and exploitation of their creative content, thus contributing to an improvement in competitiveness, employment and innovation in various industrial sectors in the eu. i therefore believe that it is necessary to encourage the harmonization in the individual member states of the terms of protection of copyright and related rights for each type of work and for each related right.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of directive 2001/29/ec because i share the need to adapt the existing framework in the light of developments in the digital age and to reduce the fragmentation of legislation on important issues such as the duration of copyright protection. it is important to address these challenges in order to help to consolidate the freedoms of movement that are the hallmark of the single market. i believe that there is a need to provide adequate protection for copyright and related rights, balancing the needs of users with the interests of the copyright holders.
in writing. this resolution on the revision of the copyright directive contained paragraph 46, which stated: 'the commercial use of photographs, film or other images of works permanently located in physical public places should always be subject to prior authorisation by the authors or a person delegated by them.' since this amendment was aimed at excluding freedom of panorama, i voted against it, bringing to the plenary the voice of the many citizens who have mobilized in recent days to remove from the final text the proposal to restrict the right to photograph public space freely. once this amendment was removed from the text, i was able to vote in favour of the whole report. apart from the amendment excluding freedom of panorama, the rest of the resolution provided the commission with some useful ideas to consider in the reform of the infosoc directive, a directive which was intended to harmonize certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society, but which now - after 11 years - needs to be revised in the light of the current methods of creating, producing and using content on the computer, which are determined by technological progress.
in writing. ‒ i support this own-initiative report, albeit with some important reservations, but overall the text seems to be a good starting point. the proposal will serve as an incentive for the commission when it submits its proposals.
in writing. ‒ with this resolution we have sent a strong message to the commission: copyright must be adapted to the digital age by ensuring the right balance between the rights and interests of creators and consumers. we must ensure that the creators are properly remunerated; we need to provide users with legal certainty for their daily actions. finally, we must ensure inclusive access to culture and knowledge. we have managed to reject the proposal to restrict the right to freely photograph public space. europe is a territory rich in cultural heritage that bears witness to our history and the evolution of our culture, and i firmly believe in the potential of sharing our landscapes and our cultural heritage.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs reda's report on the harmonization of certain aspects of copyright and related rights. the infosoc directive introduced minimum levels of copyright protection without setting rules for the protection of the interests of users and the public, and thus without harmonising copyright law at european level, which has led to further fragmentation of national copyright legislation. this report will continue to promote investment in the creative sector, giving industries the opportunity to use digital technologies and end-users better access to them.
in writing. ‒ considering that the implementation of the infosoc copyright directive has not led to the harmonisation of copyright which many parties wanted, i have decided to support this report, which calls for coordination of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society.
in writing. ‒ the completion of the single market, including its digital economy aspects, is of crucial importance for europe. the benefits to consumers of an integrated digital society are well known. the objective importance of the creative and cultural industries for the european economy is equally well known, amounting to eur 500 billion of gdp and 7 million workers. for these enterprises and workers, creativity and culture are real 'factors of production'. copyright is therefore a driving force for the cultural and creative industries, so that they continue to be a strategic sector for competitiveness, growth and employment in europe. the report therefore not only ensures fairer and easier access to cultural content for consumers, but also protects the right of artists and producers to fair remuneration for the product of their work. a protection of cultural investment which is essential for a europe united in diversity. the safeguarding of europe's 'cultural diversity' requires particular attention to the specificities and customs of the regions, which the report clearly emphasises. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution to promote sustainable, inclusive and culturally pluralistic growth in the eu.
in writing. ‒ harmonising copyright protection is of paramount importance to ensure that creative industries in europe continue to develop. in a context where infringement of intellectual property is on the agenda, i thank mrs reda for her work and hope that i have made a contribution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr reda on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights. this report, which i initially found dubious, was a report on the need to strike the right balance between copyright protection in the digital age, which also helps to ensure respect for europe's cultural diversity, and access to content and services by citizens. after several negotiations in committee, the epp succeeded in getting a text adopted which reflects the balance of rights indicated in the compromises. one point in the text that i find particularly interesting is the possibility given to industry to embrace digital technologies to ensure better access for the end user. the digital game is one that europe is playing on several fronts, and the creative sector will also benefit from important results.
in writing. - i voted against it with conviction and regret. i regret that, because julia reda had written a very good report. i am convinced of that, because it has been changed to the point of being unacceptable. first of all, the underlying 'philosophy' is unacceptable: culture is considered a commodity produced for profit. michelangelo didn't paint the sistine chapel to charge for admission. this relationship suffocates in the cradle the artistic inspiration of any author. the ability to rework other people's content is also reduced to the ability to make caricatures and pastiches. if ancient rome had copyright laws like these, it could not have passed down buildings and statues, since they were frequently reworkings of greek models. latin writers like plautus or terence, instead of occupying a prominent place in the history of literature, would have ended up in trouble for copyright infringement held by greek authors. with such rules, the entire italian renaissance would not have been because the starting point and inspiration of artists and literati were the works handed down from ancient rome and greece. unfortunately, the majority of the european parliament voted against art and culture when it adopted this report.
in writing. ‒ the european endowment for democracy has helped to promote and encourage democratisation in countries where political transitions are taking place and where there are societies struggling to get a truly democratic system from incumbent governments. although the aims of this fund and the projects it finances are quite acceptable, there are some unclear passages in the text which is being voted on which i do not entirely agree with, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european endowment for democracy has done a good job in promoting and encouraging democratization and rooted democracy in countries in political transition, especially in the light of the currently very difficult international context.
in writing. - i vote against it. the funds are often used in a manner contrary to the stated purpose of the edf.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the eu's new approach to human rights and democracy which focused on the evaluation of the activities of the european endowment for democracy (eed) since its establishment. as enshrined in article 21 of the treaty on european union and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, the promotion and support of democracy, the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights and freedoms are fundamental objectives of the european union. despite its short period of activity and limited funds, the european democracy fund has fostered and encouraged the process of democratization in countries undergoing political transition by promoting dialogue in diversity and non-violence, encouraging social and political participation, and protecting activists and journalists working in the territories to ensure and accelerate the start of a democratic process. the resolution underlines the uniqueness and added value of the eed and lays the foundations for the development of new and innovative means and instruments for democracy assistance. that is why i voted for it today.
in writing. ‒ under the new european neighbourhood policy, the european union decided in 2012 to allocate €6 million to ensure the rapid launch of the european democracy fund. (eed) the commission has the added value of the eed is that it can directly collaborate with journalists, bloggers, unregistered ngos, political movements, especially when these actors operate in an uncertain political context. i therefore voted in favour of the report by mr andrzej grzyb.
in writing. ‒ the defence and strengthening of democracy are essential objectives of the union, within and across its borders. the european union has a long history of supporting the development of the countries of central and eastern europe, and the community has a long history of supporting the development of the countries of central and eastern europe. the european democracy fund (edf) - despite the short time since its establishment, the fact that 12 countries (unfortunately including italy) have not yet secured their contributions and some other critical points - has played an appreciable role in supporting the development of democratic regimes in the eastern and southern european neighbourhood, for example by supporting, with concrete interventions, freedom of expression and association, freedom of the media and the fight against corruption. the resolution recognises the strategic role of the eed and lays the foundations for its further strengthening (including in terms of human resources), in particular by focusing on support for victims of social and/or political marginalization, women's movements, minorities, grassroots movements, trade unions, vulnerable or emerging political movements, and new media activists. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i am convinced that this fund has achieved its objectives. despite the difficult period in which it is operating, the short time of its activities and the limited funds, its activities to promote and encourage democracy seem to have been well promoted. democracy remains one of the fundamental principles of the eu's foreign policy and property rights remain the key to promoting a genuine democratic culture. a large number of member states have recently completed the process of democratization, and have accumulated a great deal of experience in this field. this same experience could easily be transferred to those who have yet to reach a more mature stage of their political and social stage. the edd's work must, however, be directed towards ensuring internal and external coherence in relation to the efforts made to achieve democracy, including by informing potential beneficiaries of the fund of what is at stake.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, multiple political, economic and security challenges have jeopardised the processes of democratisation and the assertion of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the eu's neighbourhood. i am aware that democracy assistance activities are by their nature complex, as the political transformations taking place in the countries concerned are not linear. therefore, welcoming the eed's continued commitment to promoting democracy in complementarity with the european external financial instruments, i have decided to vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support the report because the eu's approach to human rights and democracy in assessing the activities of the european endowment for democracy (eed) since its inception lacks an objective and politically balanced approach.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu's new approach to human rights and democracy and on the evaluation of the activities of the european endowment for democracy (eed) since its establishment. i congratulate all those member states which have in recent years completed a profound democratic transformation of their societies, a sign of the primary will to share fully the values of the european union. in this sense, the edf can be a strong support instrument for democracy assistance activities, through the implementation of programmes aimed at combating corruption and respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms. i therefore welcome the results achieved so far by the eed, not only in view of the difficult international situation but also in view of the limited funds at its disposal. i hope that in this connection we will be able to secure more extensive and longer-term funding. i also welcome the increasingly close cooperation between the edf and the european parliament, which is an indication that the latter's contribution is essential to achieving the objectives at european level. finally, i hope that the edf will continue to cooperate in the creation of new instruments and the involvement of new actors in democracy assistance.
in writing. ‒ the european endowment for democracy (eed) promotes and encourages the implementation of sustainable democracy in countries affected by a political transition process, and in societies struggling for democratization. i believe that the eed has worked hard for freedom of expression and association, freedom of the media, development and consolidation of the rule of law. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this document.
in writing. ‒ i thank mr grzyb for his excellent report and i stress the need for all member states to participate in the granting of this fund: the best map of europe that has given us the chance to unite the continent and live in peace and harmony for the last 70 years is democracy. this concept has succeeded in breaking down the ideological barriers that separated europe during the cold war and i believe that by investing the resources of the european endowment for democracy (edd) in the right way, it is possible to bring other countries closer to the ideals of freedom and democracy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by the committee on foreign affairs on the evaluation of the activities of the european endowment for democracy (eed). the eed is a fast and flexible funding mechanism for beneficiaries who are not (or not sufficiently) supported, mainly for legal or administrative reasons. the evaluation carried out by the afet committee gave a very positive picture of the activities of the fund, which fulfils its main objective of promoting and encouraging democratization and deep-rooted and sustainable democracy in countries undergoing political transition and in societies struggling for democratization. the eed has shown that it can deliver on its commitments, and that is the main reason why i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ the resolution is not critical and is acceptable. it is necessary to put an immediate end to the violence and political intimidation against the opposition in burundi and to proceed to the immediate disarmament of all armed groups allied to political parties. impunity for those responsible for the serious human rights violations that are being perpetrated in the country cannot be tolerated.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the union should work to bring an end to the violence currently ravaging burundi and to ensure that humanitarian aid reaches the local population as quickly as possible.
in writing. - i vote for it. whereas the right to freedom of expression is guaranteed by the constitution of burundi and by the international and regional treaties it has ratified, and is part of the national strategy for good governance and the fight against corruption; calls for an immediate end to violence and political intimidation against opponents and for the immediate disarmament of all armed youth groups allied to political parties, and reiterates that there can be no impunity for those responsible for serious human rights violations, who must be held individually accountable and held criminally accountable for their acts; the immediate deployment of human rights observers and military experts announced by the african union is of particular importance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it is necessary to urge the burundian government to stop the spiral of repression and allow elections to be held as normal in accordance with the constitutional charter. the situation has escalated in recent weeks after the announcement of the dismissal of president pierre nkurunziza and the postponement of elections, which triggered violent and bloody clashes in the country. since the beginning of the protests, some 40 people have been killed, and more than 100,000 people have fled burundi. after the criticisms of many african leaders, as well as those of the united states, we must also make europe's strong voice heard.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because the protection of human rights always has my full support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the epp group resolution on the situation in burundi. the ppe group condemns all violations of human rights and calls on all parties concerned to stop all violence. the group also expresses deep concern at the continued exodus of refugees to neighbouring countries and calls on the european commission and the member states to suspend all political, military and governmental support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i think it appropriately underlines our concern about the difficult situation that has arisen in burundi. president nkurunziza's decision to run for a third term in the general elections has caused great dissatisfaction among the opposition, who have started to rebel and protest against the outgoing president as they consider his candidacy unconstitutional. the situation reached a climax on 13 may when a group of soldiers, led by general niyombare, attempted a coup d'état, taking advantage of the president's absence. despite the coup being swiftly reversed by nkurunziza's return home, violence in the country has not ceased and the repression of protests has already caused over 70 deaths and the flight of over 120,000 residents to neighbouring countries, with the high risk of a domino effect. in the context of a serious economic crisis such as that in burundi, one of the poorest countries in the world, it is important that all parties concerned find a peaceful and lasting solution, in order to respect the arusha agreement and the constitution, in order to resume a democratic process that goes beyond personal interests and to the benefit of the people of burundi.
in writing. ‒ the decision of the burundian government to hold new elections despite the critical political and security situation has aggravated an already complex political and humanitarian situation in burundi and the surrounding region. i am aware of the role of the international community in the region as guarantor of the arusha accords and that institutions such as the international criminal court are very important in the conduct of independent investigations into the violence and crimes committed in burundi. i therefore believe that only through dialogue with the burundian government can a lasting political solution be found in the interests of the security and democracy of that country, and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the political and humanitarian situation in burundi has deteriorated dramatically in recent months and, as many non-governmental organizations have reported, the protests have been triggered by president pierre nkurunziza's announced decision to run for a third term, contrary to the country's constitutional charter. tensions have increased, forcing more than 130,000 people to flee to neighbouring countries and creating further instability in an already fragile region, prompting the government to postpone the upcoming elections. the resolution, for which i voted in favour, calls on the parties concerned to respect the commitments they have made in the framework of long-standing international and regional treaties, recalling that there can be no impunity for those responsible for serious human rights violations.
in writing. ‒ the political and social situation in burundi has worsened further since the political elections on 29 june, when president pierre nkurunziza announced that he would run for a third term. the re-election would not respect the arusha agreements signed between the hutu and tutsi ethnic groups in 2000, which were intended to end the bloody seven-year civil war that has claimed more than 300,000 lives. according to the country's constitution, each president can be elected for only two terms, so the re-election of president nkurunziza would be against the constitution. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i hope that a solution can be found to the political crisis in burundi.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the resolution calling for an immediate end to violence and political intimidation against the opposition and for the immediate disarmament of all armed youth groups allied to political parties.
in writing. ‒ by supporting this resolution, parliament expresses its utter disapproval of the decision of the burundian government to hold presidential elections. president nkurunziza's third term runs counter to the spirit of article 96 of the burundian constitution and is in open violation of the arusha peace and reconciliation agreement which stipulates that a president can only serve two terms. the june 29 election was already held in a climate of intimidation, violence and the restriction of the main fundamental freedoms of the opposition and civil society, including freedom of expression and information. the situation is not improving, but is worsening day by day, both politically and humanitarianally, in burundi and the surrounding region. we are calling for the postponement of the presidential elections on 15 july in the interests of the security and democracy of the burundian people. we call for those responsible for acts of violence and repression to be subject to targeted restrictive measures, including asset freezes, as well as visa and travel bans.
in writing. ‒ burundi, according to the global hunger index, is one of the world's hungriest countries. the difficult political situation and recent violence are preventing normal development of the country with its neighbours. the eu has already allocated €1.5 million in humanitarian aid. i thank my colleagues in the ecr group for their analysis of the events taking place in burundi.
in writing. ‒ the debate on the situation in burundi took place during the june plenary session following the attempted coup d'état on 13 may. despite the coup's failure, burundi remains a turbulent and tense environment. the eu condemns the attempted coup d'état, stands ready to contribute to a return to stability and calls on all parties concerned in burundi to engage sincerely in dialogue in a spirit of compromise and reconciliation. in support of the union's position, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the commemoration of srebrenica is balanced and acceptable, which is why i supported it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ next 11 july marks the 20th anniversary of the srebrenica massacre, which led to the deaths of over 8 000 bosnian muslim men and women and was defined by the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia as an act of genocide. it is imperative for the european union to pass on the memory of this tragedy and to commit itself to ensuring that such horrendous crimes are not repeated. the resolution i have signed calls for the european union to continue its efforts to bring the countries and peoples of the balkan region closer together, so as to ensure a more stable future from today. policies for economic development, culture and education have a key role to play in supporting a process aimed at ensuring peace, human rights and inter-religious debate in an area where difficult relationships and delicate balances undermine the unity of civil society itself. the european union must be ready to support this work of reconciliation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is essential that tragedies such as the srebrenica genocide are commemorated, so that we never forget the horrors and atrocities that have been committed in the past, and so that they are never repeated in the future. it is our duty as a bastion of democracy and tolerance to be the bearers of this message of peace.
in writing. ‒ reconciliation needs justice to be possible and justice needs truth to be authentic. bosnia-herzegovina still needs reconciliation, justice and truth today. what happened in srebrenica 20 years ago is an indelible stain on our european conscience: there is no justification for what was the worst crime committed in europe since the end of the second world war. the coordinated, systematic, planned slaughter of thousands of men, women and children from above can only be described in one word: it was genocide. if the union were to ignore a fact of such moral and political gravity which took place so close to the capitals of our member states, it would betray the fundamental principle of the process of reconciliation itself: the will to ban war and ethnic and religious conflicts forever. we have a moral obligation to ensure truth and justice for the victims and we cannot accept that those responsible for the massacre are still unpunished: we must therefore support the association of mothers of the srebrenica and zepa enclaves and all those who work tirelessly to honour the memory of the people killed and to ensure that their killers are brought to justice.
in writing. - i vote for it. such a tragic event deserves a fitting memory.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution on the commemoration of srebrenica. the 20th anniversary of the genocide and ethnic cleansing that took place in srebrenica during the bosnian war by the army of republika srpska under the command of general ratko mladić and the commander-in-chief of the then president of republika srpska radovan karadžić reminds us of the danger of extreme forms of nationalism and intolerance in society, especially in times of war. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution which, in addition to commemorating and honouring all the victims of the atrocities in srebrenica and expressing its closeness to the families of the victims, called on the european union and the international community to commit themselves to preventing and punishing genocide and crimes against humanity. i hope that this moment of reflection will enable all the countries of the western balkans to acknowledge the past with the aim of continuing the process of reconciliation in the hope of a better future for all the citizens of the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report commemorating the srebrenica massacre, a dark chapter in human history that is worth remembering twenty years later.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution on the commemoration of the srebrenica massacre. 11 july 2015 marks the anniversary of the genocide in which 8,000 muslim men were executed by the serbian army under the command of general ratko mladić, operating under the authority of then president of republika srpska radovan karadžić. the massacre has been recognized as genocide by both the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia and the international court of justice. the resolution commemorates the victims of the genocide (1 800 of whom are still unidentified), reaffirms the eu's commitment to bosnia and herzegovina and notes that regional cooperation and the process of european integration are the most appropriate approaches to promoting reconciliation in the region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal calling for the commemoration of the srebrenica genocide on the occasion of its 20th anniversary, as i am convinced that one of the main drivers of european integration now, as then, is the firm condemnation of incidents like this and the strong will to prevent their recurrence. in srebrenica, more than 8,000 muslim men and boys were summarily executed in an area which was under the control of the un protection force and which should have been a safe place for them to find protection. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the illegal trade in human beings. thousands of families live in ignorance of what happened to their relatives, despite the efforts made in fact the bodies of 1,200 men from srebrenica have not yet been located and identified. the commemoration of the greatest war crime committed in europe since the end of the second world war is the least we can do for the families of those who were killed and for the survivors. in doing so, we commit ourselves to ensuring that such atrocities never happen again and we stand against any denial, relativization or misinterpretation of this genocide.
in writing. ‒ the srebrenica genocide is a sad chapter in recent european history, which has left deep emotional wounds in the survivors and created lasting obstacles to political reconciliation between the ethnic groups in bosnia and herzegovina. the commemoration of the tragic events in srebrenica reminds us of the danger of extreme forms of nationalism and intolerance in society, which can never be considered as having finally subsided. in this context, i believe that regional cooperation and, even more so, the continuation of the accession process for bosnia-herzegovina can promote peaceful coexistence and prevent the recurrence of wars and crimes against international humanitarian law in europe. for these reasons i have voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ in july 1995, in srebrenica, a town in eastern bosnia and herzegovina, bosnian serb soldiers led by general ratko mladić massacred some 8,000 muslim men and boys. the massacre in srebrenica is the worst in europe since the end of the second world war and is considered by international law to be an act of genocide. twenty years after the terrible tragedy, i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution because i believe it is our duty to remind the whole world that destructive forces are always lurking, and that is why it is essential to encourage more of our societies to affirm a culture of compassion and solidarity.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it commemorates the victims of the srebrenica genocide and the atrocities committed during the wars in the territory of the former yugoslavia and expresses its solidarity with the families of the victims. the universal declaration of human rights, the european convention for the protection of human rights and the international covenant on civil and political rights all recognize the right to life of every individual. this right was brutally violated in the case of more than 8,000 muslim men and boys who were summarily executed by bosnian serb forces on 11 july 1995 in the bosnian town of srebrenica, which had been declared a un protected area. in addition, some 30 000 women, children and elderly people were forcibly expelled and a large number of women were raped in a large-scale ethnic cleansing operation which made srebrenica the worst war crime in europe since the end of the second world war. i therefore find the decision by bosnia-herzegovina to declare 11 july a day of national mourning in bosnia-herzegovina to be a good one and i hope that the un will adopt a resolution commemorating the srebrenica genocide as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the resolution condemning the perpetrators of this sad chapter in recent european history.
in writing. ‒ the srebrenica massacre is a page of history that is still open and burning. twenty years later, there are still trials going on and they need to continue in order to establish the truth of the facts. we must not be afraid to face up to reality, as we have seen with the recent armenian genocide, that time not only does not help heal wounds but risks making them more and more acute. it is a good thing that parliament has spoken today to remember what happened, and we hope that this debate will help to heal the wounds of the past and contribute to a peaceful future.
in writing. ‒ i could only vote in favour of the joint resolution on the srebrenica genocide on the eve of the sad twentieth anniversary of the tragedy. what happened in srebrenica is one of the most dramatic pages in the history of the european continent after the second world war and still leaves a deep and open wound in the memory of the victims and their loved ones. the deportation and massacre of thousands of men, boys, old people and children and the systematic rape of women and girls as a weapon to spread fear among civilians can only have one name, namely genocide, on which there can be no different interpretations. i join in the strongest and most total condemnation of the genocide in srebrenica and i hope that in the future the most incisive intervention by european and international actors will prevent and prevent the escalation of violence which has led to such a tragedy for humanity. i call for greater awareness on the part of the bosnian authorities so that they can recognise the mistakes of the past and on this basis rebuild the ground for reconciliation between the different components of the bosnian people.
in writing. ‒ how can one deny, relativize, misinterpret what happened in srebrenica only twenty years ago? we have witnessed a genocide on our doorstep which has claimed the lives of over 8,000 men and boys, an ethnic cleansing operation which has seen 30,000 women, children and elderly people forcibly expelled from their town, which has seen the worst violations of human rights, especially against women and girls. yet there are still those who, among the main responsible for the maintenance of international peace and security, are not able to adopt a resolution commemorating the genocide. today, as this house commemorates and honours the victims of srebrenica, we pledge that such atrocities will never be repeated. our thoughts are with the families of the victims, especially those who still do not know the fate of their loved ones after 20 years. i express my admiration and support for the many organizations which carry out awareness campaigns and fight every day for the process of reconciliation between all the citizens of the country. i would like to thank in particular the mothers of the srebrenica and žepa enclaves.
in writing. ‒ 11 july 2015 marked the 20th anniversary of the genocide and ethnic cleansing that took place in srebrenica during the bosnian war. i believe that the european union has a duty to reiterate its deep disappointment at actions which violate human dignity. i particularly appreciated the reference in the document to the need to cultivate peace and to promote human rights and interreligious tolerance within the community's borders, with a view to preventing further harmful events.
in writing. ‒ on 11 july 1995, the worst war crime in europe since the end of the second world war was committed in the bosnian town of srebrenica, which was declared a un protected area: 8,000 muslim men and boys were brutally slaughtered by bosnian serb troops in an act of ethnic cleansing. not only that. some 30,000 women and children and the elderly were deported, and a large number of women were raped. the massacre, which was recognised as genocide by the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia, left deep wounds that have affected the lives of survivors and created lasting obstacles to the process of political reconciliation between ethnic groups in bosnia and herzegovina. the european parliament has a moral and political duty to commemorate and honour the victims of the srebrenica massacre and to solemnly proclaim that such heinous crimes must never be repeated. it is therefore important that religious authorities, civil society, art, culture, media and education systems promote a proper understanding of the atrocities perpetrated in srebrenica, raise awareness of the need to cultivate peace, and promote human rights and respect between religions, so as to lay a solid foundation for a better future for all citizens of the balkan area.
in writing. ‒ considering that the srebrenica massacre has been recognised as genocide by the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia (icty) and that bosnian serb forces have committed multiple violations of the geneva convention against the civilian population, i hope that the political representatives of bosnia and herzegovina will acknowledge the past in order to establish a fruitful collaboration for a better future for all the citizens of the country, and i hope that such atrocities will not happen again.
in writing. ‒ on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the brutal massacre of 8,000 men and boys in the bosnian town of srebrenica, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the commemoration of this sad tragedy. what happened in srebrenica has been recognised as one of the worst war crimes in europe since world war ii, with martin schulz declaring it a "collective failure" of europe, a clear sign that the mistakes of the past are often too easily forgotten.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think the assumption we have to make when we talk about the situation in cambodia is that we are the main funder of all the development projects under way in cambodia and we have often and willingly used cambodian ngos to carry out these kinds of development initiatives. so it seems clear to me that the problem exists and it is a big problem, because if this law is passed which is going to restrict in a very incisive way the freedom of trade union, of organization and of association, it will undermine what is the main means at our disposal to create development in cambodia. the resolution clearly aims to prevent this law from being passed, because it would set the country back 100 years, and seeks to continue, through dialogue, to keep alive development projects that can guarantee cambodia a better future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a triple attack, ladies and gentlemen, an attack on freedom and basic human rights, on international organizations and on trade union rights. hun sen, the cambodian prime minister, is increasingly pointing towards an authoritarian turn. this law, unfortunately, is the most striking demonstration of this, along with the famous draft law on cybercrime, whose text is still unknown but which, on the same false line, will also affect freedom of expression online. we, as the main donor, can expect a lot from cambodia, but we must also expect a lot from ourselves to ensure that our trade policy is consistent and that our multinationals do not take over cambodian land by supporting authoritarian measures of this kind. the covenant on civil and political rights reminds us that the freedoms of expression, association and assembly are non-negotiable. we therefore call for strong and concrete action by the commission, calling on the cambodian government to withdraw from this initiative immediately.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you commissioner, the situation in the democratic republic of congo is very similar to that in burundi, which we have already mentioned: activists are imprisoned, and those who oppose the government or the president's will to renew their government mandate indefinitely end up disappearing or being imprisoned. it is clear that we are expressing our full support for the activists and calling on the kinshasa government to release immediately the two boys who have been arrested. i think that, as far as the democratic republic of congo is concerned, we must remind the government of the commitments it has made under the cotonou agreement and exert as much pressure as possible to make this happen.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, yves makwambala, fred bauma: the commission has not yet decided on the matter. the struggle of the congolese youth must also be ours, otherwise, colleagues, i am sorry, it makes no sense to award prizes like the sakharov to mukwege in this house and then forget about it. it is the 20th anniversary of the rwandan genocide and there are still violent conflicts in many sub-saharan countries and i am thinking of potential ones like burundi. the two activists were arrested simply because they wanted to exercise freedom of expression, freedom of assembly. 425 bodies are found in a mass grave in fula fula and they are probably other young people, other political opponents. we must ensure, as mr nart said earlier, that the cotonou agreements and all other international commitments are not left as a dead letter. otherwise, we'll be running around on our own. i want the words of fred bauma to be heard in this house, when he said: 'we will never accept that the train of freedom and democracy, which is already on its way in our country, is stopped by anyone. we have committed ourselves as young citizens to the advent of democracy in our country and nothing will stop us, not even arbitrary arrests". we don't have to stop either. we must not let the democratic aspirations of the congolese youth die.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, many bahraini men who have joined terrorism and isis come from the security establishment and these institutions have been their first ideological incubator. this is the tweet by nabeel rajad, who was jailed in january. we know very well that in 2011 bahrain was one of the countries that gave birth to the so-called arab spring, from which those movements were born that tried to bring freedom of expression, freedom of demonstration and freedom to oppose those who are the real regimes. fellas, let's face it, this is a good time. it is no coincidence that the ecr and the epp do not support this resolution. there is a very complicit silence on the part of some countries of the european union, first of all the united kingdom, which has quite advantageous trade agreements with bahrain and has no intention of creating enmity and problems between them. it is very sad to see that even some of my colleagues in this very crowded house are doing the same. so i hope they will change their minds and support the resolution, as mr smith has said.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, nabeel rajab, imprisoned for the umpteenth time, and shortly after visiting the subcommittee on human rights in this european parliament. this imprisonment is an insult to the dignity of this parliament and an insult to those european values which we represent and protect. we cannot remain silent on this subject and this urgency, the very serious situation in which the whole of bahrain finds itself: the fact that 70% of the shia population is effectively excluded from the administration and institutions of power; the fact that the royal house has concentrated power by preventing the normal exercise of institutional freedoms. we cannot allow this state, the only one in the gulf where there have been some forms of protest, to become yet another battleground between iran and saudi arabia. i say, ladies and gentlemen, that the principle of conditionality for the european union must be a categorical imperative and not an optional one. our partners must respect it, otherwise they are no longer our partners and all the groups in this parliament must say so and should vote for this resolution. nabeel must be released and come back to see us here in strasbourg. nabeel is free, bahrain is democratic!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in bahrain is particularly worrying, as it is becoming increasingly difficult to fight for human rights there. according to a report by the observatory for the protection of human rights, at least 97 people have died since 2011 as a result of torture and ill-treatment during detention. the same report highlights that as many as 10 human rights defenders in bahrain have been harassed, tried and detained without due cause in the last 4 years. this includes nabeel rajab, president of the bahrain centre for human rights, who has been in prison almost continuously since 2012 on a series of unfounded charges, including accusing a public institution of criticizing the merger of bahraini security forces with isis in a tweet. rajab, despite the legal persecution, continued to denounce and is now facing another ten years in prison for writing an article reporting the ongoing violence suffered by over 2000 inmates in jaw, bahrain's toughest prison. rajab is just the most egregious case: many other people are fighting for justice and are treated as criminals by a government that does not respect human rights.
the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr glinne, on behalf of the socialist group. the freedom of religion, conscience and belief. they are accused in their own country, sudan, of the worst crimes, subjected to inhuman and degrading treatment. and if they are found guilty, they will be sentenced to death. we call for the immediate and unconditional release of the two priests and for an end to all forms of human rights violations and all forms of persecution and intimidation against the christian communities. we are moving away from the logic of instrumentalizing religion for political purposes and use. we can no longer tolerate regimes which violate the free exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms, even in open violation of international treaties ratified and signed, and even those regimes which provide for the death penalty. the universal moratorium on the death penalty, aimed at its complete abolition, remains one of our main objectives. i would like to express our support for the work of civil society, humanitarian organisations and opposition parties.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the image of the little boy aylan kurdi, found dead on the beaches of turkey, is the symbol of a denied right: the right to life. i wondered whether i should bring the image of little aylan here to the plenary to see the deaths that europe is also causing, but then i felt it was not appropriate to respect his memory and i preferred not to display it publicly. you see, colleagues, if the sight of images like aylan's had effects that went beyond indignation, anger, pain, perhaps today we would see in that body a sacrificial victim, a martyr, worth at least protecting and saving many other innocent people. but history teaches us that this has never been the case and, alas, it will not be the case this time either, because once the emotional wave has passed, europe will return to dealing with these rights with the indolence and myopia that has characterized it so far. immigration is just one example. every day we witness stories of denied rights, and we don't have to go beyond europe's borders to find them: children born with cancer due to toxic waste and illegal landfills, 122 million poor people, many of whom have no income from citizenship and therefore no means to survive, austerity measures that impose cuts in health and welfare, leading to the suspension of the supply of medicines in public pharmacies or even the closure of hospitals. we are talking about predictable stories, stories that could have been avoided if only the anger and indignation that we feel in the face of such examples were translated into reaction, into a driving force to change this europe, so as to prevent new and further violations of fundamental rights. another europe is possible to the extent that an alternative is wanted. and we must not be left to the imagination to search for ideal examples. there is another, real face of a europe of solidarity, of fraternal acceptance, of a commitment to protect the best interests of the child, of the social inclusion of minorities, of the daily struggle to guarantee formal and substantial equality, of the protection of working mothers, of respect for the ideas of others, of tolerance for all creeds. a europe that denounces injustices and refuses to hide behind the hypocrisy of a human rights protection recognized only in the charter or in the treaties. it is to this europe that we must look again, and these are the examples which must guide the work of those who, like us today, are debating whether the level of protection afforded to fundamental rights in europe should be improved. we are the guardians and guarantors of the rights and values which are the basis of this community and which legitimize the existence of the european union itself. every day we see blatant violations of fundamental rights all over europe, and yet nothing is done to stop or prevent them. so, we're hypocrites, we're cowards and we're complicit. the proposals put forward in the report are therefore aimed at ensuring greater control and greater interaction with the public: the european parliament has also been asked to make a statement on the situation in the member states. this is not an inquisition, nor is it a question of going beyond the principle of subsidiarity: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think that was one of the most discussed issues in the meetings with the shadow rapporteurs: i hope that the proposal for greater transparency will not frighten anyone and that we will decide together to improve the lot of the european citizens. i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the opinions of the other committees and all the other shadow rapporteurs, with whom we have carried out a very demanding but also very exciting work. be courageous . let us build a europe of rights now.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank my colleague, mrs laura ferrara, for the excellent and very commendable work she has done in the libe committee on this report. the protection of women's rights is of course a major factor in the respect for fundamental human rights. in the femm committee i was rapporteur for the draft opinion on the report which we are voting on tomorrow, and in our report we have dealt in particular with the many violations and forms of discrimination which women are still suffering in europe and the world today. i am referring to all the physical, sexual and psychological violence against women, child abuse, harassment and persecution that often also occurs through the distorted and improper use of new technologies and the internet. the european union must make a greater effort. we cannot continue to stand by and watch the continuing femicide, honour killings, homophobia and all other forms of discrimination, whether in everyday life or in the workplace, in politics and in decision-making. we therefore hope that new and more effective measures will be taken to strengthen prevention, ensure protection and punish those who commit crimes. only then can we guarantee real freedom of choice for women and equal treatment with men.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that even in this debate i find a certain hypocrisy on the part of this parliament and the european institutions, because they want to talk about fundamental rights, but i cannot see what fundamental rights we can guarantee to other minorities at a time when we are struggling to guarantee fundamental rights, for example: we are not able to guarantee the right to work to many young people, in italy we have over 25% of young people unemployed, we are not able to guarantee that a family can have children, because, obviously, there is this difficulty, you can't have more children and we are dying out, you know very well. but above all, i find hypocrisy in the fact that the european union has so often endorsed things in the rest of the world that have not guaranteed fundamental rights in the rest of the world, for example, the war in libya. who caused it, after all? so we're thinking about basic rights here, when we've created disasters? but not just in libya. let us also think about syria, now there is the refugee problem. but someone has responsibilities. we have given the nobel peace prize to a us president and he has some responsibility in syria. or we want to talk about when we do business with saudi arabia, which is certainly not a state that guarantees fundamental rights, or with china. i mean, i think maybe we should take a little soul-searching and see what we really want to do instead of filling out paper sheets.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of method, since the honourable member has said 'we do not criticize' and 'our alternative motion is neither better nor worse, it is different', i would advise and ask the honourable member: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. because i think there are appropriate places, this is an own-initiative report. you can do the same with your group and then in parliament the plenary will decide on your report or that of your party. i think that is a lack of respect for the work of mrs ferrara.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner timmermans, i thank mrs ferrara for her report. i believe that the need to establish an effective mechanism for the protection of fundamental rights in the eu, capable of preventing possible violations, which unfortunately sometimes also occur in the member states, contrary to the principles contained in the charter of rights, is more evident today than ever. i therefore support the idea of establishing a permanent process of in-depth monitoring of the situation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in all member states in order to make up for the shortcomings of the current instruments of protection. moreover, at this historic juncture, when europe is facing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis, with hundreds of thousands of migrants pressing on our borders, we cannot forget, i believe, that the fundamental principles of the union enshrined in the charter of rights and included among the objectives of the eu's external action require us to ensure the dignified treatment and reception of all migrants, regardless of their formal status as refugees and asylum seekers, and also require us to pay particular attention to the most vulnerable people, and i am referring to children. we have mentioned little aylan at the beginning of our debate, but i am also referring to the many unaccompanied minors, who are even more helpless victims of the traffickers of criminal organizations. the report by my colleague is very specific and calls for urgent action on this matter and i hope that it will be adopted as soon as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mrs laura ferrara on her excellent work, which she has done with passion, with commitment, with great technical knowledge, and which has resulted in a truly comprehensive report. it is also an ambitious report, because when you realise that there are problems within the european union, there are human rights violations within the european union, and then you try to create monitoring mechanisms, control mechanisms, mechanisms which can actually improve the situation of fundamental rights within the european union. i expect both commissioner timmermans and my colleagues, especially those of the people's party, to support the will of a young colleague to improve the situation of fundamental rights in europe. i would therefore appeal to those who have not even read the report and who are simply listening to the party voice, a voice from above, which says to vote against, to rely on another report, read it, and look, if you want a better europe, to support the report by my colleague laura ferrara.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that mrs ferrara's report is not only an excellent piece of work and that not only has she called on the members of this parliament to act with courage, but i think that a proper act is necessary, because fundamental rights must be claimed and we are in a position to do so. we have a responsibility to demand rights for those who have no voice to demand them, because that is the task of us 751 members of this parliament. i believe that an act of courage is sometimes risking your life in pursuit of something else, an act of duty is giving a chance at life to those who don't have that chance. i think that this parliament very often sees its voice ignored by institutions which are not democratically elected by the citizens and to come out divided on such an important report would give even less strength to our action. so i appeal to each of these colleagues to support mrs ferrara's report with strength and conviction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the speeches we have had today on the excellent report by mrs ferrara, for which i am grateful, have been very much focused on the subject of migrants, as was to be expected. i would like to focus instead on the aspect that may seem marginal in these hours, these days, but that has a big role in the report which is the aspect of rights, the protection of lesbian, bisexual, transgender and intersex people. what this report does is to put our parliament, the european parliament, as a beacon in the fight against the excessive discrimination that exists, the abuse, the lack of rights and protection of lgbt people. this report is parliament's interpretation of the changes taking place in europe. it also underlines - i would say, if i may translate the words of the report - our role as politicians who are close to the people, and it must be a more human role than it has been in recent months, in recent years, in trying to take care of the lives of the people. the fight against homotransphobia, mr president, as the report emphasizes, means fighting the many fears that pervade our europe, and which in this house, unfortunately, are very well represented and often find a political outlet.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on the fundamental rights of the european union is a key one, because europe is called upon to demonstrate explicitly at this very moment that the statements of its founding principles are still sound and worthy of belief. we are in fact still witnessing, inexorably, numerous violations of fundamental rights, as evidenced by the judgments of the european court of human rights. i am thinking of violence against women, which is sadly the most widespread in the european union, but also of the situation of children. according to who, at least 850 youths under the age of 15 die as a result of abuse. i congratulate mrs ferrara on her excellent work, but we cannot ignore in this debate what is happening at the doorstep of the european union in these hours. i think that this document is likely to be nothing but a sign of good intentions if we fail, each one of us individually, to take responsibility first of all for overcoming the emergency of these hours, avoiding the suspension of those fundamental rights which form the backbone of the union, such as barbed wire walls and the marking of human beings.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank my colleague, mrs laura ferrara, for the commitment and the great passion with which she has dealt with this report on behalf of the whole delegation of the five star movement. i will touch on subjects that have been little touched upon in this discussion: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sorry, commissioner, but unfortunately the efforts and instruments in the field have not been nearly enough. any form of tolerance - involuntary or voluntary - blindness and indifference, is intolerable, indeed it is complicit! i would like to see this report, this vote, send a clear message to the house: the real european values are those which cannot be deposited in a current account, because they have no price and no political colour. remind your conscience of that when you press that button tomorrow and do the right thing!
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner timmermans, thank you to all the members who have spoken in this debate. i think that, despite the diversity of some of the positions, it has become clear that fundamental rights are of great importance to all members, regardless of their political colour. i would like to dwell only on a few comments, in response to a few comments, by some conservative and popular members, on the fact that there was little space for individual rights and much more space for minority rights. well, perhaps, if we look at the report a little more closely, we can see that a lot of space has been given to freedom of expression and information, women's rights, gender equality rights, the rights of minors, the rights of lgbti people, the rights of disabled people, the rights of the homeless, solidarity in the economic crisis, requiring that all legislative proposals, policies and actions of the european union, including in the economic field, have been subject to an ex ante and ex post examination of fundamental rights. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. well, i wonder: are not all rights about the person? aren't we talking about the rights of individuals? and then i would like to dwell on the new mechanism, which many people still doubt. the commission has already taken account of the existing instruments, it has referred to infringement procedures, it has referred to an automatic triggering of article 7. nevertheless, i believe that europe can be much more ambitious. we have listed several cases of violations of fundamental rights today, and i believe that this reflects the fact that the instruments available to europe today are probably not sufficient. we must be more ambitious, and ambition is about prevention, not about intervening ex post, when the violations have already been committed. the new mechanism is: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of references to this, and we are talking about the copenhagen criteria for accession countries. why not continue to apply, to refer to the same indicators for the countries that remain part of the european union, we refer to monitoring, country by country. commissioner timmermans and i conclude by paraphrasing what you yourself said commissioner timmermans any state which is confident in itself must not fear control by others, on the basis of human rights. if that is the case, then why should we not ask for an annual report on the protection of fundamental rights in each country? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i urge you to vote with conscience tomorrow and to make us the voice of the will of the european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i want to talk about the relationship between the european union or the european funds, agriculture and the mafia, which seem to be three words put together at random, but there is a great relationship between the three things, because the european commission, through the cap, the common agricultural policy, has actually financed, over the years, with a lot of money, with a boatload of money, organized crime. the mafia in sicily alone has made some 400 million euros disappear, which is not a small sum for a region that is collapsing, where the agricultural sector, which was precisely the main productive activity, is completely collapsing. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has been working on the matter for some time and that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution highlights - and i should like to say this last - the risks of suppression and violation of human rights arising from the use of new technologies, particularly the internet. it is clear from what i have said several times in the past year in two written statements on the ethics of technological innovation and electronic health, as well as in numerous questions, that this is a risk inherent in the use of these technologies. this connotation, if not properly regulated, risks making any ex post controls impossible, this is so true that in terms of human rights, even the simple use of these technologies for a noble purpose can make and indeed makes each of us more exposed and more vulnerable. the vulnus has therefore moved from a possible illegal practice to a lawful act and consequently regulation must cover all aspects, including those of common use, without neglecting the ethical questions involved. i therefore share the motion for a resolution and the call for an inclusive and responsible participation of all parties involved: governments, civil society, the private sector and users.
first vice-president of the commission.– madam president, i want to thank ms schaake for this excellent report. reading it, you sometimes get a bit of flavour of dave erus and his writings about the downsides of modern technology and the ict world. the report contains a number of very timely, pertinent and often challenging ideas and recommendations for action. the commission appreciates the strong call to the eu to step up its efforts and strengthen the link between human rights, digital freedom, development, internet governance, trade and security. this same message can also be found in the digital single market strategy recently adopted by the commission. the eu is committed to promoting human rights in all areas of its external action. nowadays, given the increasing importance of ict in our daily lives and the expansion of internet access and access to mobile telephony, the promotion of human rights online and offline and the linkage between new technologies and human rights are key to our endeavours towards promoting human rights and democracy worldwide. we therefore share the european parliament’s view that icts are key in safeguarding and fostering human rights and fundamental freedoms. we also share the concern voiced in the report that certain fundamental rights, notably the right to freedom of expression and information, the right to privacy and the protection of personal data, may be violated as a result of unlawful or arbitrary surveillance, censorship, the unlawful interception of communications, or the collection of personal data, in particular when carried out on a mass scale and not for legitimate purposes. this requires us all to unite in our efforts to protect fundamental rights. we need to promote the development of democratic oversight capabilities in order to monitor activities by intelligence and law enforcement services, lest these are used to suppress dissent and free speech. this is firmly anchored in the eu guidelines for freedom of expression online and offline, and we are highly committed to promoting these guidelines in our relations with third countries. that is also why the commission is very supportive of, and welcomes, the appointment of the united nations special rapporteur on the right to privacy. it is very important to ensure that our response to terrorist attacks does not impact negatively on fundamental rights, notably freedom of expression and information and the right to privacy. the european security agenda adopted by the commission this year has made clear, therefore, that the commission will strictly test any security measures for compliance with fundamental rights, while ensuring their effectiveness. the eu is committed to assisting human rights defenders, civil society activists, and independent journalists to use icts to fight for freedom. the eu is also active in defending media freedom and pluralism, and has launched two new independent projects within the framework of the european centre for press and media freedom, with the support of this parliament. the projects will address media freedom violations in the eu and neighbouring countries and promote action to support threatened journalists, complemented by digital training. the european union has also adopted sanctions to prevent authoritarian regimes using technologies to crack down on human rights defenders, for example in the case of syria. in addition to country-specific sanctions, the eu is reviewing its export controls to prevent exports of sensitive technologies that could be misused in violation of human rights. in december 2014 we introduced new controls on exports of intrusion software and of internet monitoring technologies, and we are further exploring options to extend export controls to rapidly evolving cyber-surveillance technologies that might be used for internet monitoring and/or telecommunication surveillance in violation of human rights. as ms schaake writes in the report, there is indeed a need to mainstream the impact of technologies on the improvement of human rights in all the eu’s external action. the commission and the external action service are working together towards this goal. icts have helped to promote freedom on a global scale, and preserving the benefits of freedom is a shared responsibility for all of us – the private sector, civil society, governments, international organisations and individuals. the european union stands, therefore, ready to reiterate its commitment to promote unhindered, uncensored and non-discriminatory access to icts.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the course of the two cycles of reform of the common agricultural policy, the rules have become more heterogeneous and complex, and it is well known that more complex rules lead to more errors. the cap's objectives can only be properly implemented by effective simplification and bureaucratization, minimising the cost of controls, which already amounts to some eur 4 billion. i have noticed that the paying agencies too often make inaccurate statements. the commission had to revise upwards the error rates reported by 42 of the 68 paying agencies. it would be appropriate to draw up proposals to sanction the paying agencies. (the president asked for a slower tone) it would be appropriate to draw up proposals to sanction paying agencies in the event of false declarations, up to the point where the commission could withdraw the recognition of paying agencies in the event of serious inaccuracies. criteria should be developed to identify the best and worst performing member states in order to implement a programme for the dissemination of best practice. in short, we need a new, rationalised cap, a cap geared to farmers. only then can we effectively achieve the objectives we set ourselves.
in writing. for a country like ours, which is made up of a peninsula, the sea is an important aspect of both social and economic life. the activities connected with the sea are therefore numerous and important, which is why they must be safeguarded. the report seems to be expressing itself in this way and also acknowledges that the specificities of the reference ecosystems in europe must be taken into account, but alongside the statements of principle it expresses ways of intervening that endanger these same ecosystems. there is no limit to mining, and therefore to drilling and oil and natural gas drilling. this shows that the contribution of scientific studies on this subject is being ignored, and that the precautionary principle, which is the basis of economic sustainability, for which we will continue to fight, is being completely ignored.
in writing. as shadow rapporteur for the s&d group on the empl committee's opinion to the itre committee, i have shared from the outset the need to fully exploit all the opportunities offered by the 'blue economy', to contribute to the sustainable use of marine resources and to stimulate growth and employment in the eu, through the creation of quality jobs in sectors such as fisheries, aquaculture, maritime transport, seabed research, biotechnology, tourism, as well as all activities that can be carried out on land such as yachting, the processing industries and integrated development of the environment, promoting the social integration of vulnerable groups and women, taking into account the environmental risks arising from any source of pollution. however, in order to turn the potential of the blue economy into real development opportunities, the commission needs to put in place actions to make access to public credit and funding more accessible to smes, to promote labour mobility and skills and to support activities linked to sustainable and responsible fishing. finally, a balance must be struck between the economic, social and environmental dimensions of a sustainable integrated maritime policy, which are often underestimated.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am glad that the commissioner is here, and i believe that this is a commitment which we are also entrusting to the commission, in cooperation with parliament. i have to thank my colleague, mrs šojdrová, she has done a very good job and we have all worked very well together. i think that to say, as we have always said, that europe needs more entrepreneurs, more innovation, creativity and more growth in small and mediumsized enterprises, this is achieved also through a focus on school curricula and the opportunities for partnerships between schools, universities and the business system, but also in education for the development of the entrepreneurial mindset and the central role that teacher training plays in this field. i think it is also a great instrument, as has been said, for a new kind of employment: one in two young people in europe aged 15-25 say they would prefer to work for themselves, but often there are no conditions to create these skills. these are transversal skills, which are not only useful for setting up a business, but also for tackling what we call 'citizenship' skills, and i believe that the qualification of teachers and a stronger alliance on this subject are very much needed, also with the european business associations.
member of the commission.– madam president. i wish first to thank the rapporteur, ms šojdrová, for her very successful report, for the valuable points and concrete proposals she makes on a topic of increasing relevance. it is not the first time that you, the parliament, and the commission have discussed this topic, and my impression is that the discussion has reached a level of maturity that will enable substantial progress. we are no longer wondering whether entrepreneurship can be taught or not: whether a classroom is a proper place to do it. no, those questions are now obsolete, and we should focus on how to improve and increase the teaching of entrepreneurship in educational institutions, including schools, and how to reach a critical mass of pupils. one crucial point captured in the report is that learning entrepreneurship is not only about setting up a business: far from it. it is about bringing education and work closer, acquiring crucial skills, and most importantly acquiring values – a sense of initiative, creativity, teamwork, resilience, the ability to learn from mistakes, and self-confidence, among others. with still unacceptably high levels of youth unemployment in the eu, teaching and spreading entrepreneurship is definitely part of the solution to reduce the skills mismatch. let me also mention the social dimension of entrepreneurship. entrepreneurship is not only for the few highly qualified students. on the contrary, it is a powerful tool that can help address social exclusion. as i said, this is not the first time we have spoken about entrepreneurship, and we must acknowledge that substantial progress has been accomplished in the last few years. this is well reflected in the council conclusions of 12 december 2014 on entrepreneurship in education. the commission has also put in place several policies to support and develop entrepreneurial skills in schools, as well as in further education and lifelong learning. let me name a few. first of all, the european institute of innovation and technology (eiit) has pioneered the integration of entrepreneurship education in the higher education curriculum. students of the eiit’s knowledge and innovation communities follow entrepreneurship and innovation-related courses in addition to their scientific education. secondly, in line with the recommendation of the report, the commission will continue to successfully upscale and support the heinnovate initiative, which the commission and the oecd launched together in 2013 to support higher education institutions in developing to become more entrepreneurial and innovative. as of today, we have some 500 european higher education institutions that have used the initiative voluntarily, and the number keeps growing. do you know that, thanks to erasmus placements, 55 000 students, one in five, benefitted from traineeships in enterprises in 2013; that the commission supports knowledge alliances which are cooperation projects between businesses and higher education institutions; or that the commission launched a project on creating companies in 20 different schools across five member states? i will stop here because the list is long and i am not here to describe what the commission has done, but rather to think about the way forward: supporting member states in improving and extending the teaching of entrepreneurship throughout the eu. the first challenge to be met, and this is well reflected in the report, concerns ict skills, a crucial sector in today’s economies, especially for youngsters. we must find ways to exploit the possibilities as effectively as possible for the benefit of young europeans. the second challenge is the recognition of entrepreneurship skills. assessing and certifying them at european level in order to allow mobility is of the essence. pilot projects exist but, once again, we must reach a critical mass and make sure that entrepreneurial skills are increasingly recognised in curricula and throughout member states. honourable members, i think we are on a good track. the commission already supports member states’ expanding and improving the teaching of entrepreneurship in schools and universities, but still more can and should be done. i hope, together with my colleagues commissioners bieńkovska and thyssen, to improve on these encouraging results in the coming years. allow me to finish by acknowledging the key role of the several ngos and enterprises – vibrant civil-society operators – who are playing a crucial role and enabling remarkable progress to be made in this field.
in writing. the european parliament's motion for a resolution on promoting the entrepreneurial spirit among young people through education and training is a subject of great interest for the growth policies we have been pursuing in recent years. the economic and financial crisis has left the european continent with deep imbalances, one of the most significant being youth unemployment. for this reason, a joint effort between european and national policies is needed to support the school and university training of young people with a view to their greater social inclusion. more than four and a half million young people are unemployed, which is unacceptable, and therefore an entrepreneurial fabric of motivated young people, who are particularly focused on innovation and research, is a key to returning to growth and reducing unemployment. in this motion for a resolution, particular emphasis is placed on the key characteristics of entrepreneurship to be developed, such as creativity, innovation, the identification of opportunities and the autonomy of thought, as key factors in building an active network of young enterprises, especially in the field of social entrepreneurship. finally, the importance of promoting female entrepreneurship is underlined in order to develop talents and skills that are key to stimulating growth in europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank mr diaconu very much for his excellent report and for the great effort he has put into it. it really captured a fundamental theme. we have therefore wanted to follow up the commission's communication with a report from parliament, mr commissioner, which means asking the commission and the council to continue this commitment to relaunch the theme of cultural heritage, which is an axis of development, an axis of new employment, an axis of a new form of intervention also with regard to investment and also, of course, has a symbolic value that escapes no one. unfortunately, it was the tragic events that reminded us, on the tenth anniversary of the unesco convention on cultural diversity, which we will be honouring in committee on 15 september, that cultural heritage is a good of humanity. it is important to take up the important lines of the report, particularly with regard to an integrated approach, which is transversal to all policies, and also brings together public and private actors, because resources are also the big issue on heritage.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mrs boylan for this important report. i come from a country, italy, where more than 27 million people voted to keep water a common good, to keep it public. yet this referendum was largely ignored, not considered. i would not like the law, the proposal for a popular initiative, the popular initiative of millions of european citizens, to have the same end. and that's why i believe it's important to support ice on water rights, and lynn boyan has done a great job in that regard. i believe that the union cannot delay any longer in recognizing what the un has already recognized as a human right: the right to drinking water. we are already late in recognising this as a right in the european union. i would add that, for the sake of democracy, for the sake of the democratic structure of the union, the commission has a duty to respect the content of the eci. i hope that the group, the intergroup of this parliament on common goods and public services, will be useful in this direction too.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like, on behalf of the commission, to thank the european parliament, and in particular, ms boylan, for the report on the follow-up to the european citizens’ initiative ‘right2water’. as the commission has made clear in its response to the initiative, water is not a commercial product like any other, but rather a heritage which must be protected, defended and treated as such. access to it cannot be taken for granted, although many people in europe do so. the commission has always underlined that an important condition for providing access to water is the preservation and protection of water resources. this is a cornerstone of eu environment policy. the eu directives on drinking water and urban wastewater treatment, as well as the water framework directive, set the standards for water and sanitation and provide the basis for integrated water resource management. as your report states, globally, access to water and sanitation is a global issue of huge importance. fifteen years on from the un millennium declaration, the statistics are still challenging: 748 million people still do not have access to safe drinking water and 2.5 billion people lack access to basic levels of sanitation. therefore i welcome sustainable development goal 6, which aims to ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all. the sdgs are at the core of the post-2015 agenda. the eu stands ready to play its full part in its implementation, both through its external action as well as its internal policies and actions, and i hope that we will be able to gather momentum with all partners to achieve universal access in the not too distant future. i wish to reaffirm the commission’s position on the importance of the human rights dimension of access to safe drinking water and sanitation, including within the eu itself. firstly, the commission recognises the importance of water as a public good. the provision of water services is in general the responsibility of the local authorities, as they are closest to the citizens. secondly, the commission has clarified the principle of neutrality. treaty rules require the eu to remain neutral in relation to national decisions governing the ownership regime for water undertakings, be it public or private. moreover, eu rules on concessions acknowledge the specificity of water. works and services concerning drinking water and sanitation have been excluded from the scope of the concessions directive, and the subsidiarity principle regarding the choice of method of water management has been fully recognised. this also applies to trade deals. no eu trade deal has ever restricted eu member states’ freedom to organise their public services – including water – the way they choose. ttip – the transatlantic trade and investment partnership – will be no different. thirdly, i re-confirm the commission’s commitment to a number of actions which will ensure that these principles remain at the heart of its policies, and i welcome the emphasis placed in the committee’s report on the importance of member states implementing eu legislation. the commission will build on existing legislation and policies to continue to increase and improve access to safe drinking water and sanitation for the whole population through environmental policies and infrastructure funding. let me now emphasise again the positive impact the citizens’ initiative has had on putting water issues high on the political agenda. we welcome your numerous calls on the commission for action. the commission is carefully considering them in the context of a number of actions, for example in the evaluation of the drinking water directive, the preparation of the water re-use initiative and the upcoming review of the water framework directive, and the ongoing dialogue with the stakeholders – including the initiators of the citizens’ initiative – on benchmarking water quality and services. to conclude, i would like to add an important element. eu water policies and activities over the past decades have allowed access to adequate sanitation and drinking water services for the large majority of eu citizens. challenges remain. member states play a big role in the implementation of eu legislation, while further targeted action by the commission is under way. we all have to play together in ensuring full compliance with eu water legislation, thus helping to ensure access to clean water and sanitation for all citizens throughout the eu. we welcome the strong support and additional calls from this house for more ambitious action, in particular to involve citizens and to provide more transparency. also, the call for access to safe drinking water and sanitation is much welcomed and will be taken into account in future commission work. as regards the european citizens’ initiative tool itself, i am pleased to note that this major innovation introduced by the lisbon treaty is now up and running and involving citizens more closely in eu agenda-setting. however, there is still clearly room for improvement. in the report on the application of regulation no 211/2011 on the citizens’ initiative published on 31 march 2015, the commission took stock of this situation after three years of application. the report identified a number of issues in the current functioning of the instrument as a basis for further discussion and reflection on how to improve it. the commission is now awaiting input from stakeholders, in particular the own initiative report of the european parliament on eci. this report will feed into the commission’s analysis on how to improve the functioning of the european citizens’ initiative and make the tool as effective as possible. the commission is looking forward to further cooperation with parliament on both these important issues: the follow-up of the right2water initiative and the evolution of the tool.
in writing. right2water is the first european citizens' initiative to have reached the minimum threshold of two million signatures for being officially submitted to the european commission. these figures are enough to give us an idea of the extent to which the issue is felt by european citizens. for this very reason, much more was expected from the commission's communication, which was disappointing and unambitious, failing to meet the specific demands of the initiative. that is why this parliament has an obligation to urge the european commission to respond with facts to the concerns raised by citizens. the commission must work as a priority on a revision of the water framework directive which recognises universal access and the human right to water, just as universal access to safe drinking water and sanitation should be recognised in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. in addition, we must be firm in saying that water and sewerage services, as services of general interest, should be excluded from the rules of the internal market and from the trade agreements that the eu is currently negotiating, such as ttip. i really hope that the commission will follow up on these requests. if it does not, the european union as such will lose credibility in the eyes of its citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, parliament has a great responsibility to shoulder today: the commission's task is to make clear to our trading partners and competitors, across the atlantic or in asia, that we are not prepared to trade the health of our citizens, our families and future generations for food of dubious origin and quality! we are well aware that the directive deals with farm animals and that our farmers are facing strong foreign competition today, due to uncontrolled practices such as cloning. but we also know that europe bases its value on the quality of its products and not on mere quantity. the question of the production and marketing within the european union of products derived from cloned animals is a matter of concern to us and one to which we must pay due attention, but without underestimating the health and welfare of animals, of their offspring and what unstable dna can do to human health. there are known cases of premature death of clones, mutilation of offspring, and poisoning of surrogate mothers who have undergone heavy hormonal and antibiotic treatments. but if we know all this, there is still doubt about the nutritional value of a cloned food, or rather a food derived from the offspring of a clone - which is what we then import from third countries - and what consequences it may have for humans after continuous administration. we are therefore called upon to protect the welfare of the citizens, to take responsibility for marketing, importing or using such food. are we ready to turn our families and future generations into guinea pigs? we are living in an age where the food system is already prone to paradoxes such as over- or under-nutrition, and we cannot continue to add to it with products that are not scientifically proven. we therefore decided in the report to exclude this practice within the union, to label products derived from clone offspring, knowing that the european commission has already prepared a system in this regard in the past. we have also decided not to allow this practice to be used for profit and for sport, as is already the case with racehorses. we should be making this europe better, not worse, by venturing into paths from which it would be difficult to return. i hope that the sensitivity which i and my colleagues have shown in dealing with this subject and in working on this report is the same as that which will guide your vote today. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to bear in mind that there are no definite studies on the use and administration of food derived from the offspring of cloned animals. you have a great responsibility today, especially to your children, to your families, to their future. you can vote today on whether to have sick children in the future and whether your children will be the guinea pigs of a few companies that will make a profit off your skin.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i agree with many colleagues here who believe that our agriculture does not really need animal cloning. our agriculture is very good at sexual reproduction of animals, and it is only there that we can finally make progress in breeding. however, we must take note that this technology is being used and accepted in other parts of the world. it is not for us to decide whether this is right or wrong. commissioner, i am very grateful to you for coming here - and i have rarely heard you do this - to question eurobarometer surveys. it's a little difficult sometimes to ask people about things they have no idea about. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and it is therefore clear that we want to ban the use of cloning in european agriculture and we do not want to have products from cloned animals on our plates. but animals are not cloned to produce cows for milk production, and they are not cloned to produce beef cattle. animals are being cloned in other parts of the world to produce seeds. that is why traceability - and i disagree with some of the speakers who have spoken before - has its limits. it's clear that we can identify cloned animals and probably the descendants of the first generation, but the third and fifth generations? what if we have a piece of cheese in the european union and then we want to see if maybe the great-great-grandfather or great-great-grandmother of a cow was a cloned animal? so i am in favour of making this fair to the consumer. thank you very much.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to reiterate my full and convinced support, as i have already expressed in the envi committee, for the work of synthesis and amendment of the commission's proposal by the rapporteurs sommer and moi, which states the clear opposition of the european parliament to animal cloning for agricultural and food purposes throughout the union. in europe we are not willing to play the guinea pig, we do not need techniques which are currently ineffective. the precautionary principle is in effect! these techniques do not provide the safety and quality standards to ensure our food supply. cloning does not protect animal welfare, and above all, the health of citizens and consumers, as the european food safety authority has repeatedly confirmed. the ban on cloning, beyond any sophistication or legal trickery, is also a great question of values and ethical principles. we are in agreement with many of our citizens, who are overwhelmingly opposed to these techniques. it is important that the proposed ban be extended to all farmed animals, including not only clones but also the importation and placing on the european market of the progeny of the farmed animals, the germinal material of all food products derived from them. mandatory traceability is essential for this. the proposal for a regulation rather than a directive. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i should like to begin by thanking mrs sommer and mr moi for their commitment to this difficult work on a subject as sensitive as animal cloning, which at first sight seems to involve only scientific aspects, but which in reality has profound ethical implications and clearly has a strong impact on public opinion which has debated and continues to debate it. the main arguments on which our position against animal cloning and its use for agricultural purposes is based are essentially two: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of animals during transport. efsa stated in 2008 and has repeatedly reiterated its position that there are serious health risks to cloned animals which often lead to their death. in fact, there are success rates of between 6 and 15% in cattle, experiences of difficult births for the offspring, of neonatal death. unfortunately, the technological progress of recent years has not brought the improvements we all expected. secondly, we cannot ignore the views of our european citizens: recent surveys have found that over 80% of european citizens are against animal cloning and an equally high percentage of consumers are against the consumption of food derived from animal clones. there are certainly parts that could be changed. our position - but i think the vote as a whole is parliament's position - should be supported.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner andriukaitis, after years of a legislative vacuum, partly due to a lack of agreement between the co-legislators, we are here to legislate on the subject of animal cloning for agricultural purposes. so first of all, a thank you to the rapporteurs for the work they have done. despite scientific evidence showing that cloned animals comply with food safety standards and do not pose a danger to human health, resistance and objections concerning animal welfare and ethical considerations remain. that is why there is a broad consensus in this house to impose a ban on the cloning of animals for agricultural purposes on european territory and on their marketing, as proposed by the european commission. however, doubts remain as to the technical feasibility of tracing offspring, in particular for animals imported from third countries. that is why, commissioner, i hope that the council and the commission will be able to define this aspect in a better and more concrete way.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am literally disgusted by the way you have used science. and you, commissioner, how dare you question a survey that has been carried out throughout europe, where more than 80% of european citizens have said that they do not want cloned food, they do not want cloning. how dare you question what the european people want? based on what? science, you mentioned it so much, you mentioned only two lines from efsa. why didn't you read all the reports they made from 2008 to 2012? they say they don't have enough data to certify that cloned animals that will become food are 100% safe, they don't even have the safety of the offspring, because the offspring, although it will be produced by normal sexual techniques, will unfortunately have cloned parents, and efsa itself says that cloning leads to genetic changes, but not in the structure of the dna, but epigenetic. so, outside, in the reprogramming phase, a very delicate phase that is subject to external factors such as the cloning technique may bring. we have no scientific data that these foods from genetically modified animals are safe. you have no right to use us as guinea pigs! today we cannot afford to put the health and safety of our children on the backs of your economic interests and your profits! who does he owe favors to? why don't you listen to the citizens? we in parliament are here to bring their voices, not your economic interests.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the tragic events of our time show that national borders are no longer the limits of a single state, but constitute the external frontier of the european union as a whole. this is especially true of trade. take the case of xylella. the epidemic now raging in southern italy, in puglia, was spread by plants imported into europe at the port of rotterdam. what does that mean? that decisions taken in a single port, in a single passage, can have repercussions throughout the european territory: false declarations as to the origin of the imported goods; false designations of types; abuse of the transitional arrangements. these are all illegal practices by which low-quality products are introduced into the union. low-quality products that evade controls and security measures, deceptive products that compete with local products on our store shelves, counterfeit products that penetrate through stretches of our customs network. we have a duty to protect genuine products, local products, because they represent quality, history, traditions, jobs and social welfare. the rules are there to protect us, but they must be applied seriously, effectively and above all consistently. so we welcome these tools which enable the various national authorities responsible to monitor and verify what is coming into europe, to exchange information and best practice more effectively. this will give a considerable impetus to the interpretation of community rules without any doubt or uncertainty, and will help us to ensure that the borders of the european union represent a real wall for all those who would like to do illegal business.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this regulation is the result of important work on a fundamental subject, namely the strengthening of the european internal market, which is something we are fighting for every day. these rules will actually improve the detection, investigation and prevention of customs fraud, increase the exchange of information and available evidence, and, in my view, make the system even more effective. two aspects in my view deserve to be highlighted: firstly, this regulation provides customs officials with new means of verifying whether the declared origin of the goods is consistent with the actual journey made in the container, because this is often not the case. this is a very important aspect, both for the proper functioning of the free movement of goods and for the protection of european consumers. secondly, the member states must be able to provide the commission with the data necessary for the verification of potential fraud; this was not the case before, as the documentation was carried out only by economic operators. the negotiations were long and complex, but i think we can all be satisfied today with the work that this legislation has produced, and i congratulate all those who have worked towards this objective because the result has been focused.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mrs jaakonsaari for her excellent work on this complex and difficult subject, which has been met with much resistance, but the conclusion is an important one for the many reasons which have already been mentioned in the debate. i would like to return briefly to three aspects which i consider to be the most significant. the first, of course, is consumer certainty: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the products are not altered or counterfeited, and that the products are not presented in a way that is different from what they are perceived to be. the second theme concerns competition between companies too, all counterfeiting has an immediate, almost automatic effect, altering relations between companies, between those who behave honestly, produce according to the rules, respect them and those who, on the other hand, put second-level products on the market, do so through alteration processes that lead to negative consequences, both on the people who then consume, but also on the economic relations between companies. finally, there is one aspect that i would not like to be forgotten, and that is the contrast with crime: where there is counterfeiting, there is normally the presence of illegal activity that fuels crime. so anything that is transparent, anything that is compliant, also helps to fight crime.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the amendments to regulation 515 of 1997 are only apparently technical, but they have a significant political value in the current international economic and social context. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud and abuse of customs legislation, and these are putting a quality production system such as the european one at risk every day. all this requires greater attention and control on the part of europe, in order to guarantee consumers safe products and fair and fair competition for businesses, as we are being asked to do, even at this hour, by the agricultural world. to achieve these goals, we need to strengthen our anti-fraud mechanisms, making them more effective, more transparent, making full use of the new opportunities of digital, thus ensuring maximum traceability of goods. amendments to this regulation can be a useful part of a wider strategy to crack down on the many unfair practices in european and international trade.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like to thank the european parliament once again for its continued support on this important legislative file. i also felt encouraged by the remarks of parliament’s rapporteur, ms liisa jaakonsaari, who, when emphasising the importance of this legislative proposal, also mentioned tobacco and alcohol issues, because it is not only about internal markets but also about public health. i wish to stress that the proposed amendment is not only designed to strengthen the position and analytical capabilities of the european commission in the fight against fraud. more importantly, the proposal is designed to better equip member states to protect their own tax base, and it is a good example, speaking about subsidiary issues. i strongly believe that the compromise text, as tabled for the vote, encompasses the joint efforts of the core legislators to improve the framework which governs the detection and investigation of customs fraud. i trust that this initiative constitutes an important milestone in our common efforts to combat fraud at eu and national levels, and i hope that we will be able to successfully finalise this initiative, which is so important for improving the fight against customs-related fraud.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
that concludes the voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of ratifying the 2014 ilo protocol on the forced labour convention of 1930, which updates that convention by providing new tools to combat forced labour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the phenomenon of forced labour, including and especially in its most recent forms, must be effectively combated and that therefore the ratification of the new 2014 protocol to the international convention on forced labour of 1930 is a decisive step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ ratification of the 2014 ilo protocol on the forced labour convention updating that convention, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify, in the interest of the european union, the 2014 protocol to the international labour organisation's forced labour convention of 1930 as regards matters of social policy. i voted in favour because forced labour is a violation of human rights and an affront to the dignity of millions of women, men, girls and boys. the member states must ratify the new protocol to the forced labour convention of the international labour organisation (ilo). even today, according to ilo estimates, over 21 million people are victims of forced or compulsory labor. a very serious situation that generates 150 billion illegal profits every year. the oil research shows that women and children are once again the victims of forced labour. this odious form of exploitation, particularly in the context of trafficking in human beings, must be combated by improving protection for victims and providing access to compensation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr patrick le hyaric on the updating of the international labour organisation (ilo) protocol on forced labour. the text calls on eu governments to take measures to better protect workers in this respect. forced labour is a violation of human rights and a violation of the dignity of millions of women, men, girls and boys. the 2014 ilo protocol on the forced labour convention of 1930 has just updated the forced labour convention, providing new tools to combat forced labour and making it legally binding: the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of workers are respected and that they are protected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council decision authorising member states to ratify, in the interest of the european union, the ilo protocol of 2014 on the forced labour convention of 1930. forced labour is a violation of human rights and still affects 880 000 people in the eu and some 1.6 million across the continent. the protocol provides new tools to combat forced labour and gives the convention a binding character. in addition, the provisions of the protocol establish an obligation to prevent forced labour and provide protection for victims and access to redress mechanisms, such as compensation. the eu and its member states therefore have a duty to defend, promote and combat human rights and decent work, both within and across their borders.
in writing. ‒ i am rather puzzled when it comes to voting on reports of this kind: i have the impression that the european parliament, although it shares the content of the treaty, is wasting time and therefore money of its citizens if the council (i.e. the heads of state or government) asks the parliament to authorize the states, i.e. those represented in the council, to ratify an international treaty. i voted in favour, but my commitment is to a greater focus on what is really relevant to people.
in writing. ‒ the labour market landscape has undergone profound changes in recent decades due to the exponential growth of migration flows and the worsening of the economic crisis. often, the most disadvantaged groups such as migrants, women and children are subjected to treatment that violates their basic human rights: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area. the ilo convention on the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities, which entered into force on 1 january 2015, provides for the protection of victims of forced labour. in this regard, the protocol provides for the right of appeal and redress for those who suffer any form of exploitation or treatment that is detrimental to their dignity, and attributes binding value to such procedures.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's legislative resolution on the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify the 2014 protocol to the 1930 ilo forced labour convention as regards social policy issues is a key battle that i hope all european institutions will take forward. in fact, this draft resolution is fighting one of the most infamous phenomena still occurring on our continent and throughout the world: the spread of racism and xenophobia. forced labour. 21 million people worldwide are still victims of this abuse, which not only violates their human rights but also denies them their dignity. of these, almost 1.6 are on our continent, most of them exploited in both their physical and material dimensions. moreover, women, children and migrants are the most vulnerable groups affected by this phenomenon, which also deprives them of the possibility of improving their situation in the future. in addition to these violations of rights, there is often physical and psychological violence, which leads to fear and isolation of the victims. for this reason, i and my colleagues are voting in favour of this text to eliminate this scourge from our continent and the world.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report on the ratification of the 2014 ilo protocol on the forced labour convention.
in writing. with today's vote, the european parliament gives the green light to accession to this important convention, allowing the european union to strengthen its role as a global actor committed to a fairer and more just framework, starting with a more secure and advanced legal framework to protect labour rights and in particular the fight against and prevention of forced labour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep recommendation on the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify, in the interest of the european union, the 2014 protocol to the international labour organisation's 1930 forced labour convention as regards social policy issues, as i believe that the procedures of community law must be respected. i share parliament's position that it should give its consent to the eu commission to enter into negotiations on the 2014 protocol to the ilo forced labour convention, approving its request, without, however, implying acceptance of the misconduct of some states. it is a formal but mandatory step: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and it is not surprising that the council has taken the initiative of adopting a number of proposals. i agree with the request for the application of a protocol which is an important instrument in the fight against forced labour, since it makes the convention legally binding, calls for greater resources to be allocated to combating forced labour and aims to combat all new forms of slavery.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of mr le hyaric's proposal. the 2014 ilo protocol on forced labour has updated the forced labour convention. the new provisions strengthen the international legal framework by establishing an obligation to prevent forced labour, and by offering victims protection and access to redress mechanisms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify the 2014 protocol to the 1930 ilo forced labour convention, as regards social policy issues. the objective of this protocol is to prevent forced labour and to offer victims protection and access to redress mechanisms, prevention measures and protection. the prohibition of forced labour, which is a violation of human rights and a violation of the dignity of victims, is enshrined in eu primary law. action is therefore needed to defend these rights and decent work and to adopt measures that can best protect all workers.
in writing. ‒ the 2014 protocol recently updated the forced labour convention of 1930, giving legally binding status to existing legal instruments on combating forced labour. the awareness of the existence of new forms of exploitation, which are added to the 'classic' ones, based on violent and intimidating methods, explains why i decided to support mr le hyaric's report.
in writing. ‒ we strongly support the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify the 2014 protocol to the forced labour convention, as we consider it a serious violation of human rights and a violation of the dignity of millions of women, men, girls and boys. the european union has always been committed to combating all forms of exploitation. forced labor affects more than 21 million people and generates $150 billion a year in revenue for those who organize and control it. the most vulnerable populations, women, children, migrants, are the ones who are forced to do the worst jobs and the worst conditions: prostitution, begging, the most hard and degrading work. the violence of exploitation is accompanied by physical violence, constant psychological aggression, fear and isolation. we are therefore convinced of the need to combat these new forms of trafficking and exploitation through legislation and increasingly determined action to enforce it. this is the objective of the 2014 ilo international labour organization protocol on the forced labour convention of 1930, which we call on all member states to ratify as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ whereas forced labour is a violation of human rights; the objective of the 2014 ilo protocol to the forced labour convention of 1930 is to combat all forms of trafficking and exploitation and that this protocol calls upon the states parties to take measures to protect the rights of workers and, in view of article 4 of the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the 2014 protocol of the ilo international labour organisation on the forced labour convention of 1930 has just updated that convention, providing new tools to combat forced labour and making it legally binding. the provisions of the protocol strengthen the international legal framework by establishing the obligation to prevent forced labour and to offer victims protection and access to redress mechanisms. given the crucial importance of combating all forms of forced labour, i believe that the european parliament should strongly support the action taken by the ilo in this field. i have decided to support this assent by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ together with my group, i have decided to vote in favour of the ratification by the member states of the ilo protocol of 2014 to the forced labour convention of 1930. i am in favour of strengthening the international legal framework and of creating new means to eradicate all forms of illegal work. it is the european union's task to defend human rights, to combat forced labour and to put an end to human trafficking.
in writing. ‒ in today's vote, the european parliament voted in favour of the council decision authorising member states to ratify, in the interest of the european union, the 2014 protocol to the international labour organisation's forced labour convention of 1930 as regards social policy issues. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the type of offence alleged against mr korwin-mikke cannot be regarded as having been committed in the exercise of his duties as a member of parliament.
in writing. - i abstained.
in writing. ‒ rapporteur evelyn regner calls on the european parliament to lift the parliamentary immunity of polish mep janusz korwin-mikke (ni) following the request of the prosecutor general of the republic of poland on 13 march 2015. the city police claim that mr. korwin-mikke, while driving his car, exceeded the speed limit of 50 km/h by 32 km/h. as the alleged offence has no direct or obvious connection with the exercise of the functions of a member of the european parliament, i voted in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of janusz korwin-mikke. on 13 march 2015, the president informed, pursuant to rule 9 (1), that he had received a letter from the prosecutor general of poland requesting the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr janusz korwin-mikke. having examined the documentation, the commission considered that it should submit to the ep a decision to waive the immunity, considering that the allegations clearly have no relation to the office of mep. at the time of the incident, janusz korwin-mikke was driving his car in a residential area of piotrków trybunalski, exceeding the speed limit of 50 km/h by 32 km/h, according to a speedometer located in the area. furthermore, there is no reason to suppose that a fumus persecutionis exists.
in writing. ‒ the parliamentary committee responsible for privileges and immunities, after examining the case of the polish member's violation of the traffic code, ruled that there was no direct link between the office of parliamentarian and the offence in question, denying the immunity of the same from the judicial procedure requested. the action of a member of parliament does not constitute a political opinion or a vote expressed in the exercise of his parliamentary functions, but a fact which is entirely unrelated to the exercise of political office. i fully agree with the position of the committee of inquiry, as the case has been the subject of a thorough and transparent investigation which has found that there was no specific intention to cause political damage to the member concerned. the procedure sought against him is the proper application of national law.
in writing. ‒ i have expressed my opposition to the request for waiver of mr korwin-mikke's immunity because i believe that parliamentary immunity is not a personal privilege of a member but a guarantee of the independence of parliament and its members as a super partes institution. i remain convinced that in these cases a guarantor's line must be followed, and i shall therefore continue to vote against this type of report in defence of the institutional role conferred by this parliament.
in writing. ‒ although members of the european parliament normally enjoy immunity, it is possible to waive this privilege in any case, provided that the offence committed is not connected with the performance of the person's public duties. in this case, i think it is appropriate to proceed with a case against mr korwin-mikke, who is accused of exceeding the legal speed limit while driving his car. i have therefore decided to support this report which involves the waiver of his parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the request of the prosecutor-general of the republic of poland concerning the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr janusz korwin-mikke, i have analysed articles 8 and 9 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union; i also looked at the ep's regulation on the waiver of immunity and considered it particularly important to apply article 9 on procedures. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ on 13 march 2015, the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded to the president of parliament the request submitted by the chief of the municipal police of piotrków trybunalski on 9 march 2015 to grant the authorisation to open judicial proceedings against mr janusz korwin-mikke. the reason for such a request is a high rate of speeding while driving a motor vehicle. in accordance with rule 9 (3) of the rules of procedure, the committee on legal affairs recommends that the european parliament should waive the parliamentary immunity of mr janusz korwin-mikke. i voted in favour of the waiver of immunity so that the polish authorities can proceed with the verification of whether or not there has been a traffic offence.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in voting on this amendment which calls for the council's position to be rejected, as i consider it counterproductive to vote in favour of rejecting the agreement reached between the council and the european parliament. for our high-quality production system, cooperation between the customs authorities of the 28 member states is very important, especially in sensitive sectors such as agriculture.
in writing. ‒ cooperative customs systems are essential to our high-quality production system. it would be counterproductive to vote in favour of rejecting the agreement reached between the council and the ep.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation for the second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 515/97 on mutual assistance between the administrative authorities of the member states and cooperation between the latter and the commission to ensure the correct application of the law on customs and agricultural matters. i believe it is vitally important to facilitate the prevention, detection and repression of the many international operations which violate customs and agricultural regulations. the exchange of information needed to facilitate joint customs interventions between state administrations and the commission's anti-fraud office (olaf) should therefore be improved and speeded up. in this respect, the creation of a new centralised database, accessible to the competent national authorities, is a major step forward. the database can become an indispensable tool for preventing and combating breaches of customs legislation and protecting the security of citizens. so, also in the light of the compromise reached between parliament, the council and the commission on the type of data that can be shared, i have decided to vote in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the efdd group's amendment rejecting the council's position at first reading and therefore approve the recommendation under consideration at second reading. the measure concerns the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 515/97 with a view to creating better cooperation between the customs authorities of the member states and the european commission. the main objective is to achieve a more accurate level of transmission of shipping data by economic operators.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because i shared the objective (to have new regulations on the detection, investigation and prevention of customs fraud adopted) and the method chosen to achieve it, namely the improvement of the functioning of control systems. i particularly welcome the fact that the commission will be able to request specific data from member states to investigate fraud and also that the report keeps legislation in line with the lisbon treaty on the protection of personal data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation, which is the fruit of important work on a subject which is fundamental to strengthening the european internal market. these rules will, in fact, improve the detection, investigation and prevention of customs fraud by increasing the exchange of information and available evidence, making the system more efficient than the current system. this regulation provides customs officials with new means of verifying whether the declared origin of the goods is consistent with the journey made by the container. in addition, member states must be able to provide the commission with the data necessary for the verification of potential fraud, which was not the case before, as the records were kept by economic operators. the negotiations were long and complex, but i think we can be satisfied today with the work that has been done and with this legislation, and i congratulate all those who have worked to achieve this result.
in writing. ‒ we strongly support today, after assessing its full compliance, the council's position at first reading, which, by amending the regulation on mutual assistance between the administrative authorities of the member states, aims to ensure the necessary and indispensable correct application of customs and agricultural legislation.
in writing. ‒ in view of the rapporteur's work and position and in order to thank him for his work, i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 515/97 which considered the cooperation relationship between the customs authorities of the member states and the european commission to be unsatisfactory, in particular the proposal considered the modus operandi of transmission of shipping data by economic operators to the national authorities to be inadequate.
in writing. ‒ today's vote aims to simplify and speed up the mechanisms for combating customs fraud by reducing the bureaucratic burden. efforts have been made to improve relations of mutual assistance between the member states and the administrative authorities and also their cooperation with the commission, so as to ensure the correct application of customs and agricultural legislation. i hope that the changes to the current rules will help to combat fraud involving false declarations of origin (which lead to very high annual losses) and to avoid long bureaucratic procedures. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. the tragic events of the present day confront us with the fact that the national borders of the eu member states are no longer the boundaries of a single state, but constitute the external borders of the entire union. false declarations as to the origin of imported goods, false designations of types, abuse of the transit procedure: are illegal practices whereby low-quality products are introduced into the union by circumventing controls and security measures, and then compete with local products. products which we claim to want to protect because they represent quality, history, tradition, jobs, well-being, but which every day face the challenge of cheap imitations and counterfeits that penetrate the lengths of our customs network. the rules to protect us from these commercial aggressions already exist in part, but they must be applied seriously, effectively and uniformly. i voted in favour of this report, which is intended to give the various national authorities responsible for monitoring and verifying what is coming into europe more effective tools for exchanging information and good practice: the union's borders must be a wall for all those who would like to do business illegally.
in writing. ‒ while i am not in favour of any kind of hunting or the trade in hunting products, i understand that in some cases hunting cannot be prohibited. in this particular case, the proposal provides for the ic (indigenous community) derogation, which is also included in the un declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples. in other words, it is possible to import products from hunting by indigenous communities where this practice is an integral part of the culture and identity of the indigenous community itself. in this case, the inuit, a small population living in the arctic, rely on the consumption and trade of the fruit of their hunting. the text of the report provides for this derogation, but at the same time it lays down clear and precise rules, and it also calls on the commission to carry out studies and checks to ensure that the protection of the rights of indigenous peoples cannot be used as a cover for the importation of products from hunting for primarily commercial purposes. for these reasons, my vote was in favour.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on this legislative measure, which arises from the need to align eu rules with certain world trade organisation (wto) requirements, because it does not seem to strike a balance between the needs of inuit communities who live off these traditional forms of hunting and the legitimate demands of those who want the commercial killing of seals to be as limited as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1007/2009 because i believe it is important that the union respects the decisions of the dispute settlement body of the world trade organisation but that, at the same time, it continues to pursue its policy aimed at protecting seals and combating the most painful and destructive hunting practices for the species.
in writing. - i abstained. the commission's proposal would keep the entry of seal products into the eu banned unless the hunt is conducted by traditional methods and contributes mainly to the livelihood of local communities and is not primarily for commercial purposes.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1007/2009 on trade in seal products. in this vote, parliament strengthened the ban on trade in seal products, restricting the right to hunt seals to indigenous communities such as the inuit, and only for subsistence reasons. this measure excludes the possibility of hunting seals to protect fish stocks, which was previously permitted.
in writing. the european union has banned trade in seal products in response to legitimate animal welfare concerns. exceptionally, inuit will only be allowed to sell seal products in the eu if their hunting methods take animal welfare into account.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending basic regulation (ec) no 1007/2009 on trade in seal products. this applies both to seal products originating in the eu and to imported products. the eu has decided on a "total" ban, with only two exceptions: products from hunting by inuit or other indigenous communities (ic derogation) and products from hunting on a small scale and not for profit for the sole purpose of ensuring sustainable management of marine resources (mrm derogation). the 2009 regulation was challenged before the wto by canada and norway. the purpose of this proposal is therefore to implement the decisions taken in the wto. the new regulation amends the criteria for the ic derogation and abolishes the mrm derogation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation because i share its spirit: i am in favour of a european union which harmonizes, which breaks down barriers, but i also believe that the eu should not stifle local traditions, as long as they do not affect the internal market. i congratulate mr busoi on his excellent report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and i share its content. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the latter opted for a 'total' ban, with two main exceptions, ic (products of hunting by inuit or other indigenous communities) and mrm (products of hunting on a small scale and not for profit).
in writing. ‒ the draft legislative resolution by mr busoi expresses the european parliament's position on the amendment of regulation (ec) no 1007/2009, which already established a ban on the placing on the european internal market of products derived from seal hunting and now aims to bring european rules into line with recent wto recommendations. i strongly support the reinforcement of the general ban on trade in seal products provided for in the regulation adopted today and the further clarification of the derogation for the inuit and other indigenous communities. the regulation now makes it clear that no products from commercial seal hunting will be allowed on the internal market. this is a necessary measure to protect european consumers and to put a permanent end to commercial exploitation of seals, thus protecting a fragile species and animal welfare. at the same time, i think it is balanced to grant a specific exception for indigenous communities. the hunting of seals, which is traditionally practised by inuit and indigenous peoples and is not primarily carried out for commercial purposes, is not only an integral part of their cultural fabric and identity, but also an activity necessary for the livelihood of those communities.
in writing. ‒ in 2009, the european union banned trade in seal products. the ban, which came into force in 2010, allowed for two exceptions: one for the products of hunting by indigenous tribes and the other for hunting that ensured sustainable "management of marine resources". the amendments to the original 2009 text will remove the derogation concerning products derived from seal hunting for the protection of fish stocks. i have decided to vote in favour of this measure because it will strengthen the ban on trade in seal products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's position on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1007/2009 on trade in seal products. the total ban on trade in seal products responds to ethical and moral concerns of european citizens: the eu has therefore done well to defend this principle in international fora, before the wto dispute settlement bodies. in order to avoid circumvention of this ban, i support the decision to remove the so-called mrm derogation (which concerns the management of marine resources) in respect of small-scale non-profit hunting. i do, however, share the decision to maintain the derogation for the inuit indigenous communities, which feed on seal products and hunt seals not for commercial purposes but for livelihood and income. it is precisely to protect the originality of this activity that i support the decision to allow this community to place products on the market for economic support, by proving that the hunting has been respectful of animal welfare, accompanied by information requirements that allow european citizens to know the origin of these products.
in writing. ‒ favourable to the adoption of the text strengthening the european ban on trade in seal products. the european union is voting today to remove the derogation for seal products in order to ensure full and effective protection and welfare of animals.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament already in 2009 spoke out against the trade in seal products, both those made in eu countries and those imported, opting for a 'total' ban, with two main exceptions for products from hunting by inuit or other indigenous communities and those from hunting only on a small scale and not for profit, for the sole purpose of ensuring sustainable management of marine resources. with the regulation we are adopting today, we intend to reaffirm our commitment to ensuring that products derived from commercially hunted seals are no longer present on the european market by amending some of the derogations originally provided for. furthermore, where there is relevant evidence that the number of seals hunted or the quantity of products placed on the market is such as to confirm that the hunt has been primarily conducted for commercial purposes, we consider it necessary to empower the commission to adopt delegated acts in order to limit the quantity of products derived from such hunting that may be placed on the european market.
in writing. ‒ in view of the work done by the rapporteur and in gratitude to him, and in view of the need to strengthen penalties for trade in seal products in order to safeguard animal welfare, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ in 2009, the european union opted for a 'total' ban on trade in seal products with two main exceptions: for products of hunting by inuit and other indigenous communities (so-called ic exceptions) and for products of hunting for the sole purpose of sustainable, small-scale and non-profit management of marine resources (so-called mrm exception). the commission proposal completely removes the mrm exception from the regulation but maintains the ic exception by introducing new criteria. i believe it is of the utmost importance to ensure that traditional hunting practices are respected, as they are a valuable asset to european culture. however, the marketing of products derived from this type of hunting activity needs to be part of an international regulatory framework, in order to ensure greater respect for the environment and the life cycles of wildlife. the rapporteur supported the commission's line and a cross-party consensus was reached between the various political groups. that is why i have decided to support the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the resolution on the basic regulation on trade in seal products. i believe that both the wto decision and the compromise reached by parliament and the council, which introduces two derogations from the ban on seal products, can be respected: the ic derogation, which concerns the right of inuit and indigenous peoples to self-determination and use of their own resources, and the mrm derogation, which governs the management of marine resources in the baltic sea. i believe that we need to promote the protection of natural biodiversity and bio-economic sustainability, while respecting the traditions and culture of certain countries.
in writing. the ban on the marketing of seal products was introduced in the european union a few years ago, with only limited exceptions arising from the management of marine resources and the need for livelihood for the inuit people. the eu is rightly trying to put an end to the barbaric practice of hunting seals. the world trade organization, however, welcomed the complaints of some countries such as canada and norway, who challenged the legitimacy of such a ban as an undue restriction on free trade. it is therefore necessary to revise the legislation, on the one hand to confirm the ban and on the other to make it finally unassailable. without this revision, the legislation would have lost its effectiveness and we could have seen seal products on the european market again. i therefore vote in favour of the report, which reflects the difficult work we have done in the committee on the internal market and with the council to reach a solution which will allow the ban to remain in force, in the knowledge that the common feeling of the european citizens is in line with this battle of civilisations.
in writing. ‒ we had to take a clear and decisive stance against the cloning of animals for agricultural purposes and this report has enabled us to do so. in particular, it is noted that several studies consider the consumption of food derived from cloned animals to be dangerous for human health. this is also in view of the fact that the long-term effects of prolonged human consumption are not known, the fact that this is a relatively new practice and the limited data available. i do not think it is appropriate, therefore, for the european citizens to be the guinea pigs for the experiments. the report also highlights how, on the basis of studies carried out by efsa on cloned animals, the health and welfare of a significant proportion of clones have been compromised, often seriously and with fatal outcomes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the european union is not a single market. this is partly because of animal welfare and ethical considerations. for these reasons and because of the strong 'no' to cloning that the movement has always expressed, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which, in line with the commission's proposal, makes the ban on cloning permanent, applies to all species and also extends it to offspring and germinal material, including imports from third countries by introducing a special traceability system.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced that the cloning technique has many critical problems and that, in general, its use does not bring sufficient benefits to compensate for them. in particular, the low success rate of the procedure and the ethical dilemma posed by its use are the two most important obstacles to its introduction into the single market.
in writing. ‒ the animal cloning techniques currently in use are not sufficiently mature to allow industrial use of the technique. the high cost, high number of deaths at birth, large size of foetuses and the consequent difficulties in childbirth, together with the numerous physical anomalies and frequent health problems of cloned animals, are signs of the difficulty of mastering the cloning technique. furthermore, animal cloning frequently causes unnecessary suffering to the animals themselves and raises doubts about its complete safety for human food use. the union must protect the health of its citizens and animals and promote a culture of healthy and high-quality food. parliament also noted that 80% of european citizens oppose human cloning (eurobarometer source) must, with a strong and unanimous voice, protect the right to research and safeguard endangered species but prohibit animal cloning for food purposes and prevent trade in products derived from cloned animals or their offspring.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour: the proposal adopted makes the ban permanent, applies to all species and also extends it to offspring and germinal material, including imports from third countries by introducing a specific traceability system.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of strengthening the commission's initial proposal to ban animal cloning, including the cloning of all farmed animals, their offspring and products derived from them, including imports into the european union. we have to consider the impact on animal health, but also on human health. this vote sends a message to our trading partners that we are not willing to put our health, the health of our families and future generations at risk by using products of such dubious quality. the cloning technique is not fully developed and no further progress has been made. the mortality rate remains as high. many of the animals that are born alive, die in the first few weeks, and they die painfully. i do not think it is appropriate to allow that. the majority of eu citizens strongly oppose the consumption of food derived from cloned animals or their offspring, and disapprove of the use of cloning for agricultural purposes, due to animal welfare and general ethical considerations. the concerns of the european citizens must therefore be taken seriously.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mrs giulia moi because the parliament's text strengthens the european commission's initial proposal to ban animal cloning, including the cloning of all farmed animals, their descendants and products derived from them, including imports into the european union. the health of all european citizens and the preservation of environmental diversity must be protected by private financial interests.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal under consideration concerning the cloning of animals bred and bred for agricultural purposes. cloning is a form of asexual reproduction carried out in the laboratory where animals are generated using the genetic material of another animal's cell. the animal clone therefore shares the same genetic material as the donor. cloning for breeding purposes, which is not used in the european union, is used in countries such as the usa, canada, argentina, brazil and australia. this proposal suspends the use of cloning for agricultural purposes, the placing on the market of live animal clones and the marketing of foodstuffs, such as milk and meat, derived from cloned animals.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal for a directive because i found it too restrictive. i believe that certain innovations with a strong ethical impact should be used cum grano salis, and not stopped altogether so as not to return to the middle ages. and, above all, that practical sense should guide policy choices: i do not think that the work of breeders should be burdened by the obligation to keep additional records to certify that there are no cloned elements in the pedigree of each animal. progress cannot be stopped, but it must be governed to use it for good and not to increase bureaucracy.
in writing. i am absolutely in favour of a total ban on the marketing of animal clones, embryonic clones and food products for human consumption derived from animal clones and their offspring. it is a matter of precaution, not only of concern for possible ethical implications, but also of respect for animal health and welfare standards. the cloning technique still raises concerns, which are further exacerbated by the fact that no third country has established reliable traceability and labelling or identification and registration systems for the purpose of importing the offspring of clones or food products derived from them. furthermore, there are no international standards on sanitary and phytosanitary measures for cloning, and no scientific studies on the effects on human health of the prolonged consumption of food derived from animal cloning. finally, i can only stress the importance of taking due account of public opinion against animal cloning and the consumption of food derived from cloned animals.
in writing. ‒ the european food safety authority (efsa) has repeatedly highlighted how the health and welfare of a significant proportion of animal clones has often been seriously and lethally compromised. in particular, abnormalities in clones and the unusually large size of cloned foetuses result in difficult births and deaths at birth. i voted in favour of this measure banning the cloning of animals for food in the european union because i believe it is essential that european consumers should not risk eating food from a cloned animal or its descendants on their plates.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation because it prohibits the use and marketing of cloned animals and their offspring. we voted to make the ban on the use of cloning for the production of farm animals permanent, rather than temporary as proposed by the european commission, by means of a review clause to be used in the event that the progress of scientific research requires an update of eu legislation. to date, the success rate of experiments is only 10 percent, while the mortality rate is high and many animals are born with deformities or immune problems and then die prematurely. we also decided that the ban should apply to the marketing of products from cloned animals or their offspring and that the eu should provide for clear labelling to ensure that products are traceable. for these purposes, we have chosen the regulation as the legislative instrument, not a directive, so as to ensure that in such a sensitive matter there are the same rules in all the member states.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the amendments which the envi committee has fortunately made to the commission's text. make the ban on cloning permanent, apply it to all species and extend it to their offspring.
in writing. ‒ today's vote is an important step in the long battle that we italians have been waging for years. we are determined to uphold european food safety standards. we have shown by this text that we are not prepared to compromise, and have ruled out less restrictive measures such as labelling or the extension of the temporary moratorium. we must, however, be extremely vigilant so that the important measures adopted today are not diluted in the next steps.
in writing. i agree with the views expressed in the draft joint report of the environment and agriculture committees on animal cloning for agricultural purposes. europe will protect european food safety standards, the health of its citizens and the welfare of animals themselves by renewing its strong ban on the cloning of farm animals and the import of products derived from cloned livestock into the eu by third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's position on the european parliament and council directive banning the cloning of animals of the bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine species reared and bred for agricultural purposes. i believe that the technique of animal cloning for agricultural reproduction, which is used in the united states and other third countries, should be categorically banned in europe. this is what our citizens are asking for, concerned about their food and the quality of our products, as demonstrated by the 2010 eurobarometer survey. this is a demand from the farmers in those areas who conduct their business by combining quality and tradition. finally, the animals themselves are asking for it, given the scientific evidence showing that this technique causes placental and fetal abnormalities that result in poor well-being and pain for the mothers used for cloning or for the offspring. parliament's position states that it is firmly opposed to animal cloning for agricultural purposes, which extends to the importation of cloned animals, germinal products or products derived from cloned animals. we ask the commission to present, in the framework of official control legislation, labelling measures and control procedures to avoid the importation of these products and to ensure mandatory traceability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission's initial proposal to ban animal cloning, including the cloning of all farmed animals and products derived from them. however, such cloning will not be prohibited for purposes such as research and production of pharmaceutical products and medical devices. the aim of this report is to ban the practice on all farmed animals in order to protect the impact on animal and human health.
in writing. ‒ the controversial issue of animal cloning for agricultural purposes has always raised not only strong concerns related to health, animal welfare and consumer choice, but also ethical issues, as well as a long-term regulatory challenge. although animal cloning for food production purposes is not allowed in the european union, agricultural cloning for commercial purposes takes place in several countries including argentina, australia, brazil, canada and the united states, and may also be carried out in chile, china, new zealand and uruguay. the growing trade with these countries therefore requires new and increasingly stringent regulations due to the lack of reliable traceability and labelling, or identification and registration systems, for import purposes. in view of the recent conclusions and recommendations of the european food safety authority, which have recognised the existence of risks to animal health and welfare, we are today approving this proposal for a directive which aims to ensure regulatory consistency with the wto framework and a level playing field within the internationally regulated system.
in writing. ‒ the italian delegation of forza italia says no to the cloning of farmed animals for food production, including their derivatives. it is not only important to protect the integrity of animals, but above all the food safety of european citizens must be protected. in view of the lack of scientific studies on the safety of cloning, it is also necessary to prohibit the import of such animals from third countries where such practice is permitted, such as the united states, brazil, argentina, china, chile, etc. we reiterate our opposition to this practice on animals and we agree to regulation in all member states.
in writing. ‒ in view of the work done and in gratitude to the rapporteur, but also in view of the uncertainty of the results of cloning animals for agricultural use and the possible dangers to human health which could result from it, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to ban the cloning of farmed animals, the placing on the market of cloned embryos and the sale of products derived from cloned animals in all eu territories. i voted in favour of this report in order to avoid what i consider to be a potentially dangerous practice that is detrimental to the food security of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because i am opposed both to the cloning of farmed animals and to the marketing of food from cloned animals. i do not think it is necessary to introduce cloned animal embryos on the market. it has been demonstrated by scientific experts that asexual production causes discomfort to animals, in fact, this reproduction technique causes placental and fetal dysfunctions in animals used for reproductive purposes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that the use of cloned animals or their descendants for food purposes should be avoided in order to protect the health of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which prohibits animal cloning and, above all, prevents the entry into the food chain of the descendants of cloned animals. that is the crux of the problem. cloning is a very expensive technique; it is absurd to use it to obtain an animal to milk or slaughter. instead, it is convenient to clone a particularly productive animal to exploit its offspring commercially. it would be useless and, above all, hypocritical towards the european public, which is largely opposed to cloning, to ban cloned animals from entering the european food chain without taking care of their offspring. this practice raises three problems. first of all: the suffering of animals. the pregnancy and delivery of surrogate mothers are subject to complications; many clones never reach adulthood. second problem: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's farmers are not forced to sell their animals to third countries. finally, the third and most serious problem. putting a costly laboratory technique, such as cloning, at the basis of breeding livestock and at the basis of our food production means making us even more dependent on the big agro-biotechnology companies.
in writing. ‒ animal cloning for agricultural purposes raises not only animal health and welfare issues and consumer choice, but also ethical issues and a regulatory challenge. at present, cloning is mainly used to obtain breeding animals; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal. although animal cloning for food production does not take place in the eu, agricultural cloning for commercial purposes takes place in several countries including argentina, australia, brazil, canada and the united states and may also take place in chile, china, new zealand and uruguay, countries where cloning companies are active. as meat and milk from clone offspring and clones themselves are starting to enter the food chain, it is imperative to ensure forward-looking legislation and a level playing field in this area. it is important to note that none of the third countries has established reliable traceability and labelling, or identification and registration systems; this package, with regard to animal cloning, takes into account animal welfare concerns and ethical implications, with the aim of providing greater legal certainty to the sector concerned by 2016.
in writing. animal cloning is a controversial topic, with implications for both animal health and welfare and consumer safety. science has not yet been able to provide definite answers to these problems that can dispel doubts and perplexities. the european food safety authority has recognised the existence of animal health risks due to high mortality rates associated with cloning technology. although animal cloning for food production purposes does not occur in the eu, it does occur in countries such as argentina, australia, brazil, canada and the united states, mainly to obtain breeding animals from which to obtain heads for slaughter. as a result, meat and milk from clone offspring and clones themselves are entering the food chain and it is therefore necessary to ensure that legislation is able to regulate a new sector, which is currently subject to the general rules on the marketing of new products and new food ingredients, which takes into account the specific characteristics of cloning. i voted in favour of the proposal because the package takes due account of the concerns raised by several parties by prohibiting the introduction of reproductive material from cloned animals as well as milk and meat derived from them.
in writing. ‒ the protection of fundamental rights in the european union within the member states, although enshrined in the treaties, which are the primary source of european law with a universal character, is currently very controversial and a source of contradictions and inequalities. the report by mrs ferrara highlights a panorama of constant violations of the rights of ethnic minorities, of discrimination based on racial, xenophobic and religious intolerance. the report highlights a situation in which the european union appears to be geared towards a perspective of development and economic growth which, however, increasingly ignores phenomena of exclusion, poverty and social hardship. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. i voted in favour of the report because it proposes more concrete and more stringent measures to ensure that the existing legal instruments are fully and correctly applied. the committee also calls for a strategy of coordination between the european institutions to ensure that serious violations of fundamental rights are effectively prevented, starting with objective investigations and assessments of the good work done by the member states, leading to infringement procedures where there are justified grounds.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this absolutely biased text, which deals mainly with the rights of migrants and lgbti people without analysing the situation of the rights of european citizens who are too often ignored and trampled.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ferrara report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union 2013-2014 because the proposals put forward in the report, in addition to ensuring greater control and greater interaction with citizens, provide the tools to ensure full respect for personal, civil, political, economic and social rights. the report we have voted on today presents the right strategy for involving the union's bodies active in the field of fundamental rights, for countering situations in the member states where these rights are not respected and, finally, for changing course so that europe stops dealing with these issues with the same indolence and myopia that has always characterized it. it is important that the european union is vigilant and that its reaction to the many violations of fundamental rights in the member states is firm and decisive. the establishment of a new mechanism at european level to ensure respect for fundamental rights is certainly a step in this direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced that the protection of fundamental rights is one of the pillars of the union's mission. i particularly share the rapporteur's view that the rule of law must be strengthened, which is a first attempt to overcome the current shortcomings in preventing and resolving cases of violation of fundamental rights and the rule of law in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i vote against, the text is completely biased, it does not speak in a 360 degree about fundamental rights but above all about the rights of migrants and lgbti people. the rights violated today are much more.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union (2013-2014) on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union (2013-2014). in europe, there are still many violations of fundamental rights, as the judgments of the european court of human rights show. i am thinking of violence against women, which is the most widespread violation of fundamental rights in the eu. but also the situation of children, according to who, at least 850 children under the age of 15 die every year in europe as a result of ill-treatment. it is also necessary that those fundamental rights which are the backbone of the union are not suspended by censoring barbed wire walls and the horrible practice of marking human beings.
in writing. ‒ the report, which is intended to provide an overview of the situation of fundamental rights in 2012 and 2013, also provided an opportunity to reiterate the importance of respecting and promoting the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the rights it contains should be guaranteed to all citizens without distinction of sex, religion, sexual orientation and colour of skin, while institutional actors and non-governmental organisations report alarming examples of violation. my colleague laura ferrara has done a very good job and i voted for her.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu (2013-2014). the first part of the report proposes the establishment of an internal fundamental rights strategy for the union, while the second part of the report deals in detail with a number of violations. the ppe group, which voted against the report in committee, considered the content of the report in question to be insufficient and not in line with its prerogatives.
in writing. ‒ if we consider the contents of the charter of fundamental rights, the report is undoubtedly correct in many respects: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of fundamental rights, in particular the prevention of violations of fundamental rights in the member states, freedom of expression, data protection, the impact of the economic crisis on fundamental rights and the situation of prisons. i have nevertheless voted against the ferrara report because i think that the alternative proposal put forward by my group is more balanced and practical. i think the rapporteur has done her job well and i congratulate her, but at the same time i think that more compromise would help to widen the support. in this parliament there is never a dictatorship of the majority, but the widest possible representation of the interests at stake.
in writing. i agree that fundamental rights, human rights and equal opportunities must be guaranteed to all european citizens, but also to people belonging to national and linguistic minorities. and to protect rights properly, it is necessary to strengthen cooperation between the institutions and to take measures to monitor their implementation. i am, however, obliged to vote against this report because it introduces content which is not acceptable in terms of the priorities and interpretation of certain fundamental human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that fundamental rights are a common element of all eu citizens and a fundamental element of the european construction. i therefore support the actions mentioned in the resolution, such as: 1) strengthening actions and programmes to raise awareness of fundamental rights education and training; 2) monitoring of the respect for fundamental rights in the eu; 3) ex ante and ex post audits aimed at assessing the impact of european policies on fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union has been given the same legal effect as the treaties. the charter recognises a range of personal, civil, political, economic and social rights for all citizens living in europe. nevertheless, there are still many violations of rights taking place in the territory of the member states of the european union. this is unacceptable, and the european institutions and the member states must be firm and resolute in preventing and putting an end to these violations. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that all citizens and residents of the eu should be able to enjoy the fundamental rights enshrined in the charter without distinction of sex, religion, sexual orientation or colour.
in writing. ‒ the respect of fundamental rights for the years 2013/2014 is highlighted in this report which indicates the way forward to improve respect for fundamental rights in the coming years. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union brings together in a single text all the personal, civil, political, economic and social rights enjoyed by people in the eu. the eu institutions are bound by the rights enshrined in the charter and in october 2010 the commission adopted a strategy for the effective implementation of the charter which aims to ensure that the eu's actions in support of fundamental rights are absolutely fair. unfortunately, there are still many violations of fundamental rights in all the member states and i therefore believe that there must be a rapid and effective response from both the european institutions and the member states so that these violations can be brought to an end. i am particularly pleased to hear that there has been an increase in cases of crossborder parental abduction and i would stress the importance of the role of the european parliament's ombudsman for children who have been abducted by their parents. finally, i welcome the inclusion of the monitoring mechanism proposed by mrs ferrara, which was adopted despite the commission's opposition. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ as we have said in the past, we are against discrimination, but today we were forced to vote against this report because it clearly violates the principle of subsidiarity and interferes with matters of strictly national competence. this is frankly unacceptable and we must be clear about it, to counter the risk that these violations will become more and more serious over time.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2013 and 2014 because i believe that a just, fair and inclusive society cannot be achieved without respect for the most basic human rights. the european union is founded on the promotion of human rights, democracy and equal opportunities for all its citizens and has therefore a duty to oblige all member states to respect these values. according to the investigations promoted by the eu bodies and the many european citizens' initiatives through the petition institute, the main human rights violations are against women, children, lgbti people, the disabled and ethnic minorities, especially the roma. in this respect, the commission's communication on the new eu framework for strengthening the rule of law can be a key instrument for preventing and resolving cases of violation of fundamental rights, and i hope that this communication can be put into practice and improved in line with the suggestions made by the european parliament. i fully share the need for a common approach to the solution of the migration problem and for a harmonised system of distribution of asylum seekers between the member states.
in writing. ‒ the protection of human and fundamental rights must be the cornerstone on which european immigration policies are built. today's vote is further confirmation of this. we need more solidarity. first of all, in the search and rescue operations of those who, every day, risk their lives to reach europe to escape from conflict, hunger and persecution. but also in the eu's internal and external policies. the right to asylum is a fundamental right and with today's vote we strongly condemn all cases of rejection at the eu's borders, contrary to international law and conventions.
in writing. ‒ i do not find the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu to be favourable. the text deals with issues and aspects not covered by the eu treaties or international conventions and, above all, fall within the exclusive competence and discipline of individual member states. for these reasons i did not support my colleague's report.
in writing. ‒ by adopting this report, we wish to reiterate the fundamental role we recognise in the charter of fundamental rights in detailing a range of personal, civil, political, economic and social rights of eu citizens and residents. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, it was then given the same binding legal effect as all the treaties. we believe that all european citizens and residents should be able to enjoy the rights it contains without distinction of sex, religion, sexual orientation or colour of skin. unfortunately, institutional actors and non-governmental organisations are alarmingly reporting on the still very numerous violations of fundamental rights taking place on european territory. we believe that this situation is no longer tolerable and we call on all the european institutions and member states to take firm and resolute action to prevent such violations. to this end, we call for the establishment of a genuine internal eu fundamental rights strategy based on the application of article 2 of the treaty and involving all the union bodies active in the field of respect for fundamental rights. the eu should be able to ensure greater coherence with the strategic framework on human rights and democracy in all its external relations.
in writing. ‒ i am aware of the binding value of the charter of fundamental rights since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. i have seen the rapporteur's report which shows the persistence of violations of fundamental rights in the member states. i have decided to cast my negative vote.
in writing. ‒ the report aimed to establish an internal fundamental rights strategy for the european union based on the application of article 2 of the eu treaty. it also intended to establish a mechanism to act as a sufficient deterrent to prevent and eradicate situations of violations of fundamental rights in the member states. in particular, in the second part of the proposal the report dealt with a whole series of violations in the light of the current political situation such as freedom of expression, the need to ensure the right balance between respect for fundamental rights and guaranteeing collective security, the impact of austerity policies and corruption on fundamental rights and the situation in prisons. the report contained too many elements which did not ensure full respect for the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality of eu action, and thus affected some of the member states' own competences. i therefore voted against the ferrara report and supported the alternative resolution tabled by the ppe group.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is essential to defend christian values, in particular the institution of marriage as the prerogative of the natural family of one man and one woman. i think that the adoption of the proposal by the rapporteur of the five star movement is a serious defeat for the european parliament, a harmful measure which attests to the remoteness of politics from people's lives. i also believe that there is a clear attempt to exploit the debate on a very serious and important subject such as the protection of fundamental rights and non-discrimination in order to circumvent the legitimate limits of the treaties, which prevent the eu from intervening in the social policies of the member states. the rules on marriage are the prerogative of the individual states. for these reasons, i voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i think the text is unbalanced, that is, it focuses only on the rights of certain specific categories but is lacking in relation to wider issues.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mrs laura ferrara with great satisfaction. the report calls for a mechanism to monitor the respect for fundamental rights in the european union and its member states, and for the creation of a database to be set up by the agency for fundamental rights (fra) to collect all the information. the european parliament will be able to demand that all the rights enshrined in the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights be protected and will be able to ask the commission to monitor human rights at all times. the method proposed in the report is also a step forward in the protection of rights: the report was published online and was made available to the public, with the aim of creating greater and better interaction between the european institutions, member states and civil society. other important elements: the inclusion of austerity measures that have had a negative impact on fundamental rights, organised crime and corruption as factors in the violation of fundamental rights. the report also condemns discrimination and violence against lesbian, gay, transgender, bisexual and intersex (lgbti) people in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because it provides an overview of the state of respect for fundamental rights in the eu for 2013-2014 and contains proposals and recommendations of an institutional nature to ensure full respect for them in the years to come. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the charter of fundamental rights - which recognises a range of personal, civil, political, economic and social rights for eu citizens and residents - has been given the same binding legal effect as the treaties. all eu citizens and residents should be able to enjoy the rights it contains without distinction of sex, religion, sexual orientation or colour of skin. in particular, it proposes to establish a genuine internal eu fundamental rights strategy based on the full implementation of article 2 of the eu treaty and involving all union bodies active in the field of respect for fundamental rights; the committee also calls for the establishment of a mechanism which can really act as a sufficient deterrent to prevent and eradicate situations of violations of fundamental rights in the member states which are alarmingly reported by institutional actors and non-governmental organisations and which the european institutions and the member states must stop by reacting decisively.
in writing. ‒ public hearings of commissioners-designate are essential to allow parliament and citizens to make an informed judgement on the commission when voting on the confidence motion. they are also important in assessing each candidate's political priorities and suitability for the role. although they have no legal basis, they are an important parliamentary practice. the negative opinion of individual committees on individual commissioners has sometimes led to changes in the composition of the commission or in the distribution of portfolios. the report highlighted some specific problems and sought to solve them. in this context, it is desirable to create a specific section on parliament's website where the curricula of the commissioners-designate and their replies to written questions from the relevant parliamentary committees can be consulted, before the hearings themselves, in all the official languages of the union. it also states that the committee on legal affairs must pay particular attention to the control of the declarations of financial interests of the commissioners-designate, in which the interests of family members should be included. although some of my specific remarks were not accepted, the text is still a step forward. that's why i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the institution of hearings is undoubtedly an element of transparency, but europe only makes sporadic use of it, providing it with a follow-up to the european commission's work, which is too often opaque. i therefore abstained on the vote on the text because i believe that discussing how to improve the effectiveness of hearings of commissioners-designate is a purely dialectical exercise if, once appointed, they manage their great power in a less than transparent way.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the commissioner hearing procedure strengthens the democratic legitimacy of the eu institutions by bringing them closer to the european citizens. however, some aspects of the process of selecting and confirming commissioners could be improved. in particular, i believe that if national governments were required to submit two candidates of different sexes instead of one, it would be possible to achieve a greater gender balance within the commission.
in writing. ‒ abstention from voting on the own-initiative report on the practice of commissioners' hearings.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution on the procedures and practices for commissioner hearings, which provide a great opportunity to discover and assess the personality, qualifications and preparation of each candidate. it is no coincidence that in recent years the interest in hearings has grown exponentially among the media and european public opinion. as a result, it has become increasingly important to focus on the control of the declarations of financial interests of each commissioner-designate, the absence of any conflicts of interest and any other profile that appears to be opaque or inadequate. in addition, as the resolution rightly points out, great attention must be paid to gender balance: it will be necessary to encourage all member states to propose at least two candidates, so that the designated chairperson is able to propose a high-quality college composed of an equal number of women and men. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the text, in order to facilitate the process of reforming procedures, making the comparison between the commissioner and the members of the committee responsible for the hearing less rigid and more dynamic.
in writing. ‒ the report by my colleague introduces important improvements to the procedure for hearing commissioners, in particular with regard to the request for reform of the declarations of financial interests of commissioners and the extension of the obligation to submit such a declaration also to members of the commissioners' family. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the hearing of commissioners. the european parliament's hearings of commissioners, although not provided for in the treaties, have become a well-established practice. the hearing also allows parliament to assess the personality and qualifications of the commissioners. however, the recent auditions in 2014 revealed some problems. the proposal proposes that a deadline be set for member states to propose their candidates. requests that the written questionnaire be composed of 7 questions instead of 5; considers that 25 applications would be preferable and calls for new guidelines to be applied for the evaluation meeting of coordinators following the hearings. on the latter point, it is proposed that, in the absence of a clear majority or a majority against a candidate, supplementary information or a further hearing of one and a half hours or, if a majority has not yet been reached, a vote in committee may be requested. the committee also believes that the commission should be able to take account of the interests of the citizens of the union and the interests of the union's citizens.
in writing. ‒ i congratulate my colleagues who worked on this text because i believe they have done a useful and valuable exercise. i personally, although i approved the overall structure of the report and therefore voted in favour, i think that the hearings took too long and often turned into unnecessary a priori questioning. i'm used to judging people by what they do, not what they say or, worse, what they say they want to do. and in the meantime, legislative activity has remained static as citizens demand answers to the many problems they face. that said, at a constitutional level i still find the report a good compromise between the different views that were found in the process of preparing the text.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the public hearing of commissioners-designate is an essential procedure to ensure transparency in the criteria for evaluating candidates. i therefore voted in favour of the measure, which is also a useful example for the institutions at national level and a democratic instrument which values individual skills and qualifications in a fair and equal way.
in writing. i strongly support the report by mr corbett, drawn up by the committee on constitutional affairs. this is very important work, which allows european democracy to move towards more thorough parliamentary scrutiny of the candidates for the post of european commissioner. last year, during the hearings of the new barroso commission, we certainly demonstrated a great democratic exercise, but i think we could have defined methods and procedures that were even more effective and transparent, and mr corbett rightly points out some very appropriate measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the procedures and practices for commissioners' hearings, lessons to be learned from the 2014 procedure, as i believe that hearings allow parliament to make an informed judgement on the commission when voting on confidence. the committees are responsible for monitoring the replies given by the commissioners-designate during the hearings, and should help to improve control and to increase the responsibility of the commission as a whole. the hearings of candidates for the european commission are public and therefore a useful exercise in political and institutional correctness. the hearings provide the parliament and the public with an opportunity to learn about the personalities, general approach and priorities of each candidate and to assess their qualifications. the current procedures need to be evaluated and lessons learned to improve the process. whereas the hearings were organised by the conference of presidents and it is therefore the task of the chairman and the coordinators of each committee to define the procedures for them;
in writing. the report adopted today aims to propose a number of ideas which could lead to a change in the procedures for hearing commissioners. the recent renewal of the european commission has given us the opportunity to reflect on the functioning of the rules to ensure that the process is even more effective and transparent. we therefore believe that it is appropriate to impose a deadline on the member states to propose candidates; each state shall submit at least two candidates, one male and one female; and the visibility and transparency of the letters of approval shall be ensured.
in writing. ‒ the public hearings of the candidates for the european commission are important because they give each candidate the opportunity to showcase his or her skills and qualifications, and give the european parliament the opportunity to learn about each candidate's priorities. it is appropriate to set a deadline for member states to propose their candidates and to give each member state the possibility of submitting two candidates, one male and one female. i am in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the public hearings of the european commissioners-designate are a crucial moment, as they allow the parliamentary committees to learn about the personalities, political priorities and qualifications of potential commissioners before the european parliament expresses its vote of confidence. the report takes note of the events that took place following the 2014 parliamentary elections during the hearing of the designated candidates and reflects on possible changes to the relevant procedures. the commission will also be able to submit proposals for the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products. i think it is appropriate to define the scope of such established practice. i have therefore decided to support this report.
in writing. ‒ we believe that the public hearings of commissioners-designate are a very important opportunity for the european parliament and all citizens of the european union to assess each candidate's priorities and suitability for the job, and also a valuable tool and an important exercise of participatory democracy. the adoption of this report is intended to bring about certain procedural improvements, which are also the result of past experience. we note the increased interest in the media and the public, and suggest, for example, that a new use of social networks be envisaged to involve european union citizens more effectively in the process of hearings. specific public sections could be created on parliament's website, available in all official languages of the union, so that all european citizens can freely assess the curricula of commissioners-designate and their answers to written questions.
in writing. ‒ i have noted the decisive role played by the public hearings of commission candidates, which is evident from the rapporteur's work. given the absence of a rule providing for such a procedure within the teu and in the hope that this can be regulated soon, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the hearing procedure is not provided for in the lisbon treaty. this is a practice developed over the last 20 years which has required candidates for the office of commissioner to appear before the parliamentary committees corresponding to their portfolio before parliament's vote of confidence in the commission. the public hearings of candidates for the european commission give the european parliament the opportunity to learn about each candidate's priorities and to assess their qualifications. if the debate reveals problems, parliament could thus oppose the nomination of the candidate and ask for his replacement. the report aims to draw conclusions from the last round of commissioner hearings and to propose some ideas which could lead to a change in procedures. i believe that a deadline should be set for the member states to propose their candidates; apply clear guidelines for the evaluation meeting of coordinators following the hearings and ensure transparency and visibility of the letters of approval. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the role of the european parliament in choosing the college of commissioners is essential. the new rules for the hearing of commissioners will bring greater efficiency and transparency and bring citizens closer to the world of politics. the european parliament has decided to set a deadline for member states to nominate their candidates, who must be at least two, one man and one woman. in addition, the publicity of the letters of approval will be ensured and the evaluation will be completed within 24 hours.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because the institution of hearings is undoubtedly an important element of transparency, but unfortunately it is usually followed by the european commission's activities, which are too often very opaque.
in writing. - although we are not yet at the level of orwell's famous book "1984", we must keep our guard up. the advances made in digital technology have had a major impact on information and communication services, allowing us to cross frontiers that until a few years ago could have been considered science fiction. however, in the absence of clear rules, human rights and fundamental freedoms are all too often violated, especially in third countries. security measures, including anti-terrorism measures, are increasingly used as a pretext to violate the right to privacy and to counter the legitimate activities of human rights defenders, journalists and political activists. the european parliament's report 'human rights and technology: impact of surveillance and detection systems on human rights in third countries' sends a clear message to the commission and the council, calling on them to actively defend the open internet, multilateral decision-making procedures, net neutrality, digital freedoms and data protection safeguards. for these reasons, my vote was in favour.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on this report, which deals with a very sensitive issue such as the protection of whistleblowers and human rights defenders in third countries in an unbalanced way.
in writing. ‒ in today's globalised and interconnected world, the internet is a familiar experience for billions of people. being cut off from the internet means having drastically reduced opportunities to communicate, to inform themselves, to further their studies, to improve their economic situation, to form an autonomous civic and political consciousness. the right to internet access must be recognised as a human right because it is now an integral part of the right to social inclusion and non-discrimination of every citizen. the global spread of high-speed communications systems cannot ignore the serious violations of privacy and freedom of expression that some institutions, public and private, can commit by exploiting ict. strong and clear union action is needed to protect the security of communications and the freedom of expression and information of all ict users: the new technologies must be a tool for promoting freedom and democracy, never a means for mass surveillance and control. in this sense, the union is morally obliged to ensure its protection of whistleblowers and humanitarian activists who reveal abusive surveillance systems in third countries: freedom and security are not adversaries but must march together, in europe as in the rest of the world.
in writing. - i abstained. the committee regrets that certain information and communication technologies and services are sold and used in third countries by private companies and authorities, which often violate human rights.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the chamber, i voted today in favour of the report on the european parliament's motion for a resolution on 'human rights and technology: impact of surveillance and detection systems for human rights infringements in third countries'. the theme clearly highlights what i have repeatedly stated over the past year - in two written statements on the ethics of technological innovation and ehealth, as well as in numerous questions - that this is a risk inherent in the very use of these technologies, by their high pervasiveness. i join the chorus of those who share the need to regulate even the simple use of these technologies for a noble purpose. if it doesn't, that lack can make -- and does make -- each of us more exposed, more vulnerable. i therefore share the motion for a resolution and the call for inclusive and responsible participation of all parties involved (governments, civil society, private sector and users).
in writing. ‒ this report aims to explain how technologies can help to enhance human rights. despite the risks that may be associated with some of the systems that allow for surveillance, shutdown or interruption of the signal, i voted in favour because the amendments we have proposed, especially those to ensure respect for digital freedom, non-censorship of the network and the promotion of its neutrality, were welcomed and included in the compromises that are part of the final text.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against the report on human rights and technology in third countries. the measure under consideration emphasises that communications surveillance interferes with the rights to confidentiality when exercised outside an appropriate legal framework and deplores the use of security measures, including anti-terrorism measures, as a pretext for violating the right to confidentiality. the ppe group considered the content of the report in question to be insufficient and not in line with its prerogatives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report because i believe that it addresses in a complete and exhaustive way the problems of eu companies engaging in activities that violate human rights through the sale of such technologies in third countries: the interference in the affairs of european citizens, mass surveillance, intelligence services and hackers who buy these eu-made and -made technologies undermine the credibility of the european union. more transparency and accountability in the markets is needed. a further reason why i voted in favour is that whistleblowers and journalists who reveal abusive surveillance practices in third countries are in a particularly critical situation: they should be considered as human rights defenders and therefore be protected by the eu as such.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report of parliament because i believe that technologies can have a real and effective impact on the improvement of human rights in third countries. it is also to the benefit of the european union and its member states to have open standards in global use, as well as free and open source cryptographic software and technologies. the promotion of this in eu programmes and policies for third countries should therefore be encouraged.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to explain how technologies can help to enhance human rights. there are new opportunities that can play an important role in promoting democracy, such as freedom of association online, freedom of expression, freedom of access to information. all these possibilities are being considered thanks to new technologies. in some areas this has an impact on activists, journalists and all those who defend human rights. the idea is to ensure that these opportunities are used. the main ideas of our amendments, namely ensuring respect for digital freedom, the uncensored and unrestricted internet and the promotion of net neutrality, were welcomed and included in the compromises which form part of the final text, so i decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this resolution, as it recognises that human rights and fundamental freedoms are universal and must be defended globally in all their forms; secondly, it calls on the eu to adopt free and open source software and to encourage others to do the same, as such software ensures better security and greater respect for human rights. further stresses that communications surveillance, as such, interferes with the rights to confidentiality and expression when exercised outside an appropriate legal framework; regrets that certain information and communication technologies and services produced within the eu are sold and can be used by individuals, businesses and authorities in third countries with the specific intent of violating human rights through censorship, mass surveillance, disruptive activities, interception, monitoring, detection and tracking of citizens and their activities on (mobile) telephone networks and the internet; the resolution also expresses concern that some eu-based companies may provide technologies and services that could enable such human rights violations.
in writing. high technology and free access to the internet offer almost unlimited access to information and an exceptional stimulus to freedom of expression. but technology can be a threat to the individual if the risks of its imprudent use are not considered. bullying and the exploitation of minors and vulnerable people online are unfortunately just one of the dangers that the internet and technology pose to those who use it too lightly. europe is by its very nature a guarantor of human rights and as such cannot allow the reckless and uncontrolled sale or export of high-tech products to become a weapon of mass control for dictatorial regimes or a tool which facilitates acts of unwitting hacking or industrial espionage or terrorism. for these reasons i support the call on the commission to ensure that the market and exports of advanced european technological products are regulated and controlled with particular care so that europe is vigilant and does not become complicit in dramatic human rights violations, either towards third countries or for actions that could be used against its own citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on 'human rights and technology: impact of surveillance and detection systems on human rights violations in third countries' because i agreed with the report by mrs schaake from the outset. in my view, technology is an important tool for ensuring respect for human rights, but at the same time, if misused, it can be a danger to the security and freedom of citizens. i believe that the eu should step up its efforts to support ict security and privacy enforcers, because of the key role they play in authoritarian regimes in organising protests and social events. i am therefore very concerned about the unjustified violations of the privacy of citizens by governments around the world in the fight against terrorism. in no case can the legitimate need for national security justify such intrusions. finally, i share the call to the commission and the council to cooperate actively with the governments of third countries to ensure freedom of thought and expression, especially for the press, which is too often subject to intolerable controls and restrictions.
in writing. technological developments and access to an open internet play an increasingly important role in enabling and ensuring the exercise and full respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms, which, being universal, must be guaranteed and protected in all their aspects. at the same time, respect for the right to privacy and personal confidentiality is becoming of paramount importance in a hyper-connected world and deserves the attention of the legislator when identifying and defining the applicable legislation.
in writing. ‒ the overriding principle highlighted in the report is based on security measures, including anti-terrorism measures, which are increasingly being used as a pretext to infringe the right to privacy. communications surveillance, when used outside a certain context, interferes with the rights to privacy and expression. it is extremely important to emphasise that digital security and digital freedom are both priority factors, but they cannot in any way violate the right to confidentiality and privacy, as they are core principles of the eu charter of fundamental rights. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ we support this measure because it is necessary because of the realisation that communications surveillance can interfere with the rights to privacy and expression when conducted outside an appropriate legal framework. in this context, it is important that the commission ensures coherence between the european union's external actions and its internal policies on ict and to promote democratic oversight of security and intelligence services in political dialogue with third countries. it is crucial that counter-terrorism measures are not used as a pretext for violations of the right to privacy and to repress the legitimate activities of human rights defenders, journalists and political activists. the resolution, which has seen all our group's amendments adopted, also makes an explicit call for internet access to be considered a human right.
in writing. ‒ while i believe that the use of the internet and ict contributes to the effective and efficient implementation of human rights, in particular freedom of expression, which the european union is pioneering, and that it is necessary to identify the limits within which control and surveillance activities can be exercised by each member state, i voted against because i do not believe that the issue has been dealt with in a comprehensive and satisfactory manner.
in writing. ‒ the report calls on the eu, and in particular the european external action service (eeas), to use encryption in its communications with human rights defenders, to avoid putting defenders at risk and to protect its communications with third parties from surveillance. the report also deplores the fact that security measures, including anti-terrorism measures, are increasingly being used as a pretext to violate the right to privacy and to counter the legitimate activities of human rights defenders, journalists and political activists; reiterates its belief that national security can never justify secret or untargeted mass surveillance programmes; insists that these measures must be pursued in strict compliance with the rule of law and human rights standards, including the right to confidentiality and data protection. i have decided, together with the ppe group, not to support this resolution because i believe that, although it sets out some of the basic principles of our democracy, counter-terrorism and the way in which national security is to be guaranteed must be a matter for the member states to decide for themselves.
in writing. ‒ through technological development and internet access, citizens can constantly receive a vast amount of information services and content. these instruments are an expression of human rights and allow the exercise of freedom of expression. in order to protect and guarantee these rights, it is essential to preserve and protect the right to privacy and personal confidentiality. i do not agree with some of the points made by mr schaake.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because the text, while setting some broadly agreeable objectives, lacks a global view of the issues in question.
in writing. ‒i voted today in favour of the report on human rights and technology in third countries. i think it is important for the european parliament to stress that communications surveillance, when conducted outside an appropriate legislative framework, is a violation of citizens' freedom of expression and an arbitrary interference in their private lives. i find the text particularly appropriate where it calls on the commission to ensure consistency between the union's external actions and its internal policies on ict in order to guarantee and promote democratic control of security and intelligence services in the political dialogue with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which contains the main elements needed to stimulate the debate on the new cap reform.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that a bureaucratic simplification of the cap would bring many benefits, allowing a considerable reduction in error rates and, therefore, greater efficiency of the system.
in writing. - i vote for it. the urgency of simplifying the basic rules is becoming the main reason why the cap reform is already being discussed, almost two years after the natural deadline.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the protection of the european union's financial interests. it is essential to achieve a more effective and efficient reform of the common agricultural policy (cap), which is more simplified and less bureaucratic. to achieve this, not only the number of checks must be reduced, but also and above all the costs and administrative burdens on taxpayers and farmers. it is clear that a less bureaucratic, easily applicable and interpretable cap will make it possible to reduce the error rates considerably and will therefore allow the development of tools which will enable error to be distinguished from fraud. moreover, by creating digitisation programmes on the relationship between administrations and agricultural undertakings, a single farm file could be available for the integrated and synchronous management of crop data, and, by allowing agricultural undertakings to submit only one declaration, more efficient controls by the administrations themselves. addressing the complexity of the cap is the key to attracting new entrants to agriculture, and so i have decided to vote in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ the report has minor criticisms, such as the proposal to reduce checks (which are very costly) for member states that are aiming for better results, but overall the text is very good. it focuses on the call for a less bureaucratic cap in order to reduce costs and errors, and calls for the development of tools to distinguish between inadvertent error and fraud, as the former do not normally cause financial damage to the taxpayer. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the protection of the eu's financial interests in the cap. the common agricultural policy is a complex policy because of its heterogeneity. it is therefore considered that more effective and efficient cap reform requires simplification and less red tape in order to achieve its objectives. the report calls in particular for improved quality of agricultural controls by the member states, the commission and the court of auditors, and for reliable data reporting by the member states to avoid double checks and simplify the cap.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because mr petri sarvamaa has rightly focused on the search for proper financial control as regards the cap. one of the proposals i have shared is to try to put in place a single control scheme with a single chain of inspection: the commission has already taken steps to reduce the costs of the various programmes. i believe, as the rapporteur has said, that a simplification of these checks is inevitable and necessary. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that the proposed control rules are essential to ensure adequate quality standards and to accompany all member states in their development, two things i have always believed in and am committed to.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the content of this important own-initiative report, which i supported by voting in favour. the rate of error in the management of the cap is still too high, but errors must always be kept separate from fraud, bureaucratic procedures must be simplified and the right balance must be struck between administrative simplification and effective financial control. i hope that the commission will continue to improve the cap and take steps in this direction.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this resolution as it calls for a less bureaucratic cap that can be applied and interpreted clearly in order to reduce error rates and develop tools to distinguish between error and fraud, while ensuring that farmers continue to be able to produce essential food, which is at the heart of the strategy; i believe that continuing to address complexity and streamlining the cap are key elements in attracting new entrants to agriculture, retaining them with their skills, to ensure a healthy eu agricultural sector in the future. i support the commission's initiative to simplify the cap by immediately examining measures that can be implemented quickly, as this would benefit farmers, paying agencies, eu institutions and taxpayers. finally, the resolution suggests that, at the mid-term review, proposals for amendments to the basic legislative act be submitted for the reform for the next funding period.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the measure to fill the gap left by the lack of simplification of the cap.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the protection of the european union's financial interests, towards performance-based controls in relation to the common agricultural policy. i think it is of the utmost importance to simplify and reduce the administrative burden of the common agricultural policy, since the european court of auditors itself has pointed out that greater complexity does not mean better controls and less fraud. i therefore support the call for a less bureaucratic cap, which makes it possible to distinguish between voluntary omissions, which do not entail losses for the taxpayer, and genuine fraud. the commission also stressed the need to focus on the quality of controls rather than on the quantity of controls, and asked the commission to study and present innovative audit methods that would avoid the repetition of several controls on the same economic operator at different times of the year. the idea of a single audit mechanism can be a shared solution to relieve european farmers of excessive bureaucratic burdens. the call to push for greater digitisation of procedures and more generally for greater use of information technology in the cap is also welcome. in this regard, investing in broadband in rural areas, especially in disadvantaged areas, is a key requirement.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of this proposal. the report stresses the need to strike the right balance between a lower number of administrative burdens and effective financial control for farmers. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of controls on the use of agricultural products, which will be based on the principle of the 'one-stop-shop' for the control of agricultural products.
in writing. ‒ the common agricultural policy has, over the last two reform cycles, developed a clear regulatory complexity. effective implementation of the cap should go hand in hand with the removal of the remaining bureaucratic obstacles. it is on this basis that i have decided to support mr sarvamaa's report, which calls for a proper balance to be struck between administrative burdens and financial control.
in writing. ‒ in order to bring europe closer to its citizens, i thought i would vote in favour of simplifying the procedures under the cap, including the eu's monitoring and control activities vis-à-vis beneficiaries to facilitate its implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report with the aim of improving the efficiency of the cap, avoiding the waste of valuable economic resources. the report stresses the need to strike the right balance between less administrative burden and effective financial control. the report presented in plenary calls for reliable first-level checks and reliable data reporting by the member states in order to avoid double checks and to achieve administrative simplification.
in writing. ‒ efficient first-level controls and clear and reliable communication by member states are needed to ensure an appropriate balance between administrative burdens and financial controls. i voted in favour of the proposal put forward by mr sarvamaa, which aims to overcome the various difficulties arising from a cap which is too bureaucratic and too cumbersome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, sharing the urgency of a reform of the cap with a view to simplifying it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's proposal to improve the quality of agricultural controls carried out by the member states, the commission and the european court of auditors. reforms to the common agricultural policy (cap) have increased complexity and bureaucracy for the competent authorities and farmers in recent years. i therefore felt it essential to express my agreement to this proposal which has as its ultimate aim the perfecting of a very complex agricultural system.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the protection of the european union's financial interests: i am therefore in favour of results-based controls in relation to the common agricultural policy, because i believe that the current system of controls in the common agricultural policy must be reviewed. i would like to remind you that the european commission's directorate-general for agriculture has proposed a 'financial correction' of up to €388 million and €743,000 for the 'serious deficiencies in the management of debts and irregularities' alleged by the agency for agricultural payments in italy. during the two cycles of reform of the cap, the rules have become more heterogeneous and complex, leading to more errors on the ground. there is a need for performance-based controls, while at the same time there is a need for stability and a responsible approach by the administrative bodies. the cost of controls relating to the common agricultural policy amounts to eur 4 billion per year and covers 50 million transactions, compared with a budget for agriculture of some eur 58 billion. simplification is necessary but must not in any way lead to the dismantling of the instruments which have been adopted: the commission has also proposed that the cap should be less bureaucratic in order to reduce the error rate and that tools be developed to distinguish between error and fraud in order to combat the latter actively and successfully.
in writing. ‒ the costs of controls relating to the common agricultural policy amount to eur 4 billion per year and cover 50 million transactions, compared to a budget for agriculture of around eur 58 billion. the complexity of the cap is due to the diversity and heterogeneity of agriculture in europe, and the necessary simplification must not, however, lead to the dismantling of the instruments which have been adopted: the report we voted on today therefore focuses on the call for a less bureaucratic cap in order to reduce the error rates and to develop tools which enable us to distinguish between error and fraud. as regards simplification, this report aims to establish a single audit mechanism to establish a single chain of controls from final beneficiaries to the eu institutions and calls for an integrated approach to controls so that all obligations on a farm can contain the number of checks and reduce the concomitant cost and burden in terms of resources and time. it also called on the member states to implement digitisation programmes in the area of intergovernmental relations. i voted in favour of this report, although i had some minor criticisms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which effectively underlines the very important role of family businesses in the european economy and also calls the development of a legal framework to support this type of business a 'priority'.
in writing. ‒ despite the good work done by the rapporteur, i voted against this motion for a resolution because i believe that our smes have not been adequately protected. in particular, i think it is wrong to extend access to all the instruments and funds which are exclusively for smes, such as cosme, to mid-cap companies as well. in addition, our main concerns are related to the fact that family businesses vary widely in size, from micro to multinational, but it is clear that the difficulties faced by a micro enterprise in accessing european instruments and funding are greater.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i am firmly convinced of the fundamental importance of family businesses for the european economy. they are a huge resource across the continent and play a vital social role within the communities they belong to. i therefore believe that the commission should do everything possible to enable it to survive and, even more, to grow.
in writing. ‒ family businesses represent over 60% of european enterprises and provide around 50% of all existing private sector jobs in europe. most of the enterprises active in the agricultural and fisheries sectors are family-run, as are many in the craft, trade and production of quality goods and services. they have a longer-term perspective than non-owner-run farms because they want the farm to be economically sound for generations to come and are therefore often strongly rooted in the land and a bulwark against depopulation in rural areas, as well as being an important source of employment that is intertwined with local communities, has stability characteristics and is not at risk of relocation. however, due to their particular characteristics, family businesses cannot be fully identified with smes. the lack of a single european definition of this kind of reality and the excessive bureaucratization of the business system cause significant damage to family businesses. the eu needs to initiate updated studies on the sector and adapt its regulatory framework to protect them.
in writing. - i voted yes. the report stresses the role of family businesses in the economy and in keeping jobs even in times of crisis, and calls for a legal framework more suited to this particular form of business.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution on family businesses, which are strongly rooted in the territory of each member state and can therefore make a huge contribution to europe's competitiveness and to the creation of new jobs. despite the fact that these enterprises have played such an important role in our economy for many decades, very little attention has been paid to them at the political level. on the one hand, it is becoming increasingly difficult for such firms to access financial support instruments, while on the other hand the bureaucratic burden continues to grow, becoming unsustainable, effectively negating the increase in profits or turnover, and automatically curbing any possibility of growth. it is therefore crucial to better understand the issues and challenges facing family businesses and to bring them back to the political attention they deserve. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ family businesses are an important part (85% in number, 60% of private sector jobs) of the european economy, although their presence is uneven across eu countries. beyond their economic role, they play an equally essential social role. i believe it is absolutely essential to protect smes, and that is why i voted against the report by my colleague angelika niebler, together with the m5s delegation.
in writing. ‒ the european business fabric is made up of around 60% small family-run businesses. this is a very important economic reality to which there has not been the right attention at national and european level. the lack of a legal definition common to all the member states of the union has certainly not helped in identifying specific actions towards these enterprises, which have been and are still particularly exposed to the economic crisis. the economic recovery must start with a greater focus on this important category of enterprises and provide assistance, where necessary, which should not only be financial but also administrative and fiscal, to support them in the generational changeover which is the most difficult challenge for family businesses. for these reasons, data collection is necessary to arrive as soon as possible at a simple, clear, easily applicable and comparable definition across countries to help better understand the phenomenon and the challenges faced by family businesses. i voted in favour of the report because it has finally brought political and institutional attention back to a sector which is so important for creating and maintaining jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure in question concerning family businesses in europe. in a europe with some 25 million unemployed, including 5 million young people under 25, and, as calculated by the commission, with positive margins of gdp growth for the coming years, it is important to focus on family businesses. they represent 60% of eu enterprises and provide 40-50% of private sector jobs. moreover, many of these are deeply rooted in the territory in which they operate. however, these enterprises face many difficulties, due to the lack of a common definition at european level and the lack of political attention they receive. many family-run enterprises do not fall within the definition of smes and therefore do not benefit from special instruments or exemptions from specific obligations. succession to the top management is particularly difficult for such companies and every year about 150 000 000 companies are forced to close down because of this problem. the commission is therefore calling for the introduction of a test for family businesses and a legislative impact assessment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i think it has the great merit of highlighting the great contribution that family businesses make to the european economy. however, this recognition only makes sense to the extent that it becomes a starting point for effectively and financially supporting these enterprises so that they continue to provide employment and welfare. a wise industrial policy by the eu cannot fail to help businesses thrive, which, as the report points out, act as a buffer in times of crisis and guarantee jobs when the cycle improves. i congratulate the rapporteur.
in writing. family businesses account for 60% of enterprises in the european union and for 40-50% of private sector jobs. they are therefore essential to overcome the crisis, promote economic recovery and restore employment balance. in addition, most family businesses are strongly rooted in the territory, thus making a significant contribution to preventing depopulation of rural areas. however, although they play an important role, little attention is paid in practice to their needs. for example, there is no legally binding and harmonised definition of 'family business' and this leads to their exclusion from certain support instruments or administrative exemptions. this obstacle, as well as others, should be removed without delay.
in writing. ‒ family businesses are a significant part of european businesses and, in some european regions, the main source of employment. given their economic and social importance, i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that the commission and the member states must take specific measures to encourage and support companies which intend to invest mainly abroad, to simplify administrative and tax procedures and to develop training activities which will enable them to keep up to date with the latest management practices.
in writing. ‒ promoting jobs, growth and investment are the main political priorities of the current european commission. family businesses can play a decisive role in overcoming the economic and financial crisis. these companies, which account for about 60% of enterprises in the european union, have a longer life expectancy than other companies, because the owners want them to be economically sound and durable. despite the important role family businesses play in our economy, little political attention is paid to them. i have supported this report because they feel that we need to have a better understanding of the problems and challenges facing these businesses in order to provide assistance where needed.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because there is no legally binding, concrete, simple and harmonised european definition of the family business. this lack has significant implications for industrial policy, since it makes it impossible to collect uniform data on them and makes it difficult to target support/promotion actions on these enterprises. the absence of this consolidated definition seriously harms family farms and consequently has a strong negative impact on italian enterprises. finally, i do not agree with the further delay in the already insufficient instruments for smes, which potentially favours large and very large companies to the detriment of genuine, small smes.
in writing. ‒ the report rightly highlights the role of family businesses in the economy and in keeping jobs even in this period of severe economic crisis. it therefore calls for a legal framework more suited to this particular form of enterprise.
in writing. ‒ family businesses, although a driving force in the european economy, unfortunately suffer from a number of problems that limit their potential. the report analyses the problems which europe must be able to face without fear in order to give concrete answers, in particular those linked to the bureaucratic and fiscal difficulties in the successive transition of the same. i therefore voted in favour of the report, hoping that this will be followed by effective and appropriate legislative development.
in writing. despite representing a key resource of the european economic market, about 60%, family businesses in europe unfortunately still suffer from important gaps in the recognition of certain fundamental rights, linked in particular to the inclusion of women, thus contributing to the limits of the growth and integration of women in the world of work and both increasing them in relation to the development possibilities of the companies themselves. in fact, women, although they are an integral part of family farms, often still find many barriers to real and effective integration and above all to adequate recognition of their role and remuneration, which unfortunately still stands at less than 16% compared to men. investing in family businesses means for europe to commit itself to growth and to developing the market of the future and it is essential to do so today, regardless of the recognition and inclusion and training of women. i therefore share the call for europe to commit itself to ensuring equal opportunities for women and men and equal training opportunities within family businesses and to adopting a single definition of family businesses for all member states as a career tool for both genders.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's own-initiative report on family businesses in europe because i believe that family businesses are a pillar of the european economic fabric. we are talking about a share of almost 60% of enterprises in the eu, which create almost half of the private sector jobs, and which are spread, with different models, across all the member states. i therefore believe it is crucial that the eu supports and helps family businesses to overcome everyday challenges such as access to finance, internationalisation, innovation and the quality of the workforce. i believe it is essential to support a type of enterprise which is traditionally linked to the territory and which, especially in rural and disadvantaged areas, provides a key employment function, giving work to minorities and disadvantaged people and guaranteeing a kind of territorial welfare. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this measure: more than 60% of enterprises in the european union are family-run businesses, which provide 40-50% of private sector jobs. these figures alone show us the crucial role that these entities can play in overcoming the financial and economic crisis and in fostering european recovery. in the long term, and compared to non-owner-run companies, these companies make a decisive contribution to ensuring european competitiveness vis-à-vis other global players.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on family businesses in europe. these enterprises play a significant role in economic growth, social and regional development in terms of employment, knowledge transfer and spatial organisation. they are in fact the largest source of employment, providing 40/50% of jobs in the private sector. the report stresses the need to provide assistance to smaller family businesses by promoting alternative forms of credit to them, such as credit cooperatives, and to create special transfer financing instruments to prevent liquidity problems.
in writing. ‒ more than 60% of european businesses are family-run. they provide 40-50% of jobs in the private sector. unlike other types of enterprise, family businesses are more competitive, since the owner of the business will always aim to ensure the economic viability of his business for the benefit of future generations. for these reasons i felt obliged to support the report signed by mrs niebler, who points out that family businesses are a good starting point in view of the rapid economic recovery.
in writing. ‒ given that smes make up the majority of the european economic fabric, that the mortality rate of family businesses is high with the transition between generations, and given my continued commitment to smes in the committee on industry, i felt it was essential to focus attention on this issue and to hope that the eu could foster the exchange of good practice and provide assistance to businesses to ensure their survival and development.
in writing. ‒ more than 60% of enterprises in the european union are family-run. they provide 40-50% of jobs in the private sector. family businesses have a longer-term perspective than non-owner-run businesses, as owners want the business to be financially sound for generations to come. family-owned enterprises can play a key role in overcoming the economic and financial crisis and contributing to economic recovery. this type of entrepreneurial activity makes a decisive contribution to ensuring europe's competitiveness and creating jobs. i have always been in favour of supporting and recognising the economic value of smes and in particular of micro family businesses. the latter are in almost all cases very attentive to the socioeconomic context of the territory in which they operate and, unlike large industrial groups, are much less inclined to relocate their production activities. i have therefore decided to support this proposal by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ europe has been hit by a severe economic and financial crisis. over 60% of businesses in europe are family-run and in the private sector 40%-50% of jobs are in family-run businesses, which therefore make an essential contribution to ensuring europe's long-term competitiveness. i am voting in favour of this because i believe that in order to promote economic recovery it is important to take account of and protect the added value of this type of enterprise.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the report stresses the role of family businesses in the economy and in keeping jobs even in times of crisis, and calls for a legal framework more suited to this particular form of business.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on family businesses, given the importance and the major socioeconomic role they play at both national and european level. the lack of a definition of family businesses in terms of turnover means that they can be classified as either micro or multinational and this may create uncertainty in the targeted policies to be adopted. i believe that the role played by these companies is of great importance for our economic growth and the reduction of unemployment. the report proposes to extend the sme instruments to medium-cap family businesses. it is also hoped that the commission will present a work plan setting out appropriate measures for the growth of these enterprises. to this end, i believe that an analysis of the existing rules is necessary to identify the obstacles to their growth and possible internationalisation, allowing family businesses easier access to information on european legislation and funding.
in writing. - i voted against the niebler report on family-controlled enterprises. this is not because we are against this type of enterprise but because a paragraph has been inserted in the report asking the commission to extend the beneficiaries of funds for smes to medium-cap family-controlled enterprises (mid-caps) and to make them use the existing specific instruments for smes (which by definition are only those which meet certain budgetary, turnover and number of employees criteria). it is already very difficult for small businesses to apply for these instruments, and the application approved in this report makes the reality for smes even more difficult: mid-caps have more resources both in terms of organisation and human resources, while small and medium-sized enterprises have much more difficulty applying for european funds or funding through programmes such as cosme or horizon2020. this goes against our objective of protecting a category as fundamental to our country as smes.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on family businesses in europe. this type of enterprise is a fundamental part of our social fabric, with more than 60% of all enterprises in the european union being family-run, and these enterprises provide some 40-50% of private sector jobs. i am absolutely convinced, and i agree with the text that was adopted, that the union must support these enterprises, but that this cannot be done without a full understanding of the problems and challenges facing family businesses. i would like to conclude by recalling the need to carry out in-depth impact assessments, such as the family business test, in order to establish with certainty the impact of the new eu rules on family businesses.
in writing. ‒ although the concept of 'blue economy' is rather vague, the report 'supports a specific and integrated definition, covering all sectoral and inter-sectoral activities linked to the oceans, seas, coastal ecosystems, the associated hinterland and coastal areas, including direct and indirect forms of support'. i voted in favour of the text because if these activities can also bring benefits in terms of welfare and employment then they deserve to be supported.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because blue growth is an important lever for the eu's sustainable development. if we consider all the economic activities that depend on the sea, we realize that we are facing a "blue economy" that in europe represents about 5.4 million jobs. an economy with strong potential for job growth, such as activities linked to sustainable maritime and coastal tourism. however, this economy will only be able to exploit its full potential if it can combine sustainable business development with a good ecological status of the coastal and maritime environment. in europe, the demand for the use of coastal areas is constantly increasing. the use of wind energy is increasing in various sectors, such as maritime transport, fisheries, aquaculture, tourism, the laying of submarine cables and pipelines, and offshore wind energy production. this is why appropriate coordination between the various operators and actors is necessary, without which there is a risk of intensifying competition and putting precious resources under excessive pressure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the blue economy represents a great opportunity for growth across the continent. however, i believe that in order to exploit the full potential of this sector, it is absolutely necessary to invest in research and innovation without compromising the projects already under way. the commission, together with the member states, should therefore endeavour to find the necessary resources.
in writing. this own-initiative report by the european parliament is a response to the commission's action plan for innovation in the 'blue economy', which covers a wide range of economic sectors related to the seas and oceans, including fisheries, aquaculture, ports and logistics, tourism, coastline protection. we believe that the oceans and seas are a source of growth and can contribute to increased jobs, food and energy, but at the same time we must protect ecosystems for future generations through responsible and sustainable management. in order to make all this possible, more research, knowledge, expertise and data on our seas and oceans are indispensable. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental policy. it is equally essential to initiate marine disaster prevention strategies and measures by including environmental risks and economic activities, scientifically supporting their management and resolution and determining responsibilities within european and international legislation.
in writing. - i vote for it. the concept of the 'blue economy', like other 'colour economies', is rather vague and prone to misunderstandings, so much so that it has not yet been defined. to this end, the report 'supports a specific and integrated definition, covering all sectoral and inter-sectoral activities linked to oceans, seas, coastal ecosystems, the associated hinterland and coastal zones, including direct and indirect forms of support'. beyond that, if it can bring a benefit in terms of welfare and employment, then welcome.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the chamber, i voted today in favour of the report on the european parliament's motion for a resolution on exploiting the potential of research and innovation in the blue economy to create growth and jobs, on the basis of the following considerations: - the theme of the blue economy and its proper exploitation is now an integral part of the world economy and, together with the protection and safeguarding of the natural environment, a priority for the political action of the community and national institutions; - i join the chorus of those who share the need not to neglect traditional sectors and to implement scientific knowledge through research and innovation. i agree that - among the many resources of 'well-being' that the sea can offer - the creation and growth of jobs is of paramount importance. i share the report and the principle that it is paramount to ensure that the common interest, the public good, prevails over particular, sectoral and individual interests.
in writing. ‒ the concept of the blue economy covers a wide range of activities, sectors and issues related to the sea, which is why it is clearly of great importance for our country. the report by my colleague, while referring to the precautionary principle in the context of an integrated european approach which takes account of the different specificities, is inconsistent. in fact, even in the face of scientific evidence, it does not put the necessary brakes on the exploitation of mineral resources which, on the contrary, seriously damage marine ecosystems. my vote was therefore in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ the seas and oceans represent a strong potential for growth: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment and to improve the quality of life in the coastal regions. the lack of data on the 'health' of our seas, on the resources of the seabed and on marine ecosystems has, in fact, prevented and limited to date the development process that can result from so-called blue growth, which covers a wide range of economic sectors ranging from traditional activities (fisheries, aquaculture) to emerging ones, such as renewable energies or biotechnologies. the potential of the blue economy will be exploited mainly through two main lines of action: on the one hand, by filling the shortage of qualified professionals in different fields of study and activity, and on the other hand, by increasing the investment in research and innovation necessary to ensure that its development is environmentally sustainable. the protection and conservation of marine ecosystems must remain the central objectives that will guide the european strategy for blue growth. the report we have voted on is in the direction i would like to see, namely the right balance between research, economic growth and the environment. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure on research and innovation in the blue economy. the concept of the blue economy is linked to a wide range of sectors of economic activity related to the seas and oceans, including traditional sectors (e.g. fisheries, aquaculture, tourism, recreational boating) and emerging sectors (e.g. exploitation of offshore mineral resources, biotechnology). both sectors are important for growth and employment and both have specific challenges and sensitivities that need to be addressed. to this end, education, training and research are essential elements for the development of a sustainable economy. the measure under examination underlines the need to assess the compliance of existing programmes and measures (including financing) with the objectives of the development of the blue economy, as well as the interaction between the different existing structures and programmes and their results.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i fully agree with the basic framework provided by the commission. it emphasizes the importance of development, particularly technological development, for the maritime industry. in this connection i think that sectors such as fisheries, aquaculture, transport, tourism and many others are particularly important. i agree with the rapporteur, mr joão ferreira, when he puts forward several proposals in his report, including the call for more accessible data on the marine economy, in line with the commission's ideas. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the marine environment against pollution caused by nitrates from agricultural sources. i am glad that all the political groups have agreed to this line.
in writing. marine and coastal tourism accounts for one third of all tourist activities in europe. i have always argued that we should focus much more on tourism in order to create jobs and to create better conditions for the economic and social development of our territories. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which contains the appropriate policy guidelines for strengthening the blue economy in europe.
in writing. ‒ a sustainable development of the blue economy can significantly promote economic growth and development and job creation, especially for coastal regions, outermost regions and island countries, while taking into account the specific and different needs of each geographical area. as the marine environment is fragile, i voted in favour of the report because i believe that both the eu and the member states must invest adequate economic resources in research and innovation aimed at increasing both knowledge of the marine environment and its economic potential, while fully respecting the sustainable exploitation of resources.
in writing. ‒ since ancient times, the sea has been considered a source of resources: maritime transport was an important means of transport for people and goods until the end of the 19th century, while fishing was and remains an important source of food and income for coastal peoples. over the last 50 years, however, the relationship between man and the sea has changed profoundly. many of the major societal challenges facing humanity today can be addressed by better knowledge of the marine environment and a better ability to use, manage and conserve the resources of our seas, oceans and coastal regions. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that education, training, research and development are essential elements in order to promote a sustainable blue economy and to make the best use of the marine resources available.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this resolution because it leads to the exploitation of mineral resources, which irreparably damages marine ecosystems. it also seriously damages the articulated and multidimensional plexus of the blue economy which, on the contrary, the resolution should promote to make it incoherent, unsustainable, contrary to scientific evidence and the precautionary principle. the resolution authorises mining exploration, oil and natural gas drilling, extraction and exploitation of mineral resources on the high seas, including those areas of special environmental interest (apei), in violation of the precautionary principle.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of these proposals, which are good and sensible in principle.
in writing. ‒ i have expressed my consent to this measure. the concept of the blue economy covers a wide range of economic sectors related to the seas and oceans, including traditional or established sectors and emerging sectors. the sustainable development of the blue economy requires greater investment in innovation and research and underlines the role of new technologies in countering the degradation of marine ecosystems, as well as the links between the blue and green economies. investments must focus on eco-innovation, resource efficiency, nature conservation, marine and coastal protection and climate change mitigation. the committee also called for more support for the modernisation and sustainable development of the fisheries and fishery products processing sectors, with a view to creating greater added value.
in writing. ‒ the concept of the blue economy encompasses various sectors of economic activity linked to the seas and oceans, which are now a powerful engine of the european economy and a potential for innovation, growth and employment. it is of paramount importance to propose a definition of the blue economy covering all production and employment at sea, to protect and safeguard the marine natural environments in order to sustain and develop the blue economy. we must prevent the same mistakes being made on land from being made in the seas and oceans, and we must avoid exploiting resources in ways that lead to their depletion and unsustainability. education, training and research must be essential tools for the development of the blue economy. i therefore felt it my duty to support my colleague.
in writing. ‒ on the assumption that the blue economy has always been one of the pillars of the european economy, and considering its potential in terms of supporting economic growth and employment within the member states, i considered myself able to vote in favour of the intention to implement innovation, research and development in this area.
in writing. ‒ by properly exploiting the opportunities offered by our maritime heritage, we will be able to create jobs and growth, particularly in the islands. the concept of the blue economy covers a wide range of sectors of economic activity related to the seas and oceans, including traditional and emerging sectors. education and training, research and development are essential elements for the sustainable development of the blue economy. i think it is important to assess the compatibility of existing programmes and measures (including financing) with the objectives of developing the blue economy, as well as the interaction between the different existing structures and programmes and their results. i therefore decided to support this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the blue economy is about shaping and promoting the right strategy to support sustainable growth in the marine and maritime sectors. key elements for seizing all the opportunities offered by the blue economy are training, education, development and research. for these reasons, after having contributed to the text with a few amendments, i am voting in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe the text is consistent with its aims of creating jobs and growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, despite several points on which we agree, including the need to ensure that the exploitation of marine resources is balanced with the rates of regeneration (and safeguarding) of ecosystems, ensuring that the precautionary principle and the ecosystem approach are at the heart of the blue economy. however, in line with this principle, we cannot accept that the exploration and exploitation of offshore mineral and energy resources should be included in the definition of the blue economy. these industrial activities are short-lived, do not lead to long-term job creation and end up irreversibly destroying the benthic ecosystems we say we want to protect. we must have a moratorium on such activities in order to encourage the development and use of sustainable renewable energy sources. this is a red line, not just for us in the m5s, but also to ensure the prosperity of future generations.
in writing. ‒ the blue economy is a key tool for the development of the european countries bordering the mediterranean. many of the social and employment challenges can only be met by better understanding of the marine environment and its potential. in recent years, the seabed has been increasingly used for the exploitation of energy resources, particularly for the extraction of mineral resources. however, a conscious use of blue resources cannot be done without respect for sustainable development. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which calls for stimulating exchanges between young european entrepreneurs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because i believe that it is essential for the future of europe to teach our young people the importance of entrepreneurship and to encourage them to start their own business so that they can fully exploit all the positive effects.
in writing. ‒ educating young people in entrepreneurship can only be possible if real collaboration with schools is activated: the more interdisciplinary and open the school is to the outside world, the greater the chances of success of entrepreneurship training. although the number of young startups that fail before reaching the market is very high, it is documented that an entrepreneur with a second experience has a better chance of success and that pilot projects to start entrepreneurship in schools have given positive feedback. therefore, since young people are our future, not just economically, it is necessary to support entrepreneurship education and start-ups through a widespread dissemination of school projects on the subject integrated with the business world and supporting the eu's microcredit fund so that young talent seeking capital has a friendly institution to which they can turn to try to put their ideas into practice.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report calling for the stimulation of exchanges between young entrepreneurs in europe, as with the erasmus programme for young entrepreneurs. although i am essentially critical, i do not hesitate to support reports which, at least in their content, try to steer the european commission's policies in reasonable directions (in this case the entrepreneurial spirit of young people).
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution on promoting youth entrepreneurship through education and training. entrepreneurship education can be extremely effective in motivating young people and influencing their decision to embark on a career in entrepreneurship and helping them to succeed in that career. it is clearer than ever at this historic moment that europe must encourage the creativity and responsible behaviour of young people, helping them to manage their risk-taking capacity and to believe in their own ideas. although entrepreneurship is undoubtedly a personal gift, recent studies show that entrepreneurial skills can be acquired through a process of education and training: entrepreneurship education has a positive effect on individuals, helping to increase their career ambitions, improving skills, entrepreneurial attitudes and creative thinking, with enormous positive effects on the whole economy. i have decided to vote in favour of the text, considering that entrepreneurship, and in particular small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), is the backbone of the eu economy and the most important and main source of new jobs.
in writing. ‒ the report presents a marked functionalization of education systems to the teaching of a business model in which there is no reference to the awareness that learners must have human rights, the dignity of workers, the maximum environmental protection to be implemented in the creation of a business activity. the only reference to csr is used to encourage private funding and greater participation by private individuals in the provision of training. i voted against it. for these reasons, i voted against the report by the michaela šojdrová college.
in writing. ‒ in the light of worrying data on youth unemployment in the eu, which in some member states is over 50%, education and entrepreneurship education also appear to be tools to support employment. entrepreneurship education at all levels of education and learning plays a crucial role, also in order to promote the entrepreneurial spirit of young people by fostering their capacity for initiative, creativity and innovation. therefore, the integration of educational standards for entrepreneurship education for young people into the national education system, as well as the provision of training programmes for teachers, can contribute to the creation of new enterprises, allowing an increase in employment (in line with the objectives set in the europe 2020 strategy). the resolution also stresses the need for member states to make an effective commitment to using all the financial resources made available by the eu - in particular, under the erasmus+ and erasmus for young entrepreneurs programmes - with the aim of strengthening the links between business and education, sharing best practice, encouraging mobility, thereby creating the conditions for fostering entrepreneurial culture among young people regardless of their socioeconomic status and gender. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to promote entrepreneurship among young people through education and training. as of february 2015, the number of young unemployed in europe was around 5 million. the average youth unemployment rate in the eu is 22%, but in some member states and regions it is over 50%. in order to combat youth unemployment and to educate and train young people in entrepreneurship, parliament called on the member states to promote the entrepreneurial skills of young people through legislative initiatives aimed at ensuring quality traineeships. calls on the commission to promote policies for young people (erasmus+) to develop their entrepreneurial skills; calls on the member states and regional and local authorities to work towards promoting the implementation of training activities for the start-up and management of start-ups and to make full use of the resources of the eu structural funds, and in particular the european social fund, in order to promote entrepreneurship education and training and the development of digital skills, as well as the easi, cosme, erasmus for young entrepreneurs and the european youth employment initiative funds;
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report in the hope that it is just the first step in a wider strategy to stimulate entrepreneurship in europe. creative destruction (to quote schumpeter), the ability to break patterns to bring new products or innovations to market, to imagine a different world where needs are different and new ways to meet them are needed, is something that must start with education. it is good to learn what schools already teach, but even better if the education system focuses on creating what europe needs most: the job. i congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work.
in writing. ‒ the latest statistics show that in february 2015, 4.85 million young people were unemployed in the eu-28, a slight decrease from the previous year, but certainly unacceptable. considering that youth entrepreneurship must be an important element of the policy strategy to support the current generation in terms of growth, employment and social inclusion and to serve as a tool to reduce youth unemployment in the european union, i consider it essential and a priority to promote the entrepreneurial spirit in young people through the inclusion of specific initiatives within the training programme and the school curriculum, which can stimulate entrepreneurship training. i therefore support this report because i strongly believe in the need to establish specific programmes at all levels of education which progressively develop a strong entrepreneurial culture and which ensure that young people complete their personal baggage with specific and practical skills and abilities. these skills will only be developed through the introduction of modules on basic finance, economics and the business environment and the establishment of activities and supporting figures, mentoring and career guidance for students, as well as the development of ict skills, which will enable young people to exploit the full potential of the digital world.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because the report presents a marked functionalization of education systems to the teaching of a business model in which there is no reference to the awareness that learners must have human rights, the dignity of workers, the maximum environmental protection to be implemented in the creation of a business activity. all the amendments in the cult committee have been rejected. there is only one reference to csr, but it is used to encourage private funding and greater participation by private individuals in the provision of training.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that healthy youth entrepreneurship can act as a driver for economic growth across europe and consequently reduce the levels of unemployment, especially youth unemployment, which persist in several member states. i believe that young people need to develop not only an entrepreneurial mindset but also the cross-sectoral or occupational skills and knowledge that only education and training that is able to respond (adequately) to current and future challenges can provide. we are experimenting with the youth guarantee, but the results are not always satisfactory. the strategy contains important breakthroughs in the approach to the entry of young people into the labour market, in particular on the concept of self-employment. however, a system still prevails which favours the welfare aspects, which rarely succeed in giving positive feedback in terms of stabilisation. we must start from the analysis of the limits of this experience to construct a roadmap that really makes europe an added value for the younger generations.
in writing. ‒ the report describes a business model in which there is no reference to the dignity of work and environmental protection. the amendments proposed in this connection in the cult committee were rejected. the sole reference to csr is used to encourage private funding, thus hoping for greater private participation in training provision. the report says that entrepreneurship should be taught at all stages of education, from primary school to university. it reiterates that entrepreneurship must be one of the learning objectives of students and, in this regard, calls on the commission to use the resources made available by the juncker plan and the european social fund by supporting partnerships between schools and enterprises. i personally am against a business model that is based solely on the triangle of entrepreneurship, financial literacy and speed of work because i think it is a short-sighted view; i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support this report which calls for stimulating exchanges between young entrepreneurs in europe, as with the erasmus programme for young entrepreneurs.
in writing. ‒ with youth unemployment approaching 50% in some parts of europe, medium- and long-term measures, including those affecting different levels, are also needed. education is one of those areas which has been too often neglected from the point of view of entrepreneurial training. young people have great potential which must be stimulated and realised to the full. i voted in favour of the report, hoping that the commission would take concrete action soon.
in writing. the dangers of social exclusion and youth extremism are already being combated at school and indeed a greater focus on training activities and growth opportunities to facilitate the transition from school to work is the best medicine to make the choices to be made more easily in the phase of integration into the professional field. digitalisation, language learning, entrepreneurship education, investment in continuing training for teachers, and university courses directly geared to the labour market, linked to networks of small and medium-sized enterprises. the union is investing in the future that young people are called upon to build, by supporting them with training options that educate them to build a modern, international, open, inclusive and constantly evolving idea of professionalism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on promoting the entrepreneurial spirit among young people through education and training because i believe that entrepreneurship should be understood as the ability to turn ideas into concrete actions. the europe 2020 strategy and related initiatives promote entrepreneurship and are the backbone of the eu economy. education and training are the basis of the personal development of each individual, and equal access to students, regardless of their socioeconomic status, must be guaranteed, providing real support to enable them to achieve these goals. the development of networks linking the different stages of education and bringing together former students should be encouraged so that all barriers are broken down, with the sole aim of the strength-building union of young people with the elderly, men with women, disabled people with the community. the council and the commission must deal with the methodology, communication and financial instruments to encourage the participation of young people in the field of entrepreneurship. i therefore hope for a comprehensive strategy that creates real employment through adequate training and that is an expression of the overall european vision that must always distinguish the eu member states.
in writing. i have given a favourable opinion on this proposal. youth entrepreneurship is an important and integral part of the policy strategy to support the current generation of young people in the context of the eu's objectives for growth, employment and social inclusion. the figures for youth unemployment in europe are unfortunately high and in addition to the support and facilitation measures which have been put in place so far, we must think of structural measures to bring about a definitive reversal of course. the role of lifelong learning and international mobility as key measures in europe's response to globalisation and the transition to knowledge-based economies should be recognised, and member states should be encouraged to promote entrepreneurial skills among young people.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report 'promoting entrepreneurship in young people through education'. youth entrepreneurship is a relevant factor in supporting and encouraging the current generation in the framework of the eu objectives for growth, employment and reducing youth unemployment in the european union. support and encourage the skills and competences of young entrepreneurs, including through specific programmes such as business projects, start-ups, formal education also for all students enabling them to learn from experienced entrepreneurs running small businesses, in order to increase participation and support for entrepreneurship among young people.
in writing. ‒ entrepreneurship, and in particular social entrepreneurship, is a key component of economic recovery and social cohesion. the report presented by ms sojdrova stresses the importance of providing for the development of entrepreneurial skills throughout all stages of education. i agree with the purpose and structure of the document and have therefore decided to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ today's europe needs more than ever an approach that supports creativity, the ability to see risks as opportunities, the management of failures and responsible behaviour among young people. entrepreneurship education can be a very effective tool and response. the report i supported in the cult committee and in the plenary refers to the development of entrepreneurial skills at all levels of education and distinguishes the specificities of each stage, without forgetting the importance of lifelong learning, whether formal, non-formal or informal, in all contexts and at all levels. i think it is appropriate to emphasize the strategic objectives to be pursued: to achieve lifelong learning and mobility; to improve the quality and effectiveness of education and training; promoting equity, social cohesion and active citizenship; i would like to thank the commissioner for his report and for the work he has done in this area. i am sure that the european commission will be active in this regard in identifying and developing standards for entrepreneurship education and for their integration into national programmes, with a strong focus on teacher training and, with the necessary funding - also through erasmus+ and erasmus for young entrepreneurs - monitoring and evaluating the results in their socio-economic impact.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this motion for a resolution because we believe that a comprehensive strategy should be devised and implemented to promote entrepreneurship among young people through specific training courses. we believe that the growth of entrepreneurial activity goes hand in hand with a country's innovation potential and that together these two elements contribute strongly to economic growth and greater prosperity. in particular, we appreciate the reference to the importance of lifelong learning and international mobility and we consider it essential to introduce courses aimed at developing entrepreneurial skills, clearly modulated according to the different levels of education, so that these skills are not only the subject of specific training but are, more generally, a widespread and shared heritage of the society of tomorrow. finally, we would stress that the increase in entrepreneurship can also be a good solution to alleviate the phenomenon of youth unemployment, which in many european countries has now reached more than worrying levels.
in writing. ‒ as you know, i am particularly interested in the development and support of entrepreneurship, and i work hard on this issue within the itre committee, of which i am a member. it is therefore with enthusiasm that i decided to vote in favour because i believe that a systematic european approach to youth entrepreneurship education is indispensable in order to support the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. ‒ too often the european system fails to prepare the new generations adequately for the challenges of the world of work. entrepreneurship, with all its interdisciplinary corollaries, requires more and more skills. this report emphasises the importance of developing entrepreneurial skills at all levels of education, distinguishing the specificities of each stage, and provides guidance on how to achieve these objectives at both community and national level. the report sets out a number of political priorities which i consider to be of great importance. among these i would like to highlight the proposal to provide, at all levels and in all types of education, the teaching of practical entrepreneurial skills and to encourage motivation, initiative and availability, as well as a sense of social responsibility. the resolution also refers to media and digital skills, which need to be given greater consideration in education and training. i have decided to support this report wholeheartedly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe that, at both community and national level, a well-defined plan should be followed to promote the development of entrepreneurial skills at all levels of education. we need to promote entrepreneurship in young people through education and training, and encourage elements such as private enterprise and social responsibility. it is important to teach entrepreneurial skills at a practical level and to develop media and digital skills in each student so that they can contribute to the european economic recovery.
in writing. ‒ supporting youth entrepreneurship through cultural, legal and economic instruments is essential to foster development and growth. primary and secondary education is crucial to enable young people to acquire the skills needed to enter the world of work or to start a business. university education is also important, as it allows research, innovation and creativity to develop as a basis for building the enterprises of the future. entrepreneurship education needs to be encouraged at all levels to encourage young people to start and build their own businesses, but at the same time it needs to be ensured that they have the tools to tackle all the challenges of starting a business. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i find the diaconu report to be agreeable and balanced, particularly when it analyses the prospects offered by the economic potential of culture and the strengthening of specific programmes to promote the values and common heritage of europe and our territories; i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because i believe that the union should seek to develop an integrated approach to european cultural heritage to enable it to develop harmoniously and to have a positive impact on the territory in economic and non-economic terms.
in writing. ‒ cultural heritage, both tangible and intangible, in its various historical, artistic and landscape aspects, is a major development resource for the european union. it must be regarded as a non-renewable resource, to be protected and promoted in a consistent manner and whose authenticity must be protected. the commission should support what is already in place through various programmes (creative europe, horizon 2020, erasmus, europe for citizens), funding (european structural and investment funds) and actions such as the european capitals of culture, the european heritage days and the european heritage label and propose a plan by the union and the member states to support culture and research through enhanced cooperation between strategic sectors dealing with cultural heritage, reporting to parliament on the results of this closer cooperation, and designating, preferably for 2018, a european year of cultural heritage, with an appropriate budget, with the aim, inter alia, of spreading and strengthening awareness and education among future generations about the value of european cultural heritage and its safeguarding, and presenting to parliament a draft programme for the european year no later than 2016.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the resolution as it rightly calls for much more attention to be paid to europe's cultural heritage. many steps are shared, from the economic potential of culture to the financing of specific programmes.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the chamber, i voted today in favour of the report on the european parliament's motion for a resolution on an integrated approach to cultural heritage for europe. achieving cultural dialogue and mutual understanding between nations and their traditions is one of the objectives that can best lead to the strengthening of social, economic and territorial cohesion. in particular, i join those who believe that it is essential to develop a truly democratic and participatory dialogue on the european heritage, including that of religious and ethnic minorities. i am also referring to cultural heritage sites that contain diverse or contested histories. i agree with those who believe that reconciliation processes should not result in the suppression of the historical consciousness of communities. member states should be invited to reflect on the ethics and methods of presenting cultural heritage and to take account of the diversity of interpretations.
in writing. ‒ the report's aim, namely to promote europe's cultural heritage in an integrated way, both in terms of governance and in terms of the collection and use of funds, is certainly commendable. the text put to the vote, however, has criticisms which cannot be overlooked: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the european union's cultural heritage is based on the following considerations: the juncker plan as a key reference point for the economic chapter, a public-private partnership in which the aspects of corporate social responsibility and fundamental rights are not considered as essential, the fact that the negative impact assessment on aspects of cultural heritage has no value as a basis for the continuation of work on the dossier, or the lack of assurance about the processing of data concentrated in very few hands. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the resolution adopted, which follows the commission's communication of the same name of last july, urges the commission to protect and enhance europe's diverse cultural heritage, in the awareness of the strategic importance and potential, not only in economic terms but also for the eu as well as for individual states, of this common heritage: the european union is a global community of citizens, and its activities are based on the principles of the european union. on the one hand, these protection and development objectives must be integrated, across the board, into all the union's policies, fostering collaboration and synergies between those responsible for the various fields of intervention (education, tourism, environment, employment, social cohesion, regional development, taxation); this applies in particular to the various aspects of european cultural tourism, which is an important driver of growth, employment and local economic development, especially for smes. on the other hand, further and specific funding strategies need to be adopted, including by strengthening the principle of multiple funding allowing for the complementary use of several funds within the same large-scale project and by promoting new governance models and public/private partnerships. the establishment of a single eu portal dedicated to cultural heritage, and also containing information on all relevant funding programmes, will be useful. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on an integrated approach to cultural heritage for europe. cultural heritage, tangible and intangible, plays a significant role in promoting the values, culture and identities of europeans. the ep considers it essential to use the available resources to support, enhance and promote europe's cultural heritage. to this end, the european parliament, by this resolution, calls for the establishment of a european year of cultural heritage (possibly in 2018), the creation of a regulatory framework for the protection and enhancement of monuments, archaeology and historic landscapes, a dedicated single portal collecting data from eu cultural heritage funding programmes, the promotion of public-private partnerships and the increase of the benchmark from eur 5 million to eur 10 million for cultural heritage projects submitted under the small infrastructure action, in line with the unesco convention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report not only because i share the idea of protecting culture in europe more, but above all because of the way in which it proposes to achieve this objective: reducing red tape, simplifying decision-making, creating a portal dedicated solely to european cultural heritage, structuring a database with information on how to find the site that best suits your interests, including through comments and reviews, among the wide range of opportunities offered by culture in europe, establishing a european year dedicated to cultural heritage, and so on. i hope that these words will be followed by concrete action. the citizens are not asking for intentions but for action, and above all for action to be taken in a timely manner.
in writing. ‒ cultural heritage, as well as being an invaluable source of identity for european citizens, is to be seen as a valuable long-term economic resource and the main vehicle for the development of the tertiary sector market. in particular, cultural tourism, which accounts for 40% of european tourism, is a key economic sector in terms of potential for growth and employment, the development of which should be further strengthened through the use of new technologies and the protection of which should be an indispensable prerogative, through the development of sustainable forms of tourism that ensure these benefits in the coming decades. the control of cultural heritage is the responsibility of several directorates-general of the european commission and i therefore agree that the only way to exploit the synergies of these independent actors is through the coordination and integrated organisation of activities aimed at the enhancement of this invaluable heritage. to achieve this, i am in favour of the establishment of a single european union portal on cultural heritage, which will collect information from all community programmes for the financing of cultural heritage, a database of examples of good practice and excellence in the field of cultural heritage, news and links on policy developments, actions and historical events relating to cultural heritage.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that europe's immense cultural heritage presents both opportunities and challenges. while cultural heritage through tourism could feed the european economy by developing new jobs, innovative products and services, it must be protected. in particular, i welcome the possibility of developing participatory governance models for the cultural heritage sector that enhance it as a shared resource at all local, regional, national and european levels. as the shadow rapporteur for the committee on regional development, i would like to stress that, important as they are, small projects and operations must in no way exclude medium-sized projects and operations. we have examples of artistic and cultural heritage to be recovered and enhanced, which require considerable resources. the structural funds are the only way not only to avoid wasting this wealth, but above all to stimulate further investment and private capital.
in writing. ‒ europe's cultural heritage has enormous social and economic potential: it is therefore time to put culture at the heart of the eu's political agenda. new and effective synergies should be created around europe's cultural heritage by using a single information and policy platform, increasing funding, encouraging the conservation and enhancement of cultural heritage, including through eu programmes. the designation of a european year of cultural heritage can also be an important opportunity to raise awareness that cultural heritage is a source of wealth, social innovation for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to highlight the importance of european cultural heritage, both tangible (architecture, landscape) and intangible (languages, traditions, music), as a key factor in the preservation of european culture and history, as well as regional and local realities, and in safeguarding the values linked to european identity. i voted in favour of this report to ask the european commission to promote cultural heritage by providing appropriate grant strategies and to strengthen the principle of multiple funding which allows the complementary use of several european funds within the same project. the report also highlights the important economic potential of cultural heritage, as it contributes to the creation of jobs, products, services and new innovative processes.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this resolution which rightly and emphatically calls for much more attention to be paid to europe's cultural heritage. many steps are shared, from the economic potential of culture to the financing of specific programmes.
in writing. europe holds the vast majority of sites of cultural interest: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the debate on the future of the european union, but i am saying that it should be involved in the debate on the future of the european union. i would particularly stress the objective of better coordinating the use of the structural funds for these objectives: in times of financial constraints, it is essential to ensure better use of available public resources, especially in risky sectors such as culture.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on an integrated approach to cultural heritage for europe, as i believe that the cultural and linguistic diversity of the union must be supported in order to promote the growth of the cultural and creative sectors. although competences in the field of restoration, conservation and accessibility of cultural heritage are primarily national responsibilities, article 167 tfeu underlines that the eu promotes the development of the member states' culture. i therefore believe that it is necessary to define a european year of cultural heritage through cultural dialogue. so that future generations know how to respect and protect its values; the creation of a single eu portal bringing together information on all union cultural heritage funding programmes. i also believe that cultural heritage promotes economic growth through new jobs, innovative products and services; this is a very important aspect of the european union's external relations. to this end, it is necessary to improve the organisation of the fight against the theft, smuggling and illicit trafficking of cultural property within and outside the union, bearing in mind that cultural heritage is the most tangible testimony of our history and holds inestimable value for every people.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal. the report calls for the creation of a single portal dedicated to cultural heritage and accessible to all those involved in the sector for research related to existing eu funding. it is of key importance to use available resources to support, enhance and promote cultural heritage, based on an integrated approach, which takes into account the cultural, socio-economic, educational, environmental and scientific components.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report 'towards an integrated approach to cultural heritage for europe'. in line with the objectives of the european agenda for culture, this text sets out the eu's approach to its heritage in the different policy areas in order to help safeguard and enhance the intrinsic and social value of cultural heritage. this heritage is a valuable resource for economic growth, employment and social cohesion.
in writing. ‒ the implementation of projects to enhance cultural heritage has a positive impact on economic activity and, in general, on the entrepreneurial capacity of small and medium-sized enterprises. i particularly appreciated the report's proposal to set up a single portal dedicated to cultural heritage, accessible to all those involved in the sector, with the aim of facilitating research into existing european funding. i agree with the approach and the aims of the text and have therefore decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i am speaking to stress the need for an integrated approach to european cultural heritage, both tangible (architecture, landscapes) and intangible (such as languages, traditions, music and practices also linked to religious heritage) as a fundamental factor for the preservation of european culture and history, as well as regional and local realities, and for the safeguarding of the values underlying european identity. in order to raise awareness and education about the value of european cultural heritage and the need to protect it, the resolution which i strongly supported and voted for appropriately calls on the european commission to establish, preferably in 2018, the european year of cultural heritage. the commission is also asked to provide for appropriate funding strategies which, in addition to strengthening programmes and mechanisms already provided for by community legislation, establish a dedicated single eu portal for all community programmes. last but not least, the resolution stresses the strategic potential of europe's cultural heritage as a source of creative ideas and innovative jobs, products, services and processes. in summary, european cultural tourism is also an important driver of growth, sustainable local development and employment.
in writing. ‒ culture is often seen as a sector detached from the economy and is often among the first budget items to suffer the consequences of cuts in public spending by the state. i believe that it must become one of the main engines of european economic development. the european cultural heritage must be enhanced and preserved so that it can be passed on to future generations and be known throughout the world. let us remember that culture is our greatest asset and an integral part of our identity.
in writing. ‒ culture is without doubt the most important intangible resource for our continent. europe is and must continue to be a world-class cultural powerhouse. to continue to be so, it is essential to have the most appropriate tools and a more integrated approach. the report calls for the creation of a single portal dedicated to cultural heritage and accessible to all those involved in the sector for research related to existing eu funding. it also calls for the designation of a european year of cultural heritage, possibly in 2018. the committee also calls for the ceiling of 5 million for structural funds funding (for small infrastructure projects to preserve europe's cultural heritage) to be raised to 10 million, as provided for in the unesco convention. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the creation of a single portal for cultural heritage, where all experts in the field can consult the relevant eu funding. as a member of the committee on transport and tourism, i would like to see a european year of cultural heritage, possibly in 2018. as provided for in the unesco convention, i agree to call for the ceiling for structural funds funding to be raised from 5 million to 10 million so that culture and tourism can play a decisive role in europe's growth and job creation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the text rightly calls for much more attention to be paid to europe's cultural heritage.
in writing. ‒ the terms 'culture' and 'economy' seem to belong to two completely different fields, but in reality the cultural heritage sector has enormous economic potential. it is a shared resource and a common good. i therefore considered it appropriate to vote in favour of an integrated approach as it can lead to the strengthening of social, economic and territorial cohesion, while also contributing to the achievement of the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. the report sets out the instruments available at european level, complementing national and regional programmes, to protect and enhance the intrinsic and social value of cultural heritage and thus strengthen its contribution to economic growth and job creation. i am convinced that an important step has been taken towards strengthening political cooperation at various levels and towards new models of european governance.
in writing. ‒ cultural heritage is without doubt one of the greatest assets for the european territory. however, a number of barriers and inefficiencies are damaging the cultural sector and preventing its full economic potential from being exploited. to overcome these difficulties, it is necessary that funding for the protection of artistic property be adapted to the needs of maintenance and restoration, but above all it is essential that there be serious quality control in respect of these operations. another relevant theme is the enhancement of the artistic heritage through digitisation that respects the past and makes culture as inclusive as possible. to meet these challenges, i voted in favour of this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great satisfaction that we voted in favour of and supported the adoption of the boylan report. a report which follows on from an ice initiative, which was signed by almost two million people, an important achievement for us as the gue/ngl group. this is an important achievement, especially for the almost two million people who have reaffirmed that public water is a human right, as already established by the un, and it is essential that today it is established that the european union must recognize this and the states must guarantee this right. it is an important result, and we hope that it will pave the way for the referendum voted by 27 million people in italy, which is still awaiting implementation, to finally be implemented.
in writing. - i found the boylan report shareable. i think that the commission's follow-up to the citizens' initiative 'water is a right' is unsatisfactory. it is necessary to stress and demand that water and sanitation are not subject to forced privatisation imposed on member states by mechanisms such as the troika or the european semester; i also believe it is imperative that these goods and services are not included in trade agreements with third countries, such as ttip, because first and foremost we must protect our citizens and our territories. in view of the above, i intend to support the text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because i believe that the european citizens' initiative is a unique democratic instrument with a significant potential to help bridge the gap between european and national social and civil society movements and to promote participatory democracy at eu level. that is why i think it is important to support this type of initiative, especially when it deals with such an important subject as the right of access to water resources.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative promoted by the right2water campaign reached 1.9 million signatures, the first eci to reach this important threshold of membership, a sign of how strongly the european people feel about the theme of public and common ownership of water and the right of everyone to access it. without water there is no life and the possibility of accessing water resources together with the hygienic-sanitary quality and the adequate consistency of the same is one of the most important and delicate issues not only in the history of mankind but also in the most recent events. the defence of public water must be an opportunity to revive - also culturally - the vision of life and human dignity as intangible, overcoming the neoliberal vision that treats man and his activities as any commodity. the ice of the right2water campaign must be followed up in practice by citizens, whose will has been clearly and unequivocally expressed, and is necessary to prevent a dangerous and serious drift towards the privatisation of europe's water services and resources. at the heart of eu partnerships must be the defence of access to common goods and the human right to water, which is now more than ever a universal commons.
in writing. - i voted yes. the report rightly laments that the commission's follow-up to the iec 'water is a right' is unsatisfactory, as it is limited to a communication and does not go beyond reiterating existing commitments. we add: ice is a mirror for the larks. we've always said that, easy prophets. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's water and sanitation policies are not subject to forced privatisation imposed on member states by troika or european semester, or included in trade agreements with third countries (such as ttip) and the services directive. in this respect, it is also established that the privatisation of basic services in the 1990s in developing countries has, inter alia, hampered the achievement of the millennium development goals on water and sanitation (see recital n). the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr genscher, and the commission has been asked to vote on the report by mr genscher, and the commission has been asked to vote on the report by mr genscher, and the commission has been asked to vote on the report by mr genscher, and the commission has been asked to vote on the report by mr genscher, and the commission has been asked to vote on the report by mr genscher, and the commission has been asked to vote on the report by mr genscher, and the commission has been asked to vote on the report by mr genscher, and the commission has been asked to vote on the report by mr genscher.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution on the initiative 'water is a right'. access to safe drinking water and sanitation is essential for life, and the proper management of water resources plays a key role in ensuring sustainable water use. improving the supply of drinking water and sanitation is an effective way to pursue key objectives such as poverty eradication and to promote social equality, public health, food security and economic growth. water is not a commodity to be traded but a public good essential to human life and dignity and therefore privatisation of water companies in any procedure for the coordination of the eu's economic strategy must be avoided. it is crucial to support this european citizens' initiative (eci), which has already garnered enormous support with almost two million signatures, as it represents an excellent opportunity for the eu institutions to re-engage citizens in their political action, as well as to promote participatory democracy at community level.
in writing. ‒ i am strongly convinced that access to a basic water requirement must be an unquestionable fundamental human right, implicitly and explicitly recognised by international law. i therefore voted in favour of the report, hoping that it would respond positively to all the demands made by the signatories of the citizens' initiative 'right2water', which has reached almost 1.9 million signatures.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against the report on the follow-up to the european citizens' initiative 'right2water'. the measure calls for the recognition and enforcement of the right to water and sanitation, the permanent exclusion of water and sanitation from internal market rules and the full integration of universal access to water and sanitation into eu development policies. the ppe group, which voted against the report in committee, considered the content of the report in question to be insufficient and not in line with its prerogatives.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on this own-initiative report from the committee because i believe that it deals partially and incompletely with the problems relating to the right to water and sanitation for european citizens. the specific requests expressed in the ice were not considered with due care, existing commitments were merely reiterated and no comprehensive conclusion was reached, which could reconcile the divergent views on this issue. in addition, in the text of mr boylan's report, certain issues are dealt with in a superficial and misleading way, particularly as regards the privatisation of water services: the report is against it, without any clear explanation. on the contrary, i believe that the interaction between the public and private sectors is an innovative solution that benefits the economy as a whole, because water companies and responsible public authorities can cooperate to improve water services. another reason why i think it appropriate to abstain is that the amendments proposed in the alternative motion for a resolution by the ppe and ecr have not been adopted. however, i did not think it appropriate to vote against it, so as not to be misunderstood as referring to the universality of access to water.
in writing. i welcome the community citizens' initiative on the right to water because it is a democratic instrument of active participation by the european population. mr boylan's report highlights the importance of the primary good of water and its use, which must also be guaranteed to the most disadvantaged and vulnerable populations in terms of the supply of drinking water and the provision of sanitation and hygiene services. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the right to water is unquestionable and undeniable in any way. the community objective is to improve the transparency and ensure the quality and efficiency of water services by promoting better management of water services in a way that enhances standards of public health, food security and economic growth. i believe that the administration of water services should remain the responsibility of the individual states, which retain the power to decide on the allocation and management of water resources on the basis of respect for the principle of subsidiarity, according to which the local authorities closest to the citizens are responsible for the provision of water services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution firstly because i believe that the european citizens' initiative is an important democratic instrument for promoting participatory democracy at european level; i also believe that access to water and sanitation is a human right and a fundamental value for all european citizens, which must be protected at all levels of european, local, national and european governance. the vast majority of europeans believe that water is not a commodity but a common good. it is right that parliament, the greatest democratic institution in europe, should listen to the voice of the citizens and give concrete answers on such sensitive and sensitive issues that concern us all and the sustainability of our future.
in writing. ‒ the problem with the european citizens' initiative, as it stands, is the european commission's lack of ambition to follow up on successful initiatives, such as the ice right 2 water initiative which has collected almost two million signatures. we need to improve ice so it doesn't disappear. we have a serious problem: there is a wide gap between what happens in the european institutions and what people perceive the eu to be. unfortunately, this motion does not meet the demands made by the ice organizers, namely that water and sanitation be excluded from the rules on the internal market, from the liberalization and free trade agreements. however, this motion contains many positive elements, such as some of the amendments we have tabled, which stress that access to a basic water requirement must be an unquestionable fundamental human right, which must be recognized by international law and through which governments and local communities are called upon to commit themselves to providing a minimum supply of water for all. finally, the final position of parliament, which urged the commission to ensure the legally binding exclusion of water, sanitation and waste water services from the ttip negotiations, was certainly positive. i voted yes.
in writing. - let's vote for the report. the commission's follow-up to the ice 'water is a right' is unsatisfactory, having limited itself to a communication that goes no further than reiterating existing commitments.
in writing. i am pleased that the citizens' initiative on the right to water has reached almost 2 million signatures. the instrument launched by the lisbon treaty was designed to give a tangible sign of closeness to active citizens, so we should be pleased with the great work of mobilisation and the result achieved. moreover, we are pleased with the substance of the proposal, which touches on public interests of the greatest importance to our communities. the protection of access to water is a crucial issue for modern european society, and effective and far-sighted action by the commission will be needed to meet these demands.
in writing. ‒ i shared and voted in favour of the ep resolution following the european citizens' initiative right2water, because i believe that water is a human right and a public good, and as such not subject to privatisation or market laws, but available for citizens' needs at affordable prices. as the italian referendum demonstrated, citizens are strongly defending the nature of water as a public good. i therefore share the concern expressed in this report about water poverty, which affects almost 1 million eu citizens, and the call to avoid interruptions in water services and supplies for those citizens in greatest need. austerity policies and an overly commercialist worldview risk turning water from a public good into a market product, in violation of european culture and the demands of our citizens. i also welcome the fact that this report is the direct expression of a civic initiative which has gathered almost 2 million signatures in defence of water as an inalienable public good. i therefore join the rapporteur in calling on the commission to respond to the wishes of the citizens by presenting a legislative proposal to intervene, within the limits of its powers, on the subject of public water.
in writing. ‒ today we adopted the first report to be produced as a result of a european citizens' initiative. 'water is a right' (right2water) is the first initiative to have met the requirements of regulation (eu) no 211/2011 and to have collected over 1.5 million signatures. the draft report calls, among other things, for the recognition and application of the right to water and sanitation. i have supported this report, given the importance of the subject, in reaffirming the concept of water as a public good. however, it is necessary to take account of the differences between the member states and to distinguish between water as a public good and the way in which the water service is managed. our aim is to ensure the most efficient service possible for our citizens. unfortunately, we sometimes see inadequate public management, which leads to waste and lack of services. in contrast, public/private partnerships, which maintain water as a public good, can ensure an efficient service without any increase in costs for citizens.
in writing. ‒ in favour of the resolution following the european citizens' initiative 'water is a right'. the text calls on the commission to submit legislative proposals to enshrine the right to water and to oppose the privatisation of water services. the aim of the report is to encourage the eu to step up its efforts to ensure universal access to safe drinking water and sanitation, and to activate effective legislative instruments that make the human right to water a reality as a vital good and necessary for human dignity.
in writing. ‒ we strongly support this resolution which, in addition to reaffirming our cherished concept of the right to water for all citizens, calls on the european commission to take very seriously the general concerns raised through the european citizens' initiative. it is clear that if the commission does not respond swiftly and with new measures to the requests raised by an eci, it will only discourage the use of this important instrument of active participation of citizens in european decision-making. in particular, we are firmly convinced that water should be understood as a right accessible to all and that it cannot be subject to the normal rules of the market or be compromised by the clauses of any international treaty. finally, we stress the importance of the eu refraining from any suggestion to member states to privatise the provision of such services and supporting the universal right to water and sanitation through its development policies.
in writing. ‒ while considering water and access to sanitation as a universal and inalienable human right, while recognising the importance of the will expressed by over 1.6 million people through the first successful european citizens' initiative, known as 'water is a right (right2water) ', i considered myself to vote against as my group's amendment was not approved.
in writing. ‒ the draft report calls for the recognition and enforcement of the right to water and sanitation; the permanent exclusion of water and sanitation from internal market rules and the full integration of universal access to water and sanitation in the development policies of the european union, for example through the promotion of public-public partnerships. i have decided, together with my colleagues from the italian delegation in the epp, to abstain from voting for or against this resolution, because i believe that the discussion on the possible provision of water services by private parties can and should be further developed.
in writing. ‒ the protection of the right to water is a very important issue and therefore needs to be addressed with extreme care. the balance between economic needs, to ensure investment and to provide an adequate service, and social needs must be carefully balanced. the ppe group tabled an alternative resolution and 16 amendments, seeking to improve a text which had many shortcomings and critical points and which, while well-intentioned, could lead to a deterioration in water services and an increase in their inefficiency. the alternative resolution did not, unfortunately, receive a majority, so i decided to abstain on the original version.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the report recognises that the commission's follow-up to the european citizens' initiative 'water is a right' is unsatisfactory, as it has limited itself to a communication that does not go beyond reiterating existing commitments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the boylan report. the report includes the amendment tabled by mr affronte, mr pedicini and mr evi together with the rapporteur, mrs boylan, which stresses that access to basic water needs must be a non-discussed fundamental human right implicitly and explicitly recognised by international law and calls on governments and local communities to work towards providing a minimum supply of water. the ep report responds to calls from the signatories for eu legislation to require governments to ensure that all citizens have access to sufficient drinking water and sanitation. the report also states that water (the supply and management of water resources) should not be subject to the 'logics of the single market' and that water services should be excluded from any form of liberalisation.
in writing. this is an important vote, both in form and content. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the content is also important, because for the first time in the european parliament water is referred to as a 'human right'. a right that is often violated, as the numbers speak for themselves: at least 748 million people worldwide today lack sustainable access to safe drinking water. a deficiency that is the cause of death and disease that could easily be eradicated. the management of water resources must remain a public right, since we cannot leave the management of such an important primary resource to the logic of the market, without forgetting, however, to ensure that water management is efficient, and that it cannot be wasted or disrupted. we will therefore continue to work to make the right to water a right for everyone, starting from a good basis such as this report, which i have already voted in favour of in the envi committee and which i will vote in favour of again today.
in writing. i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the follow-up to the european citizens' initiative 'water is a right' because it meets the demands of the almost 2 million signatories who wish: that eu legislation requires national governments to ensure and provide all citizens with sufficient drinking water and sanitation; the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of equal treatment to all types of transport, including transport by rail, road and inland waterway. the eu should step up its efforts to ensure universal access to safe drinking water and sanitation. i am critical of the european commission's lack of ambition in its response to the initiative, because i believe that it is our duty to respond positively to all the demands made by the 2 million signatories of the initiative. the special nature of water and sanitation makes it imperative to exclude water production, distribution and treatment from any trade agreement currently being negotiated.
the vote will be taken at the next voting time. all the remaining explanations of vote will be examined tomorrow after the votes. other explanations of vote may be submitted in writing.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs keller and the other shadow rapporteurs on their good work. it is a pity that this work has been de facto degraded, both in terms of content and in view of the fact that the council has already adopted its decision which completely overturns the position of the european parliament, and i refer to the mandatory relocation of migrants between member states. quotas and so on. it was then degraded from a procedural point of view because it was the emergency procedure - which we later saw was not the case, we cannot speak of emergency for a proposal that came in april, we are in september, and we are still discussing it - it is an emergency procedure which does not involve the european parliament, except with a consultation which is not binding, so much so that, i repeat, the council has already approved its decision. i would like to point out that the european parliament is the only institution that is democratically elected by the citizens, and that it is the de facto representative of the will of the european citizens. how many times have we heard ourselves ask: what is europe doing? where is europe? we should certainly be more timely, we should have a change in the dublin regulation - as we have been calling for a long time - a distribution of migrants among member states that is binding and obligatory for all, so that solidarity and cooperation are not only recognised in the charter and the treaties but are actually applied.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i think that in order to deal with this difficult situation in a pragmatic way, at least three basic criteria are needed. the first, which is always talked about, is to protect those who are fleeing from war; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the second is the returns. for those who are not refugees, for those who have no rights, because it is obvious that europe cannot take on board millions and millions of poor people, because it would obviously become chaos and from this point of view, of course, we should help the border countries to identify people and see who has rights and who does not and then we also have to solve the problems at the root, because we know that there are wars and europe has to use all its strength to be able to pacify situations of war, i think first of all of syria, but i also think of eritrea, where there is a war for 30 years that people are fleeing from. because you see, there is a human right - which is not often spoken of even here - which is the right to live and die where you were born and i think we should take that into account.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the treaties lie about who we are, we are not a beacon of civilization, we do not have a common asylum policy, we have not been in solidarity with greece, we are not in solidarity with migrants. i remember a figure here: 85% of refugees are in the poorest countries in the world. tomorrow we shall vote on the keller report, which proposes a modest fair distribution of refugees, and the council is already emptying it. yesterday statewatch wrote: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. i agree! i think that parliament will have to censure the commission if it does not go beyond relocations and does not organise legal escape routes and the end of dublin, but above all it must threaten to cut the operating funds of the council, the most guilty of incompetence, the most incapable of action. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the most serious aspect of this policy of indiscriminate reception is the proposal to institutionalize it contained in this report, the only result of which will be to make the ethnically homogeneous and culturally homogeneous europe selected by centuries of history disappear forever. instead of intelligently planning reception and shelter centres in the countries of origin, in north africa, far from europe, mrs merkel's policies are being implemented, which envisages the reception of just under a million refugees, immigrants, carefully selected people. this is the goodwill of mrs merkel - it is worthwhile whatever she wants to choose her immigrants - and of this policy and of these results, mrs merkel is the first responsible because she opens the doors of europe to millions of people, because it will be a message spread throughout europe. mrs merkel is responsible for creating racism again in germany... (the speaker is interrupted by the president)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the decision formalised by the council is a timid step forward, which marks a partial awakening of europe after the deafening silence of recent years. finally, a solidarity mechanism is in place to distribute refugees among the member states, but more could and should certainly be done. firstly, the 40 000 refugees to be resettled over the next two years, of which 32 000 have actually been identified so far, represent a drop in the ocean compared with the migratory flows recorded in recent months. that is why i hope that the commission's anticipation of 120 000 refugees to be allocated in an additional way, for example, will finally be put into practice and will be given greater weight in the council. all this cannot be based on mechanisms of voluntary accession by the member states, but must be based on a mandatory and coercive mechanism, which cannot be limited to temporary mechanisms but must instead be based - in my view - on a permanent system of relocation, changing the dublin 3 system once and for all. that is why i hope that today's meeting will be a piece of a mosaic in which europe can become the protagonist, no longer a silent and helpless spectator, in dealing with an absolute emergency, which is certainly the issue of immigration. the european union must be able to take action to help the refugees, to help those who are fleeing war and famine, and to be uncompromising towards economic migrants.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is the moment of truth for europe. whether or not europe can regain consistency with its founding values on the basis of the principle of solidarity. this value is written in our treaties, we learned it at great cost from the common history of europeans, which has seen us refugees and migrants by the millions. my story as a migrant from my home country to europe was changed precisely by meeting this story, with a hungarian refugee in italy, father becketch. that meeting changed my life, and without his unconditional acceptance, i probably wouldn't be here today. today's decision to adopt a first extraordinary mechanism for the redistribution of refugees is a first step, albeit a partial one, based on the principle of solidarity. now we move on. the principle of solidarity must become the structural basis of the future common migration policy of the european union, our europe, the lesson of solidarity with refugees for many european citizens. we are going beyond national egoisms and we are trying to build our own europe, thanks to the commission and also to the rapporteur.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i am aware that greece, which claims that it has not sufficiently protected and protected migrants, has been waiting all summer for the disbursement of funds that were to come from the commission, and commissioner avramopoulos said this summer that the funds had not yet been disbursed because there were still no hot spot or reception centres, etc. however, these centres can only be built if the funds arrive. in short, my question is directed both to mrs hohlmeier and to commissioner avramopoulos.
in writing. the extraordinary process which led to this hasty vote today is a clear example of the lack of democracy in europe and the continuing exploitation of the migration issue by the left. i am absolutely in favour of the principle of allocating migrants by quotas and i am in favour of their redistribution among the member states. this decision, however, deals with the immigration problem in a very superficial way: i am not going to go into the details of the situation, but i would like to say that the commission has not been able to take the initiative in this matter. the commission will also be able to provide information on the number of returnees to the member states and the number of returnees to the union. for all these reasons, i believe that once again europe is far from the reality and needs of its citizens and, what is worse, is ignorant of the social implications of its inefficiencies.
in writing. europe, following the council decision, has taken a step forward after years of silence on migration. but the step is not enough and more must and should have been done. the migration emergency must be dealt with with a permanent solution and not a temporary one because the current migration flow is probably the tip of the iceberg. finally, a solidarity-based allocation mechanism between member states is applied, but at the same time dublin iii must be urgently revised.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i have to say that we all recognise today how much culture and cultural heritage, cultural tourism, the cultural, creative and audiovisual industries are an asset in economic development and social cohesion, also for new quality employment. but you know - because you were in parliament - that it was parliament's merit to have included these aspects in the original proposal on cohesion which contained no reference to these issues. today i ask you to ensure that programmes at national and regional level contain these indications and push them forward for what is also a challenge - for example, the digitisation of cultural heritage rather than the cultural and creative industries. we have asked the committee to review the limit of eur 5 million adopted by the european commission for fixed investment projects in equipment and infrastructure for culture and tourism; many countries have disputed this and it would be good to leave more flexibility. another key issue is the objectives in education, lifelong learning and training, and where the structural funds can also do a lot for large infrastructures and also for the link between digitisation and education. i believe that this cooperation with the social fund and the structural funds is absolutely essential.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, two quick remarks on the reports. the first concerns the urban agenda, and while i appreciate the reference to such fundamental issues as a truly integrated approach to territorial development and the practical application of the partnership principle, i would have expected a more courageous report on a problem which has a transnational dimension. i am talking about the theme of regeneration of historic centres. in view of the projected increase in the number of people living in cities by 2050, it was necessary to encourage all those measures designed to prevent our urban centres from becoming empty, it was necessary to discourage the construction of new concrete monsters in peripheral areas, often poorly connected, which are turning into real ghettos, with very serious social, cultural and economic consequences, but it was decided not to do so! the sixth cohesion report: a short but bitter remark: we are in september 2015 and almost two years after the start of the new programming, there are still regions - i think of campania, calabria, southern italy - whose administrations have not yet been able to present a decent operational programme. it is therefore essential to ensure that the less developed regions have the capacity and the competence to plan ahead of time, or it will continue to happen that in order to avoid automatic disengagement and without taking into account the real needs of the territory, the billions of euros will be spent in the last six months and in a hurry.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to take this opportunity to avoid repeating a debate which is well known and which has a broad consensus among us thanks to the work done by the two rapporteurs in particular. i'd like to make three solicitation orders. the first is that we are already in a full and operational urban agenda in progress. commissioner crețu rightly reminded us that tens of billions have already been committed to urban policy through cohesion policy. it would be useful, for the sake of our discussion, if the commission could help us to understand how these resources have already been planned. towards social innovation, to technological innovation, to urban regeneration, to the enormous challenges that cities face, from environmental to demographic? understand where we are in the programming of resources already used. the second requirement is a requirement of merit, we cannot have any more commissioners working on urban policy. urban policy is closely linked to cohesion policy, and i would therefore also like to call for a joint initiative by members of parliament, so that there is the one-stop shop that the rapporteur has mentioned, so that cohesion policy is fully recognised as a central policy for urban policy as well. the third observation: it is the first debate we have on cohesion policy after a year in parliament, and yet we are committing some 640 billion euros - as has been said - which is too little! we must discuss cohesion policy more in this parliament, it is the commission's task, it is the task of the heads of group, it is the task of the regi committee, but we must discuss these issues more.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their very well-balanced and very interesting contributions, and i would like to speak in particular on the subject of cohesion. the totally inadequate response of the european union in the early years of the crisis has, as we know, led to a dizzying fall in investment in europe, and in this context the main source of investment that has helped to mitigate the austerity choices has been cohesion policy, which is still the main source of support for european recovery. we must find ways of improving the effectiveness of this policy, particularly with regard to the problem of certain countries and regions which have not absorbed the funds and have created difficulties, especially where these funds have not been used. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course, the increase in administrative capacity is also very important - i do not deny this at all! it is therefore urgent to ensure that cofinancing is dissociated from the calculation of the deficit in order to free up as many resources as possible, to feed the recovery in a healthy way through investment and not through the current account deficit and, at the same time, to allow cohesion policy funds to be spent on the territories. in addition, i would like to mention the dramatic issue of the 2014-2015 funds for those regions which, having had the programme approved only in 2015, have to use the funds for two years in one, with the risk that these resources will end up being unused.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we discuss cohesion policy, we take the sums of past programming and compare them with current programming, but often, as in the case of the crisis in greece, we put everything into question again, we correct the course. the objectives of cohesion investment are strategic, but it is important to understand the obstacles that often prevent them from being centralised. if there are regions which cannot spend the funds, if there are regions which have only had one programming cycle to grow, and others, like mine, which have been in the same identical situation as less developed regions for 25 years now, that is, since the birth of cohesion policy. when regional policy is being made, we must listen to the regions, and the regional authorities are asking for measures to overcome this, they are asking for help in what is for them the most difficult obstacle, cofinancing. the measures approved last week set a precedent for a concrete comparison and a clear distinction between current and investment expenditure, with the exclusion of cofinancing from the deficit calculation. this is a path that absolutely needs to be considered.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the reports show how essential it is in territorial development to overcome traditional administrative boundaries in the common search for solutions to economic, social, environmental and demographic challenges. it is clear to everyone, with the recent migrant crisis, that the geographical map and the geopolitical map have nothing in common anymore. on the other hand, it is well known how difficult it is to go beyond national borders and to take up voluntarily in europe the challenges arising from the territories of individual states. nevertheless, i am convinced that every effort must be made to give the european institutions a central role in those forms of spatial planning that are possible or in those cases where the solution can only come from a european approach. i am in favour of developing a model of contract and highly participatory urban planning in which, through a clear multi-level governance model, all stakeholders, down to the individual citizen, can be involved in solving today's major economic, social and environmental challenges. i therefore share the report and the call for greater synergies between the european programmes of national public and private investment, in order to make the programmes more relevant to the social and economic phenomena taking place.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that a large and valuable human capital raises a question of quality of life and well-being in relation to which public policies must reorient the priorities of their agenda. the european institutions must therefore make more effective choices in order to achieve the objectives. i therefore feel it is necessary to share the need to review active policies for employment and training in order to promote other areas of good employment and quality work, using and transferring skills and knowledge to the new generations, rethinking local development models, rebalancing attention to recovering lifestyles within a new socioeconomic vision of rural inland areas, to give senior citizens a leading role. the subject of well-being also needs other interpretations, policies for the regeneration of human capital must be promoted within the framework of the redevelopment of the places of life. so a new humanism for an even more modern idea of sustainable and inclusive development.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, fisheries agreements are a strange phenomenon, and yet parliament has very little say in them. basically, you can say yes or no. often they are taken for granted, almost all pass and are accompanied by recommendations which then remain only on paper. the impact of these measures is not insignificant and should raise a number of questions, and there are even scientific publications on the subject which are not at all comforting. for example, with regard to the agreement for guinea-bissau, which we shall be voting on tomorrow, there is talk of a lack of knowledge of the consequences of that agreement for the marine ecosystem and of the problems associated with the absence of up-to-date biological data. with the new common fisheries policy, sustainability is our primary objective, but we often forget that when we go fishing abroad in exchange for subsidies paid largely by european citizens and not by the fishing industry. we are behaving like predators. the european union must remain consistent with its principles: fisheries agreements must be fair, equitable and not endanger the resources of third countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too join my colleagues in supporting the adoption of the partnership agreements for sustainable fisheries, when they are indeed balanced acts between european countries and third countries and in line with the development cooperation policies pursued to date. the aim of these treaties is to allow european union vessels to fish in the waters of guinea-bissau, cape verde and madagascar, taking account not only of scientific data and assessments but also of international commitments on the protection of species at risk and the fight against illegal fishing. with this partnership, or rather with these partnerships, in a spirit of solidarity and of helping developing third countries, we intend to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the rest of the world in order to promote a rational use of fisheries resources, basing our negotiations on the principles of transparency, better governance and non-discrimination. the agreements concluded by the european union with third countries must respect the principles of the sustainability of the common fisheries policy and respect human rights as recognised at european and international level. we must therefore continue to monitor the situation, so that we can also review our choices in the event that these rights are not respected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that a great deal of work has been done on the white paper on transport, but we will not support it as a five star delegation because we do not share the continuing support that is being given to projects such as the turin-lyon link, despite the fact that it has been shown to be useless and harmful. however, there are many positive elements to which we have also contributed with our amendments, including the will to invest in solutions which are increasingly sustainable in terms of energy and the environment, favouring rail transport rather than road transport. the commission's proposal is to promote electric and cycling vehicles, car sharing, optimise public spending, create new urban mobility plans to encourage public transport, not least, and commit to safety and combat social dumping. nevertheless, i can only express my opposition to the text that has been adopted, once again, you want to give more powers to the european commission to finance, as a matter of priority, useless projects that are of interest only to the european oligarchy and the powerful. you continue to make the wrong choices, to avoid admitting your mistakes, as you do with the euro, you understand that it is not working, but you continue to insist on absurd policies to protect your eurozone. be like the alcoholics who, knowing they are going to die, continue to drink cognac even for breakfast.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the impression one gets from the white paper and from mr van de camp's report is that a very difficult mediation has been carried out. i think you will agree, commissioner, that we have been able to appreciate from your words the subtle work that often conflicts with the needs of delegations with very different needs. it is a pity that sometimes in this parliament something happens which i believe should not happen at all, namely that in a place like this where tensions can be resolved, there is a risk of some tension from one's own countries being brought back, and that is regrettable. however, in my view, the report has all the right attitudes to support it, it touches on the points that interest us, in my case a particular focus on rail transport, its progressive liberalisation, and it works on all those elements that allow us to understand how to invest in transport, without continually resorting to whims that europe does not deserve, such as excessive attention to issues on which we are already very good at - see the capacity to produce investments that respect environmental protection - the capacity of this report to promote that path towards useful investments for the mobility of goods and the mobility of people gives good reason to hope that, also through transport policy, our continent will have the development it deserves.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in europe 4 million selfemployed people create 11 million jobs, with a turnover of 1 billion ecu (speaking mr president) i said that in europe 4 million selfemployed people create 11 million jobs, with a turnover of over 500 billion euros. we must support this category of workers, we must solve the problems faced by the selfemployed in accessing finance and credit, by eliminating unnecessary administrative burdens and costs. it is necessary to ensure that selfemployed people can take advantage of the same opportunities available to small and mediumsized enterprises, such as access to direct calls from the european union and indirect calls from the regions. the role of professional funds in securing funding for members must also be assessed. a high-level group that i had set up in my role as european commissioner for industry, produced in 2014 a set of recommendations to support the development of the freelancers in europe, not only through better access to credit, but also with more training, with more information and focusing on internationalisation. the time has now come to implement these recommendations, and the purpose of the oral question which i have prepared with colleagues from various political groups is precisely to ask the new european commission how it intends to implement the commitments it has made. we expect a strong commitment from commissioner bieńkowska. i can assure you, commissioner, that you will have the support of a large majority of this parliament for legislative proposals, policy initiatives, programmes and funding for a category of people who are essential to economic recovery and employment in europe, a category of people who need to feel the european institutions are close to them. that is why we expect you to take a strong political initiative to ensure the development of the professions, which need more freedom and less democracy, less bureaucracy, sorry.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the need for greater integration of the world of professions, based on clear and shared rules, is also confirmed by the data on internal trade in services and the low mobility of european professionals. the study promoted by the commission clearly indicates many of the guidelines on which work needs to be done. among these, i believe that the priority is to focus on education and training to meet and win the challenge of international competition. it will also be important to reduce the regulatory burden and to update and complete a legal framework which must be effective and clear in order to provide certainty and opportunities for the we therefore welcome the commitments made by the commissioner this evening to accompany the further integration and orderly development of this important economic and social reality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the subject raised by this question is one of the most debated, if you will, but less regulated, as many colleagues have said, aspects of the structure of our economic development. the role of the professions has historically been well represented in the commission's statements and the main requirements have been correctly and precisely identified, as the question itself recalls: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, from simplification to internationalisation to access to finance. it is on this last point that i would like to point out to you that, on closer examination of what is happening within the union - including, for example, in my own country - the entrepreneurial nature of the form with which freelancers often associate themselves is not substantially recognized, it is formally recognized, but not quite substantially. in fact, it is all too often the case that these groups of selfemployed people have serious difficulties in accessing the forms of financing that the union makes available to generate development and innovation. so i ask you to pay particular attention to this detail.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that i am very much involved in this report as a part-time researcher, and therefore as someone who has experienced the subject under discussion firsthand. the crystal ceiling is a very hard reality in italian universities, harder than in other european realities. i would urge here not to remove certain elements that determine this crystal ceiling: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to take account of the fact that the directive is not only a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to asbestos, but also a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to asbestos. i believe that we must proceed simultaneously with the democratization of research and university activity but also with the restoration of the right to study and the right to research together with a welfare system.
the european council has already taken a decision on the basis of the conclusions of the european council meeting in brussels on the basis of the conclusions of the european council meeting in strasbourg on the basis of the conclusions of the european council meeting in strasbourg on the basis of the conclusions of the european council meeting in strasbourg on the basis of the conclusions of the european council meeting in strasbourg on the basis of the conclusions of the european council meeting in strasbourg on the basis of the conclusions of the european council meeting in strasbourg on the basis of the conclusions of the european council meeting in strasbourg on the basis of the conclusions of the european council meeting in strasbourg on the basis of the conclusions of the european council meeting in strasbourg on the basis of the conclusions of the european council meeting in strasbourg on the basis of the conclusions of the european council meeting in strasbourg on the basis of the conclusions of the european council meeting in strasbourg on the basis of the conclusions of the european council meeting in strasbourg on the basis of the conclusions of the european council meeting in strasbourg on the basis of the conclusions of the european council meeting in strasbourg on the basis of the conclusions of the european council meeting in strasbourg on the basis of the conclusions of the european council meeting in strasbourg on the basis of the conclusions of the european council meeting in strasbourg. president juncker is here, with pain in his heart, as president schulz has just mentioned. by his presence and his speech he gave a great proof of his love for the institutions. thank you and thank you for your beautiful speech. i too will speak frankly about immigration, as you said, europe must become europe again, rediscover itself as a project based on solidarity: refugees fleeing war must be welcomed. to those who say that europe does not exist as a community, as solidarity, i say: take to the streets and you will touch the solidarity of the citizens. we often talk about the distance between citizens and europe. europe can bridge that gap today if it learns from its people. we must not be timid about immigration, the commission is doing the right thing: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the passing of dublin; our group is with you in this battle. immigration is on everyone's radar, but there's another emergency: the social emergency. there is a silent secession taking place on this continent, dividing the rich and the poor. you, mr president, have often spoken of the triple a social dimension. we are asking you to make concrete commitments on this. i. the rules in force must be applied and checks on abuses must be strengthened. i would like to know. we must combat social dumping, which is why we want a comprehensive review of working resilience and also strong measures against the precariousness and monstrosity of zero-hour contracts; thirdly, we want a commitment to fiscal justice, as you have mentioned, taxes are paid where profits are made and this means having a common tax base, which is country by country reporting. fourthly, we must not forget what happened in greece. she doesn't forget. this economic and monetary union is not working, we support your idea of putting the five presidents' report into practice as soon as possible, but this must be only the beginning. we must not ignore the indications that have come through the pervenche berés report approved by this house, we also want to talk about fiscal capacity and there is the massive sovereign debt. it may be out of fashion, but it is time for us socialists and democrats to talk about eurobonds again. v. and we must continue to pursue the investment plan that will really support the european economy and society, an economy that must be rethought and made sustainable and circular. that is why we cannot miss the meeting with the paris conference. finally, as president schulz said in his opening speech, war is at the door of europe. syria, libya, part of ukraine, everywhere around the union there is war. compared to a year ago, the union has made important strides in foreign policy - thanks to federica mogherini - from an objective weakness to a recognized and esteemed presence, but the root causes of global imbalances must be tackled and here too europe must return to being europe, that is, investing in solidarity and cooperation between peoples, and betting again on africa with a long-term agenda. president, you know better than i do that we will not get a second chance, that if we do not act, the crisis will be irreversible, that european democracy will have to regain its greatness and its centrality in relation to the hegemony of the market and the excessive financialization of the unscrupulous economy. it is up to us to choose - i have concluded - whether we will be remembered as those who managed the decline or as the only ones who managed to reverse the course!
i would like to say that i cannot give the blue card because we are very late and i ask all the speakers to respect their time allocation because otherwise the votes would go really far and then we have a lot of debates in the afternoon. so, unlike in the past, i will be rather strict about speaking time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president juncker, you spoke today of the moment of frankness, i agree, and so i say to you that today i see a guilty empty chair, that of president tusk, and many dirty consciences. we should not talk about the state of the union but rather about the states of the union, for europe is the one in which its principles are measured by arguing over the figures for the proper reception, the money for a european mare nostrum and the legal channels for refugees. that europe is the one in which certain eastern countries forget the time when they had refugees, the one in which we pretend not to know the consequences of our trade policies, of the actions of our multinationals and do not have the courage to denounce them, let alone denounce those of american and chinese multinationals? the european union is not only a political group, but also a political group, and it is not only a political group, but it is also a political group. that europe is the one which gives the response to the economic crisis that sees the strong to the weak and the weak succumbing to the strong? i tell you, it is a hypocritical and cowardly europe! it is because instead of tackling the causes of the problems, many think of the union as a joint stock company with its own dividends to be collected, and instead it is a community of values, with shares of rights not only for migrants, not only mandatory, but of responsibility for all. perhaps you in some governments will try to be satisfied with what is easy, but know that the five star movement will not give you peace until you do what is right!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to reiterate once again our pride in having always and from the very beginning supported you, president juncker, as president of the commission. when we hear him speak, we really recognize each other in the values we share. we believe in the same europe that you believe in, and we really hope that your speech, which is so articulate, so complete, so humane, welcoming and supportive, informed by the values of christian europe, but also so complete, has not only been partially translated. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have always, through our head group like italy, like forza italia in the epp, pushed to have this complete picture, we recognize ourselves in all its proposals and we really hope that the message arrives complete, because from those countries they are watching us, as many newspapers say today: what we say must not create false illusions because instead of responding to the emergency in a rational and useful way, we would create further drama and tragedy. i thank you for your approach, i wish you a good job, we wish all of us a good job.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you said, mr president juncker, that this is not an ordinary or usual time for the union. we are at a historic juncture and we need strong european leadership, even collective leadership. leadership is not something that is acquired from some good school in europe or the usa. the leader is the one who takes on the responsibility that history assigns to him, and that is the history of europe today. we have not yet overcome the internal economic and social crisis, the inequalities, unemployment and at the same time europe is being hit from outside, in the east and the south, by the instability and conflicts which this stream of humanity in flight is the consequence of. we therefore ask you for strength and leadership to take a common european path, overcoming national logic and interests, overcoming the mediocrity that unfortunately some countries express, of selfishness, perhaps the same countries that the unity and the spirit of european solidarity have brought together in recent years. president, we will support your proposals with the priorities indicated by my president, mr pittella, but we ask that they be courageous, timely, adequate, concrete and urgent so that europe is no longer referred to as 'yes, it has acted, but too little and too late' as we have said a thousand times!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this morning's debate is of historical importance, and i would say that we cannot afford any form of hypocrisy here. i believe that the distinction between refugees and economic migrants is a fictitious one, we have a duty to save the lives of those who are fleeing from hunger and war, from the destabilization that we have very often helped to create. we must not discuss here an emergency even under the emotional impact of images of human lives, we must discuss here a structural change in the union's policies, a reform of the right of asylum, a new idea of european citizenship that is transferable, we must discuss how to tear down all the walls and how to make phrases such as 'help them at home' visibly ridiculous, when the homes of those people, very often, have been destroyed by us.
in writing. the words of the president of the commission today put the right emphasis on the delicate nature of the moment we are living through. it is quite striking to hear juncker say that 'there is no europe and there is no unity in this european union'. these weeks have lacked the values of solidarity without which the very idea of europe is lost and without which there is no sense of responsibility and the awareness that only united can we be able to deal with situations such as the migration flows, which are now structural. today the commission is adopting many of the ideas that characterised president renzi's speech at the opening of the italian presidency. finally, europe recognizes that it needs unity, solidarity and less bureaucracy. that we need bold, human choices. that we must focus on investment for growth, that we need a permanent allocation for immigration. that the european parliament's firm support is needed to overcome the difficulties caused by the resistance of some member states.
in writing. i fully agree with president juncker that we cannot discuss the state of the union today without addressing the migration crisis and the continuing influx of refugees within our borders. solving this situation must become the priority on which to focus all our energies. the european union must prove that it has reached the political maturity that it has lacked until now. it is not possible that, in the face of thousands of people dying at sea trying to escape the horrors of war, we still let our national egos prevail. there must be a common political will to help these men, women and children who have no fault other than that of living in territories bloodied by conflict and tormented by terrorism. the countries which today say no to acceptance or which build walls along their borders should remember that their people were also accepted in europe in the past. the allocation of the binding quotas proposed by the commission must be approved, but we must also get to the root of the problem: the european union must engage politically to resolve the conflict in syria, as well as in libya and other war-torn regions.
in writing. europe is missing and the union is missing, and this is seen in its tragic inability to offer asylum to those fleeing conflict, warned juncker in his first state of the union address, in a rather hypocritical 'silly' way. the truth is that europe is here. it has become a monster that no longer resembles the "european dream" of the founding fathers. unfortunately, what mr jucker could not say was that the union is long dead. it has died in the dogma of balanced budgets and the euro, in austerity policies, in wild liberalizations, in the guilty tolerance of the mercantilist policies and excessive surpluses of the northern countries, in the preying on the deficit countries, in tax havens and the evasion of multinationals, in casino finance, in the diktats of the troika, in the sale of public goods, in the explosion of unemployment and poverty, in growing inequalities, in the collapse of wages and mini-jobs, in technocracy and the overpowering of the financial lobbies, in deafness to the needs of its own citizens. that is why we do not want to see this anti-democratic europe, totally enslaved to the markets, the banks and the multinationals, strengthened any further. europe must first be rebuilt, putting people, rights, public goods, social and economic progress and future generations at the centre of all policies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his work and i would like to thank him for his work. i note a complete convergence between the positions expressed by the parliamentary group i chair and the proposals mentioned by commissioner avramopoulos a short while ago: the four points of the package. i have to say, sometimes i think the immigration fight is a little surreal: let's build walls on the sea. we do, we put the barbed wire and stop thousands of men, women, fleeing from war, but what are we discussing? these things are just for propaganda, does anyone really think that this is the way to solve the issue of refugees or immigration? but let's not kid around, this is just a tactic, propaganda to get votes. if we're serious, we have to do serious things. the proposal put forward by the european commission is a serious proposal, which deals with the subject of emergency, which establishes a permanent system, which is therefore ready to be activated when there are other crises. there will be more crises, i'm afraid. then there is the issue of economic migrants, which we must tackle seriously and rigorously, understanding the needs of society and the labour market in the various european countries. there is the problem of controls, which must be carried out in a serious manner, with common rules, with common timelines - not that one country takes 90 days, another country takes 3-6 months to ascertain the appropriateness of the asylum application. and then there is the whole subject of the initiatives to be taken on africa, which i have already touched upon, and which vice-president mogherini and vice-president timmermans have now returned to. and foreign policy: the stabilization of north africa is crucial, the action that is being taken in libya, all the talk about syria. they are nations that are not nations, they are states that are not states, from which one must flee, from which any of us would flee if we were in those conditions. we must have a comprehensive strategy, without demagoguery, with great realism, but with great seriousness. it is now a question of approving it. i am well aware of the commitment of the luxembourg minister, but i would like to see this commitment and this sensitivity reflected in the european council as a whole.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we continue to call it an emergency, but it is clear that it is no longer an emergency if it is something that has been going on for years and with which we will continue to live for years to come. i believe that we are facing an epochal exodus which is caused by the wicked policies of the western states, which are aimed precisely at exploitation, and which are the cause of wars in these countries, from which people are fleeing. we have taken a stand, we have put out slogans, we are still doing so today, and i think it is clear to all of us that we have no influence, either as the european parliament or as the commission, because unfortunately it is entirely in the hands of the member states. the european union is a member of the european union, which is a member of the european union, and it is a member of the european union, which is a member of the european union. it is really sad to see prime ministers, like the italian one, asking for humanity in front of the photo of the little syrian boy lying on the beach, when the day before he was rejoicing with the italian war industry that supplied weapons to syria until 2011.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard hypocritical and dangerous statements. europe seems to me to be ruled by dangerous hypocrites: first they make wars and then they're surprised that children run away from wars. lift the sanctions on syria, stop playing war with russia. we are talking about a business, 150 000 immigrants, a turnover of 5 million euros a day, some cooperatives, some associations, some fake vouchers, it is already getting its hands dirty! i do not want to see a moment of silence in this chamber in the months ahead because, among so many refugees and decent people, there are many criminals who are coming ashore and, according to the intelligence services in the middle of europe, also many potential terrorists. if we hold a moment's silence, your consciences will be drenched with blood. and then i read the last of the delirious demands: we need millions and millions of refugees to keep europeans' pensions, you're paid to think of the 25 million unemployed europeans before importing new slaves.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, good juncker, but it is important to amend the dublin treaty in the face of the humanitarian tragedy, both for italy and for all the other member states of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this parliament voted in april a resolution which already called for a mandatory quota mechanism to share responsibilities more effectively between member states. in 2014, 6 out of 28 member states alone handled 77% of asylum applications received across europe. is this the solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility referred to in articles 78 and 80 of the treaty? i don't think he did. the council's attitude on this point is shameful, and i believe that with these leaders europe, the european union, would never have been built. so my call is to support the obvious steps forward which parliament has been calling for since april; the commission's new proposals, which provide for larger numbers, require a mandatory and permanent quota mechanism to meet the responsibilities we have as europeans, and also to address the long-term reasons: regional instability and the question of inequality.
member of the commission.– mr president, let me start by expressing my thanks to all of the colleagues for their reactions and overall support for the approach followed by the commission. i really hope that our proposals can be adopted quickly as we now need fast decisions. i particularly look forward to parliament’s involvement in the upcoming discussions on the permanent relocation mechanism and the establishment of the european union list of safe countries, for which parliament will be co-legislator. we will put forth all the effort necessary to implement the decisions already taken and make sure that member states apply the common rules, and of course we will count on support from parliament in these endeavours. this migration will last; that is a fact. the package adopted by the commission today is only a step to better manage migration. we also have to work on integration of the refugees we welcome. this is essential for european cohesion. a successful integration policy is the most efficient tool against secondary movements. cooperation with third countries and opening legal avenues to europe is also essential. this goes hand-in-hand with the war we have declared on unscrupulous migrant smugglers. member states have agreed on an eu resettlement scheme. we have never before reached 22 504 places in the european union. we therefore have to build on this success and take even more initiatives in the future to open legal ways to come to europe. finally, protecting and defending our borders is crucial. we will launch a wider reflection to reinforce management of our borders and ambitious solutions. let me thank this house for the overall support. i took note of members’ remarks, of their comments and i gladly notice that we share the ambition to work together as we have done in the past but also in the future, to increase understanding and finally find common solutions. i really look forward to the continuation of our very good cooperation throughout these months.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking you for this very rich debate and i can assure you that the presidency will continue, as the commissioner has said, this dialogue and cooperation with your parliament, which is of great political value, especially at this difficult time. the presidency will spare no effort to move quickly. a lot of messages go in that direction. it will continue to work with all relevant actors on the basis of the commission's proposals. the next council meeting, which will take place in a few days' time, next monday, will have a great responsibility in this respect. i also hope that a number of messages which have been formulated and expressed here in this house will be taken into account at this meeting. we all agree that to succeed we must remain united and clear about our priorities and the means available to us to achieve our objectives. we must act with the greatest urgency and at the same time agree quickly on new instruments adapted to the new situation. we need a comprehensive approach to this crisis. i repeat what i said in my previous speech: we cannot procrastinate and we cannot delay. we have no right to let time pass. (applause) i would like to thank
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 10 september 2015, at 12.00 hours. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the tragic consequence of an endless tragedy, the massacres, the migrants trying to break down the walls and injuring themselves on the barbed wire, the clashes in hungary while we are discussing here. i am obliged to point out the differences between the various institutions whenever i speak in my country about the role of europe: the european parliament, which has long since sent a very strong message that has not been heard, the commission, which has proved us right over time and has finally launched a courageous agenda, and the council: the council has not yet decided, which postpones, which loses in sterile distinguished. we must act now, we repeat, and look beyond the insufficient quotas, change dublin and take note of a phenomenon which will certainly not be stopped because it is the result of a geopolitical change which we cannot stop but which we must absolutely govern.
in writing. the proposals put forward by the european commission to solve the refugee crisis are concrete and courageous measures. in recent months this parliament has already supported the need both for an emergency mechanism, with mandatory quotas of migrants to be taken in by the member states, and for a permanent mechanism which, through a reform of the dublin treaty and the creation of legal and safe channels for immigration, would put an end to the tragedies of the mediterranean. among other things, a broad interpretation of the family reunification system and for specific cases the promotion of private sponsorship mechanisms. while it is well known that, as a result of the demographic changes underway, the european economy needs migrants, well before economic motivations, it is humanity and our own history - europe has been a continent of refugees for centuries - that requires us to act consistently to prevent further loss of life and to implement common and lasting solutions to the refugee crisis. this is a request made by the european parliament and it comes directly from the citizens of europe. it is now up to the council and the member states to assume their responsibilities. we europeans no longer want to be ashamed of ourselves as human beings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to change the name of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council to the delegation for relations with palestine because i believe that after many years, the european parliament finally recognises the official link between the european union and the palestinian state. this vote is a logical continuation of our december 2014 resolution and also contributes to strengthening the legitimacy of a people to be able to dispose of itself as a nation officially recognized not only by the european union, but also and especially by many nations on the international scene.
in writing. ‒ the text under vote is not critical, so i supported it.
in writing. ‒ technical proposal with political significance. i did not support the unilateral declaration of a palestinian state without the support of israel and i abstained from voting today.
in writing. ‒ after the vote on the resolution on the recognition of the palestinian state on 10 december 2014, the logical consequence was to change the name of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council to the delegation for relations with palestine.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal to change the name of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council to the delegation for relations with palestine. i believe that this decision is not in line with the provisions and prerogatives of my group.
in writing. ‒ i have opposed this proposal because i believe that formal recognition should follow the facts and not anticipate them. the situation is not yet ready for such a change, but i think it is good that we are still talking about it because a solution must be found and quickly.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution because it calls for the timely resumption of credible peace efforts in the middle east peace process, which unfortunately remains stalled; calls on israelis and palestinians to avoid actions that could trigger further escalation, including hate speech and incitement to hatred in public life, as well as unilateral measures that could undermine the outcome of the negotiations and threaten the viability of the two-state solution; a lasting solution to the conflict can only be achieved in a regional context with the involvement of all relevant regional actors and the support of the international community; reaffirms its firm support for the two-state solution based on the 1967 borders, which provides for the exchange of mutually agreed territories and jerusalem as the capital of both states and the coexistence, in the spirit of peace, security and mutual recognition, of a secure state of israel and an independent, democratic, contiguous and self-governing state of palestine, on the basis of the right to self-determination and in full respect of international law; finally, it stresses that non-violent measures and respect for human rights are the only way to achieve a just and lasting peace.
in writing. – the vote against this modification is justified by the fact that though the practical result is merely technical, it has political implications that we do not support. these implications are, in our view, negative for the europe union and its support implies responsibilities that the union cannot afford at this stage. the juridical recognition of a state should be the accomplishment of a de facto situation that does not exist at the moment. this modification may hurt the negotiations within the middle east peace process that many of our politicians stand for. the misuse of political narratives may have consequences that can hurt the role of the union within its neighbourhood.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for the work he has done and i express my disapproval.
in writing. ‒ it is not by changing the name of a european parliament delegation that we will contribute to the creation of two states able to live side by side in peace, which is one of the main objectives of the international community and of europe. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i do not share the position taken in the ferreira report on the fisheries partnership agreement with guinea-bissau, the same rapporteur admits that there will be very little progress in terms of the objectives of cooperation with the republic of guinea-bissau in this area, which is why i am opposed to allocating eur 10 million to this country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that this partnership agreement with guinea-bissau can bring many benefits to both sides, allowing for a harmonious and sustainable development of the whole region.
in writing. ‒ the agreement would cost eu coffers almost €10 million, €3 million of which would go directly to developing their local fisheries. i voted against this because access to fish stocks is not of any significance to our operators and because the results, as the rapporteur has also admitted, are very poor in terms of the objectives of cooperation with that country.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of guinea-bissau. the conclusion of the protocol is of vital importance in order to promote the effective and sustainable development of guinea-bissau's fisheries sector and related industries and activities. even after the suspension of the negotiations with mauritania, the fisheries agreement between the european union and guinea-bissau is perhaps one of the most important agreements currently in force, as it allows access to mixed fisheries, which is why i decided to vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ due to the problems of transparency, illegal fishing and monitoring by the bodies responsible for monitoring the application of the agreement, i voted against this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the fisheries partnership agreement with guinea-bissau. this agreement is of considerable importance both for guinea-bissau and for the european fleets. however, the results achieved so far in the field of sectoral cooperation are insufficient. the report therefore calls on the commission to take the necessary measures to establish mechanisms to ensure greater transparency and participation of beneficiary parties, to revise, if necessary, the part of the agreement concerning sectoral support and to improve the quantity and quality of catch information.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i share its fundamental objective, namely the need to provide for the creation of fishing guarantees for european vessels in guinea-bissau's waters. it is in the interest of both parties to develop a sustainable policy in this field, and it is essential to rely on third countries to provide them with aid and technology while we can obtain foodstuffs from resources that are not adequately exploited there. it provides us with food, it improves the biodiversity of our seas, it benefits the people and the fishermen of guinea-bissau.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because, as the rapporteur himself admits, very little progress has been made in the objectives of cooperation with the country in question.
in writing. i have decided to give a favourable opinion on this proposal for a fisheries partnership agreement with guinea-bissau. the first fisheries agreement between the eec and guinea-bissau was concluded in 1980. in 2014, a new protocol implementing the fisheries agreement was signed, with a financial contribution of eur 9,2 million per year.
in writing. ‒ this partnership agreement concerns a country whose economy is based on the exclusive cultivation of cashew, which makes it difficult to differentiate. on the one hand, there are various potentials. it is also true that the economic situation is in serious crisis and that developments since the agreement have been particularly poor. the political situation also remains unstable, although positive developments were recorded in may 2014 with the presidential elections. this agreement could help to reduce guinea-bissau's dependence on cashew production and international aid, and also strengthen the country's position. these are some of the reasons why i am in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report signed by mr ferreira, because i believe that the results achieved in the field of sectoral cooperation between the eu and the republic of guinea-bissau have not led to positive results in practice, despite the presence of a fisheries agreement signed 35 years ago. the new agreement will have to promote the effective and sustainable development of guinea-bissau's fisheries sector and all related economic activities.
in writing. ‒ having understood the importance of the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of guinea-bissau, which is in fact one of the few agreements allowing access to mixed fisheries, i paid particular attention to the problems related to the difficulty of the republic of guinea-bissau to adapt to the eu health standards. i share the rapporteur's proposals to improve this partnership. for these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i agree with mr ferreira's proposal for the fisheries partnership agreement with guinea-bissau, which calls on parliament to approve the conclusion of the protocol signed on 24 november 2014 between the member states and guinea-bissau.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because the agreement would have a cost to the union's coffers that was completely out of proportion to the limited benefits that could be achieved.
in writing. ‒ i do not share the views expressed in the ferreira report on the fisheries partnership agreement with guinea-bissau. i believe that the lack of respect for the eu's demands for sustainable fishing and greater efforts to combat illegal fishing, as well as the lack of compliance with the health and hygiene rules in fisheries, are sufficient reasons for not supporting this text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the report fully rejects the eu's demands on sustainable fishing, employment of local people on board eu vessels and the fight against illegal fishing. i am noting that it is admitted, among other things, that guinea-bissau has not observed the hygiene and health rules for fisheries, in line with the opinion on the agreement itself, and i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it enabled the european parliament to highlight the critical issues and problems related to transparency, illegal fishing and monitoring by the bodies responsible for monitoring the application of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the fisheries partnership agreement with guinea-bissau. the first agreement between the eu and guinea-bissau was signed in 1980 and allowed european fleets to access guinea-bissau's waters for their fishing activities. a new protocol was concluded in 2012, but was not implemented due to a coup d'état in guinea-bissau. in november 2014, after elections were held in the country, it was possible to sign a new protocol on the implementation of the eu-guinea-bissau fisheries agreement valid for three years. the financial contribution provided for is eur 9,2 million, of which eur 3 million is for support for the development of guinea-bissau's fisheries sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is very important, as my party's line underlines, to manage the development and growth of relations and partnerships with third countries to the european union in the best possible way, especially as regards internal food sustainability. i share the rapporteur's view that it is necessary to review the old agreements which date back years and are in danger of becoming obsolete. we agree that the commission must take all the necessary steps to support the sector but also to ensure that certain natural balances are maintained which will ensure that fish stocks are always high: the fisheries sector must not affect the important balance of the ecosystem.
in writing. ‒ i am totally in favour of the protocol in question as the eu-guinea-bissau fisheries agreement can be considered one of the most important fisheries agreements currently in force and one of the few eu fisheries agreements that allows access to mixed fisheries. in addition to being yet another example of the triumph of the transcontinental diplomatic dialogue promoted by the european union, this agreement also serves the interests of the contracting parties: the commission has also proposed that the european union should contribute to the development of the fisheries market and to the recovery of the state coffers of guinea-bissau, one of the countries with the lowest gdp per capita in the world. however, i also agree that a more detailed assessment and consideration of the agreement is necessary by adopting a non-legislative resolution containing considerations and recommendations which the european commission will have to take into account during the period of validity of this protocol and in any future negotiation of the same. i also share the rapporteur's view that the quantity and reliability of information on catches and, in general, on the conservation status of fishery resources must be improved, and that guinea-bissau must be encouraged to develop its own capacity to obtain such information.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against because, as the rapporteur himself admits, very little progress has been made in the objectives of cooperation with the country in question.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal. the general objective of the protocol is to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the republic of guinea-bissau in the fisheries sector in the interest of both parties by establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy. it considers that this agreement is of considerable importance both for guinea-bissau and for the european fleets operating in guinea-bissau's waters and recalls that this agreement should promote a more effective and sustainable development of guinea-bissau's fisheries sector and related industries and activities.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on the fisheries partnership agreement with guinea-bissau: fishing opportunities and financial compensation. the idea is to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the republic of guinea-bissau in the fisheries sector, to the benefit of both parties, by achieving an appropriate sharing of surplus resources. strengthening the profile of sectoral cooperation is a priority, despite the progress already made in the area of monitoring, control and surveillance of fisheries activities. illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing remains a longstanding problem to work on, as do sanitary standards.
in writing. ‒ having understood the importance of the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of guinea-bissau, and fully agreeing with the suggestions put forward by the rapporteur, mr nirj deva, and especially with regard to the defence of the principles of transparency and equal treatment of access for foreign vessels to the maritime zones under the jurisdiction of the republic of guinea-bissau, i have decided to cast my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i believe that the agreement in question is disadvantageous for the european union.
in writing. ‒ some passages in this report have proved unclear, which is why i have opted for an abstention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that this partnership agreement with cape verde can bring many benefits to both sides, allowing for a harmonious and sustainable development of the whole region.
in writing. ‒ while there has been an improvement in the general conditions of fishing and the sustainability of fishing activity compared with 1990, although no detailed analysis has been carried out, the financial impact (eur 3.3 million) and the related benefit for european fleets is small. i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of cape verde. the proposal gives european union vessels the opportunity to fish in the cape verdean zone, within the limits of the available surplus. the aim is to strengthen cooperation with this country to enable the development of a sustainable and responsible fisheries policy, by promoting an in-depth dialogue on the programming and implementation of sectoral policy and also by establishing a rigorous monitoring system. the protocol also provides for improved management and conservation of fishery resources through financial aid to the partner country to encourage it to implement national programmes to combat illegal fishing, as well as the creation of projects for the benefit of local fishermen, relating to safety and general training.
in writing. ‒ the new protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde on fisheries was adopted in line with the sustainability measures of the new common fisheries policy (cfp), both from an environmental and economic point of view. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure under consideration concerning the fisheries partnership agreement with cape verde, an island state in the eastern atlantic, some 400 miles off the african coast. since 2008, cape verde is no longer classified as a least developed country, but can still export to the eu under the gsp plus scheme of generalised tariff preferences. the main objective of the memorandum of understanding is to provide european union vessels with fishing opportunities in the cape verdean fishing zone in accordance with the best available scientific advice and the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) and, where relevant, within the limits of the available surplus. the total value of the protocol is estimated at eur 3 million.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of fishing opportunities and financial compensation as the new protocol provides a framework for the fishing activities of the european fleet and in particular allows boat owners to obtain the necessary authorisations in cape verde. i am convinced that an important objective of the european union is to contribute to improving the management of fisheries resources through financial support. in addition to the resolution, i also welcomed one of the objectives of the new protocol, namely cooperation between the european union and cape verde which will promote the development of a sustainable fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ small or almost insignificant improvements in the reports make me opt for an abstention in the vote.
in writing. i agree with that. the main objective of the memorandum of understanding is to provide european union vessels with fishing opportunities in the cape verdean fishing zone, in accordance with the best available scientific advice and the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas. the general objective is to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the republic of cape verde with a view to establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the cape verdean fishing zone, in the interests of both parties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation on the fisheries partnership agreement with cape verde: fishing opportunities and compensation. the main objective of this protocol is to offer eu vessels the possibility to fish in the cape verdean zone, subject to certain scientific advice, and, above all, the main objective is to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the republic of cape verde in order to develop a sustainable fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ i have taken into account the importance of the conclusion of a protocol between the eu and the republic of cape verde on fisheries, the main objective of which is to strengthen cooperation between the two for the development of sustainable and responsible fisheries. in particular, i believe it is essential to supplement the protocol with a legal set of rules aimed at a better understanding of both sides. for these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of this proposal because it enshrines the fisheries agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde. the agreement will allow vessels from the member states to fish in cape verdean waters. the agreement is in line with the new sustainability measures of the new common fisheries policy (cfp).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the protocol to renew the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of cape verde. the agreement provides for the eu to provide some eur 2 million over four years. the protocol will allow 71 eu vessels from france, spain and portugal to fish in cape verdean waters. i have decided to give my consent to this agreement because i believe that the financial support to be given to cape verde can help this country to combat illegal fishing and to ensure the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources. the agreement also provided for the strengthening of cooperation between the european union and the republic of cape verde with a view to establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy in the interests of both parties.
in writing. ‒ although this report is in part acceptable, i find some of the passages unclear and contradictory, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that this partnership agreement with cape verde can bring many benefits to both sides, allowing for a harmonious and sustainable development of the whole region.
in writing. ‒ while there has been an improvement in the general conditions of fishing and the sustainability of fishing activity compared with 1990, although no detailed analysis has been carried out, the financial impact (eur 3.3 million) and the related benefit for european fleets is small. i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the new protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde on fisheries was adopted in accordance with the sustainability measures of the new common fisheries policy (cfp), both from an environmental and economic point of view.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure under consideration concerning the fisheries partnership agreement with cape verde, an island state in the eastern atlantic, some 400 miles off the african coast. since 2008, cape verde is no longer classified as a least developed country but can still export to the eu under the gsp plus scheme of generalised tariff preferences. the main objective of the memorandum of understanding is to provide european union vessels with fishing opportunities in the cape verdean fishing zone in accordance with the best available scientific advice and the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) and, where relevant, within the limits of the available surplus. the total value of the protocol is estimated at eur 3 million. this report welcomes the eu-cape verde protocol, adopted in accordance with the sustainability measures of the new common fisheries policy, both from an environmental and economic point of view.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because i agree with the rapporteur's recommendations, especially on the new aspects of the agreement and protocol which appear promising. i am convinced that the new monitoring system for shark catch thresholds, together with the reference to reducing the number of fishing vessels, together with the study on sharks which will be carried out by the eu together with the scientific institutes of cape verde are objectives worth pursuing. i also appreciated that there does not appear to be a risk of overexploitation for the species most sought after by vessels and this is rightly within the eu's objectives.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of a partnership framework is an important instrument of cooperation between the european union and the republic of cape verde which will improve the management and conservation of cape verdean fisheries resources through financial support programmes and monitoring mechanisms for the protection of marine species. the aim of the agreement is to promote and develop a sustainable fisheries policy through the implementation of national initiatives to combat illegal fishing and the financing of local projects aimed at training fishermen in the safety and respect of tuna stocks. i agree with the positive assessment of the agreement by the committee responsible for fisheries and i am in favour of the establishment of a monitoring mechanism by scientific institutes and the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icatt). i therefore voted in favour of the draft decision, an agreement which safeguards both mutual financial interests and the protection of the environment and natural resources.
in writing. ‒ small or almost insignificant improvements in the reports make me opt for an abstention in the vote.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this proposal. the report welcomes this new protocol between the eu and the republic of cape verde on fisheries, adopted in accordance with the measures for the environmental and economic sustainability of the new common fisheries policy. the general objective of the protocol is to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the republic of cape verde, thereby creating a framework for partnership.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the fisheries partnership agreement with the republic of cape verde. the fishing opportunities and financial compensation are a major theme in this area: the capture of sharks. this is a particularly sensitive issue to be tackled, despite a new monitoring mechanism, which is considered a step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i firmly believe that promoting forms of economic cooperation between the countries of the european union and other states can be of great economic benefit to both sides. the objective of the protocol is to give community fleets the opportunity to fish in the republic of cape verde. it also aims to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the latter.
in writing. ‒ i have recognised the importance of the fisheries partnership between the eu and the republic of cape verde and the need to conclude a protocol on it. i thank the rapporteur for his work and confirm my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ although technically a good agreement, the uncertain coverage of controls on the activities of eu fleets, together with a complete absence of an assessment of the real economic benefits of an investment of over eur 6 million over 4 years in madagascar, led me to opt for an abstention vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that this partnership agreement with madagascar can bring many benefits to both sides, allowing for a harmonious and sustainable development of the whole region.
in writing. ‒ in return for the use of this fishing zone, the european union will finance the malagasy fisheries sector to the tune of eur 700 000 per year, with an additional general counterpart of around eur 866 250 in the first two years and eur 787 500 in the last two years of the agreement. in total, the agreement provides for a contribution of eur 6 107 500 from the european union to the republic of madagascar over the four years of the validity of this partnership agreement. although technically a good agreement, it is worth noting the poor coverage of controls on the activities of eu fleets and the complete absence of an assessment of the real economic benefits of sector-specific investment (an element unfortunately absent from almost all extra-eu fisheries agreements). i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the republic of madagascar and the european community. this agreement, which allows fishing for about 100 vessels, was reached after numerous working meetings between the partners concerned, which required a lot of information from the various analytical documents requested by the european union. the text not only specifies the target species, the expected quantities of fish, the amounts to be invested and the general profits that can be obtained from the different operations, but it also makes explicit reference to the observation programme that will accompany the activities, listing the vulnerable and protected species and defining the guidelines on the basis of detailed scientific control, including the possibility of carrying out experimental fishing activities.
in writing. ‒ the general objective of the memorandum of understanding is to strengthen cooperation between the european union and madagascar with a view to establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in madagascar's fishing zone, in the interests of both parties. i have no objections and no particular problems, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the conclusion of a fisheries partnership agreement with madagascar. the agreement provides for fishing opportunities for 94 vessels and the capture of 15 750 tonnes of fish in the waters of madagascar's exclusive economic zone. in return for the use of this fishing zone, the eu will finance the malagasy fisheries sector to the tune of eur 700 000 per year, with an additional overall counterpart of around eur 866 250 in the first two years and eur 787 500 in the last two years of the agreement. in total, the agreement provides for a contribution of eur 6 107 500 from the european union to the republic of madagascar over the four years of the validity of this partnership agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i think it is a good agreement for fisheries, including the target species, the expected quantities of fish, the amounts to be invested and the expected overall profits. the key element of the agreement is the monitoring programme to accompany the activity, which lists vulnerable and protected species and sets out general guidelines to encourage detailed scientific monitoring. finally, i believe that methods and technologies should be defined to protect vulnerable species, in particular sea turtles, whales and seabirds. madagascar is an island country and its economy is based mainly on agriculture, livestock and fishing, where fish resources are used for local consumption. the main objective of the union is to increase the autonomy of partner countries in the fisheries sector and to contribute to the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, and i agree with that.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the renewal of the partnership agreement is an opportunity to strengthen trade cooperation between the european union and the republic of madagascar. the reaffirmation of a fisheries partnership also provides for the establishment of management and monitoring bodies which are the necessary instruments to combat illegal fishing and ensure compliance with the measures adopted by the relevant indian ocean tuna commission (iotc). i voted in favour of the agreement because i believe in the importance of responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in order to promote economic growth in the sector, ensuring the sustainability and transparency of fishing activities. the correct and controlled management of the supply chain would help to ensure that the european market is supplied with food products of certified quality. these good governance requirements are consistent with the european objectives in the field of development cooperation and the common fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ the partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of madagascar includes the possibility for 94 fishing vessels to fish in the waters of the exclusive economic zone of the republic of madagascar, in exchange for a contribution of eur 6 107 500 from the european union. from a formal point of view, i think this is a good fisheries partnership agreement. the agreement sets out in detail the target species and the expected fish values, the amounts to be invested and the expected overall profits, the observation programme to be used for the activity, the vulnerable and protected species and the general guidelines to encourage scientific monitoring.
in writing. i gave a favourable opinion on this proposal, which provides for a counterpart of eur 6 107 500 from the european union to the republic of madagascar during the four years of validity of the fisheries partnership agreement. the agreement is in addition to the package of other fisheries agreements approved today, in line with the environmental and economic sustainability measures of the new common fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the recommendation on the fisheries partnership agreement with madagascar: fishing opportunities and financial compensation. the agreement provides for the possibility for european union vessels to catch a quantity of fish of 15 750 tonnes against an economic contribution paid to the country for a period of four years, the duration of the agreement. i therefore believe that an effort is needed to monitor and assess the benefits of sector-specific investment.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report signed by mr santos, because i believe that a strengthened cooperation policy between the european union and the republic of madagascar is absolutely desirable. the possibility for community countries to benefit from the fishing zone of the republic of madagascar, as well as the financing provided in return, will only bring benefits to both parties.
in writing. ‒because i consider the fisheries partnership between the eu and the republic of madagascar to be important for the benefits of both parties, and consider it equally necessary to improve the rules of the partnership on the protection of protected marine species (sea turtles, cetaceans, seabirds), i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the fisheries partnership agreement with madagascar, which provides for fishing opportunities for 94 vessels and a catch of 15 750 tonnes of fish for four years. the agreement provides for a counterpart of eur 6 107 500 from the european union to the republic of madagascar, to be deferred over four years.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because the agreement appears broadly acceptable, but is marred by the lack of a careful and objective assessment of the real economic benefits of the sector-specific investment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of madagascar because i believe it is a great opportunity for cooperation and development and an instrument to strengthen bilateral relations between the eu and madagascar. the agreement will run for four years and has a budget of eur 6 602 million. the overall objective is to strengthen cooperation between the european union and madagascar with a view to establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in madagascar's fishing zone, in the interests of both parties.
in writing. ‒ the world trade organisation remains an organisation that is extremely distant from the needs of our production system, very little has been done to protect our geographical indications and trademarks of origin of products, the amendments made by this text have not brought any improvements to the protection of our territories, which is why i did not support this text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement contains some fundamental provisions which will make it possible to facilitate the cross-border movement of goods and to make trade flows more fluid and predictable.
in writing. ‒ the last wto ministerial conference, held in december 2013, made some changes to the agreement underpinning this international body. it goes without saying that some of the amendments are useful, but my political position - which is clearly critical of the wto - does not allow me to vote in favour of them. not only that: the treaty of lisbon has considerably reduced the prerogatives of member states in the wto and nothing has been improved in this respect by the protocol under vote today. the wto, even with these changes, remains an organization extremely distant from the needs of our production system. there is no proposal or almost no proposal in the wto to protect our geographical indications and trademarks of origin. although these changes (less red tape, and simplification of procedures) are substantially useful, my vote remains negative. the multilateral negotiating cycle concluded at the end of 2013 could and should have brought more significant results.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation. the main aim of the agreement is to simplify and modernise customs procedures and regulations, both to facilitate the movement of goods across frontiers and to make trade flows more fluid and predictable, and to bring about greater transparency and closer cooperation between customs authorities. once it comes into force, we will have increased trade flows, more revenue from customs duties, a higher volume of trade and an increasingly efficient customs administration. the elimination of administrative barriers, in addition to making trade easier, faster and cheaper, should also help developing countries and their businesses to obtain greater benefits from international trade, and that is why i decided to vote in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ the recommendation aims to give a favourable opinion to a council decision on the amendment of the marrakesh agreement which created the world trade organisation in 1994. this protocol, which amends the agreement, includes references to the trade facilitation agreement, concluded in 2013. it contains some 40 measures to facilitate the movement of goods, covering such topics as regulations, rules, procedures, electronic payments, customs formalities, documentation, transparency and cooperation between customs authorities. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation. the trade facilitation agreement (tfa) is the first multilateral agreement concluded by the wto since its inception and its main purpose is to simplify and accelerate the movement and clearance of goods worldwide. in this report, the european parliament recognises the benefits that the implementation of the agreement will bring to developing countries by contributing to a more welcoming environment for business, in particular smes; urges all wto members to seek a solution without further delay for the implementation of the bali package in all its aspects, including the reduction of trade distortions represented by agricultural subsidies; fully supports the european union's initiative to allocate eur 400 million of funding over five years to trade facilitation reforms and projects such as the improvement of customs systems in developing and least developed countries, and finally calls for regular information on the financing arrangements to be provided to the european parliament and the eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this protocol amending the marrakesh agreement, which established the world trade organisation. i believe that the objective of simplifying and speeding up the movement and clearance of goods around the world must be pursued to the end, and that cooperation between customs authorities must be developed and extended so that the reduction in bureaucratic constraints does not translate into less security because of looser controls. i am convinced that customs cooperation, once implemented, can bring considerable benefits to traders worldwide and also an acceleration to the global economy, as costs will decrease while international trade grows. finally, as trade facilitation will be particularly important for developing countries, markets themselves will become more efficient.
in writing. ‒ i am fully in favour of concluding the trade facilitation agreement (tfa), as it will bring significant benefits to operators worldwide and promote global economic growth. in particular, it will help to reduce costs and increase trade for both the import and export markets, encouraging commercial investment worldwide. i support the way in which the problems of the implementation of the protocol in the least developed countries are to be dealt with, in particular the adoption of special and differentiated treatment and technical and financial assistance, which is a concrete support to bridge the gap between the different capacities of wto members to implement the provisions. i believe, however, that it is essential that capacity building funding be based on a sound assessment of the real needs of each country, ensuring that the assistance available is directed to the nations that really need it. as a consequence, implementation of the agreement, in particular by developing countries, will lead to harmonisation and simplification of trade-related procedures, fostering opportunities for the widespread use of innovative technologies and electronic payment systems.
in writing. ‒ by adopting the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation (wto), the european union confirms its strong commitment to advancing the multilateral agenda. this is an important signal that the european union will be sending to nairobi next december, where the 10th wto ministerial conference will be held. the ratification of the trade facilitation agreement by the 160 wto members will effectively close at least one chapter of the bali package in the broader framework of the doha development agenda, which has been in a stalemate for too long. it is in bodies such as the wto that we must reaffirm our willingness and ability to converge on common global rules in order to achieve a more fair, free and open trade for all. for these reasons i voted in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a european parliament non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation highlights the main changes and challenges in world trade. in this context, it is important to stress that the agreement represents a great opportunity for all member states in terms of promoting research and development and the dissemination of innovative technologies also in developing countries. the agreement is also part of a wider strategy promoted by the union to stimulate trade policies through financing to improve the customs systems of developing and least developed countries. in this context, programmes for greater regional economic integration have become a crucial element in promoting trade between the union and its main partners in north africa and eastern europe. another positive aspect is the expected benefits for small and mediumsized enterprises from this agreement. i therefore vote in favour of this text, in order to promote agreements for a balanced promotion of trade with the other trading partners of the union.
in writing. - i vote against the protocol. the wto, even with these changes, remains an organisation that is extremely distant from the needs of our production system and has always been distant from our idea of standards for local and quality products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report with a non-legislative motion for a resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation. the european union has always worked to manage its trade policies in a consistent manner and to make trade free, fair and open. i therefore believe that the world trade organization is the most fertile ground for promoting this approach. i am convinced that the implementation of the agreement, especially in cooperation with developing countries, will have very positive consequences for world trade because it will lead to greater harmonization and simplification of procedures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation. the agreement provides for the simplification of customs procedures to facilitate the cross-border movement of goods. trade must be cheaper and easier to obtain greater benefits from international trade.
in writing. ‒ we support this draft resolution so that the eu can ratify the trade facilitation agreement (tfa) concluded at the 9th ministerial conference of the world trade organisation (wto) in december 2013 as soon as possible. in supporting the resolution, we hope that the eu's ratification will be an incentive for other wto members to ratify the agreement as soon as possible. the agreement on the tfa must be ratified by at least two thirds of the wto member states before it can enter into force.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of amending the marrakesh agreement which would allow easier access to the export market for companies from developing and least-developed countries. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in december 2013, a difficult multilateral agreement on trade facilitation was reached at the wto ministerial conference in bali, with significant bureaucratic simplifications at borders, which would have resulted in economic savings for all acceding countries, and in particular for developing countries. for various reasons, mainly due to the resistance of india, which has reverted to the content of the agreement, this could not be achieved during 2014 and the procedure should therefore be concluded in the autumn, before the wto ministerial meeting at the end of the year, when two thirds of the member countries should have ratified the agreement. the european union is therefore formalizing an agreement which it considers to be a source of important economic contributions for all partners. i voted in favour of this assent so that the commission can proceed with the action resulting from the negotiating mandate granted.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation which will guarantee trade for wto members. in addition, the european union will provide eur 400 million to the least developed countries to help them comply with customs rules and obligations, as set out in the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i consider the wto to be an organisation that is extremely distant from the needs of the italian and european production systems.
in writing. ‒ in my view, the world trade organisation should be a neutral instrument that can provide opportunities and legal protection for our legitimate trade interests as well. the zalba bidegain report, on the other hand, seems to confuse development policies with international trade and to focus excessively on the needs of developing countries, leaving our territories and our production system in the grip of the crisis, all of which simply risks increasing the processes of relocation of production from the eu to asia, which is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement contains some fundamental provisions which will make it possible to facilitate the cross-border movement of goods and to make trade flows more fluid and predictable.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the own-initiative report of the committee on international trade on the amendments to the basic agreement in the wto can only be negative. the text focuses too much on the needs of developing countries, whereas in our view the wto should be a neutral instrument capable of providing opportunities and legal protection for our legitimate trade interests as well. it is a serious mistake to confuse development policy with international trade, since it simply risks further increasing the process of relocating production processes from europe to asia. the report welcomes reforms in the wto, which i do not think are very important. the amendments tabled by certain left-wing groups seem to take account almost exclusively of the interests of developing countries and only occasionally make an interesting contribution to the text.
in writing. ‒ i expressed concern that, although the text is balanced and speaks of a formal ratification of an international agreement, there were no strong references in the report by mr pablo zalba bidegain to customs problems, tax controls and the fight against corruption. i therefore abstained on the final text of the resolution accompanying the ratification of the marrakesh agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation. the trade facilitation agreement (tfa), concluded by the 159 wto members (including the eu and member states) at the 9th ministerial conference in december 2013, is the first multilateral agreement concluded by the wto since its establishment 20 years ago. the aim of the agreement is to simplify and speed up the movement and clearance of goods worldwide and requires greater cooperation between customs authorities. the text of the agreement includes rules on issues such as transparency and information requirements for customs authorities, appeal and review procedures, tariff and fee regulations, documentation requirements and special and differential treatment for developing countries. the agreement will enter into force when ratified by two thirds of wto members. the european parliament's consent to this agreement is required to ensure that the eu meets its obligations as a wto member and to contribute to the successful conclusion of the 10th wto ministerial conference to be held in nairobi in december.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this protocol because i believe it can improve the capacity of the multilateral trading system to respond to the concerns of developing countries as well as those of european exporting companies which need modernised and simplified customs procedures and regulations together with greater transparency and stronger cooperation. i like the innovative approach of this agreement, which will allow developing and least developed countries to classify commitments and determine the timing of their implementation, as well as linking the implementation of certain disciplines to the provision of technical assistance, with help from donor countries. it should also be noted that the agreement places less emphasis on binding provisions and more emphasis on cooperation in developing a set of good practices that governments can support and respect, which i believe is essential in the current multilateral regulatory framework.
in writing. ‒ i am fully in favour of concluding the trade facilitation agreement (tfa), as it will bring significant benefits to operators worldwide and promote global economic growth. in particular, it will help to reduce costs and increase trade for both the import and export markets, encouraging commercial investment worldwide. in addition, coordination between customs authorities will be essential for the effective implementation of the protocol and in this respect it will be a priority to promote dialogue between countries, in particular developing countries. in this respect, i strongly support the way in which the problems of the implementation of the protocol in the least developed countries are to be dealt with, in particular the adoption of special and differentiated treatment and technical and financial assistance, which is a concrete support to bridge the gap between the different capacities of wto members to implement the provisions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation (wto). the ratification of the trade facilitation agreement by the european union is of great importance, not only because it is the first agreement concluded in the wto since its inception in 1995, but also because of the agreement's innovative tailor-made approach to the least developed and developing countries. they will enjoy special and differentiated treatment, allowing them to choose the timing and the manner of implementation of the obligations arising from the agreement. i am convinced that the success of the trade facilitation agreement will depend to a large extent on the flexibility shown towards these countries. the agreement will also have the great merit of strongly hindering the phenomenon of corruption by introducing electronic payment systems and encouraging the use of the network to disseminate information and documentation necessary for the conclusion of exchanges. the trade facilitation agreement therefore has great potential to act as a lever for the intensification of global trade, which will be able to rely on a more transparent and therefore safer, faster and more reliable trading system.
in writing. - i vote against the protocol. the wto, even with these changes, remains an organisation that is extremely distant from the needs of our production system and has always been distant from our idea of standards for local and quality products.
in writing. ‒ in favour of amending the protocol on the marrakesh agreement. the amendment stresses the importance of issues such as transparency, transit of goods, simplification of customs formalities and above all simpler procedures which will facilitate contacts between countries for exports and relations between companies and consumers. the eu must be strongly committed to promoting free trade which is in the common interest.
in writing. ‒ the marrakesh agreement, signed in december 2013 in bali during the wto ministerial conference, is relevant to trade facilitation (e.g. simplification of bureaucracy at borders). during 2014, this document struggled to materialize. it is for these reasons that i supported the report by mr zalba, who proposed a number of amendments to the agreement aimed at its effective implementation.
in writing. ‒ we support this non-legislative motion for a resolution, convinced that the eu must commit itself to promoting free, fair and open trade, which is balanced and in the common interest of all, and that the wto is the natural framework for the continuation and reaffirmation of these principles. the tfa covers issues such as transparency, transit of goods, sme issues and simplification of customs formalities. it is also the first multilateral agreement to be reached since the wto was set up in 1995. the agreement pursues 'positive integration' through specific practices and addresses disparities in the implementation capacities of wto members, allowing each developing or less-advanced member country to decide on its own when to implement, according to a staggered timetable, each of the technical measures envisaged. moreover, if fully implemented, the agreement will reduce trade costs by between 12.5% and 17.5%, giving consumers access to a wider and cheaper range of products.
in writing. ‒ i have assessed the importance of the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement, as it is above all necessary, as the rapporteur doru-claudian frunzulică has stressed, to ensure transparency in relation to automatic entry and payment of duties, as a means of combating the high level of customs corruption in developing and least developed countries. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. the svoboda report does not make any criticism of our production system, but our opposition would prevent belgium, poland and austria from acceding to the budapest convention on the navigation of the danube river, which is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this authorisation because i believe that the accession of austria, belgium and poland to the budapest convention will bring great benefits to citizens and businesses, not just in the countries concerned.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this measure, which is of no importance for our production system. the budapest convention is essentially concerned with the regulation of navigation on the rhine and the danube. the members of the convention are the states concerned for transport or commercial reasons. the eu as such cannot join, but formal consent from the european institutions is required to allow - in this case, belgium, poland and austria - to join. for this reason, a negative vote would mean that these member states would be prevented from ratifying the convention and there is no reason for them to do so.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision authorising the kingdom of belgium and the republic of poland, respectively, to ratify and the republic of austria to accede to the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterway (cmni). the convention makes a major contribution to the functioning of the internal market in transport by harmonising contractual and inland navigation rules at european level. eleven member states are already contracting parties to the convention, while 15 member states have indicated that they have no inland waterways falling within the scope of the convention. austria and poland have expressed their interest in becoming party to the convention and their participation will undoubtedly promote the large-scale implementation of this legal instrument for the benefit of citizens and businesses. belgium, on the other hand, needs a retroactive authorisation in order to regularise the current irregular situation, having ratified the budapest convention on 5 august 2008 without waiting for prior authorisation from the european union.
in writing. ‒ parliament gave its consent to the decision to authorize austria, belgium and romania to become parties to the convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways. eleven member states are already parties to the convention and the addition of the three states should facilitate the full application of the legal instrument, to the benefit of citizens and businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision authorising belgium and poland to ratify the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterway and austria to accede to it. the budapest convention, which entered into force on 1 april 2005, contributes to the functioning of the internal market in transport by harmonising contractual and inland navigation rules at european level. the budapest convention is an agreement which falls partly within the exclusive competence of the european union. however, it does not provide for the possibility of the european union becoming a party to it. however, member states may not ratify or accede to it without the authorization of the union. to date, 11 eu member states are already contracting parties to the budapest convention, while 15 member states have indicated that they have no inland waterways falling within the scope of the convention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because it contributes to the functioning of the internal market by harmonising contractual and inland navigation rules at european level. i am convinced that the participation of austria, belgium and poland will promote the large-scale implementation of this legal instrument, to the benefit of citizens and businesses.
in writing. ‒ the accession of new countries as members of the budapest convention contributes to a better functioning of the internal transport market. the convention provides for the harmonization of contractual and inland navigation rules at european level. although the convention does not provide for the accession of the european union, member states concerned by navigation on the rhine and danube are encouraged to accede to it. i strongly support the proposal for ratification by belgium and poland and for accession by austria, as the participation of these countries will promote a wider implementation of this legal instrument for the benefit of citizens and businesses.
in writing. ‒ the budapest convention, which entered into force on 1 april 2005, contributes to the functioning of the internal market in transport by harmonising contractual and inland navigation rules at european level. although the budapest convention is an agreement which falls only partially within the exclusive competence of the european union, member states cannot ratify or accede to it without the union's authorisation. austria and poland have expressed their interest in becoming party to the convention, while belgium ratified it on 5 august 2008 and therefore a retroactive authorisation is required. i voted in favour of allowing these member states to ratify the convention because i believe that their participation will promote the large-scale implementation of this legal instrument, to the benefit of citizens and businesses.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this measure. the budapest convention governs navigation on the rhine and danube.
in writing. ‒ mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have decided to give a favourable opinion on this proposal. the 2005 budapest convention was adopted by the diplomatic conference jointly organised by the central commission for the navigation of the rhine and the danube commission in collaboration with the united nations economic commission for europe. it aims to harmonize the rules of contract and inland navigation between european countries. eleven member states, including belgium, have acceded to the convention and both austria and poland have expressed their wish to accede. their participation will promote the wide implementation of this legal instrument, to the benefit of citizens and businesses.
in writing. ‒ the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways entered into force on 1 april 2005. it is of fundamental importance for the functioning of the internal market in transport, since it has the effect of harmonising contractual and inland navigation rules at european level. for these reasons i have decided to support this document, which authorizes austria, belgium and poland to accede to the convention.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the eu allowing belgium, poland and austria to accede to the budapest convention as provided for in article 2 (1) tfeu, as i believe that an extension of this convention to more and more member states would benefit european citizens. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the budapest convention, which entered into force on 1 april 2005, contributes to the functioning of the internal market in transport by harmonising contractual and inland navigation rules at european level. austria and poland have expressed their interest in becoming parties to the convention. their participation will promote the large-scale implementation of this legal instrument for the benefit of citizens and businesses. belgium ratified the budapest convention on 5 august 2008. a retroactive authorisation is therefore necessary in order to regularise the current irregular situation. the draft decision therefore authorises belgium and poland to ratify the budapest convention and austria to accede to it. i voted in favour of this report on assent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal by mr svoboda to authorize austria, belgium and poland to ratify or accede to the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways (cmni).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have supported the keller report with conviction: the report identifies some key priorities, considers the figure of 40 000 migrants to be insufficient and calls for it to be just a starting point and for the quota system to become permanent. i think that what we heard this morning from juncker is absolutely not enough and i think it is absolutely wrong to continue with an obsessive distinction between economic migrants and refugees. this distinction shows that the main policy is aimed at controlling migration flows rather than protecting the right of asylum. i hope that the union's policy on migration will soon be changed, that the policy on asylum will be changed, that we will think of a welcoming european citizenship and that the dublin regulation will be amended.
in writing. i think this report is a clear picture of the eu's inefficiency: with over 180,000 migrants arriving in italy in 2014 and over 200,000 in greece, the aim of this text is to take care of 40,000 of them. i think it is totally unacceptable that the eu should be addressing the issue of mass immigration into our territories in such blunt terms. for all the reasons i have just mentioned, i voted against the keller report.
in writing. ‒ while the emergency of pressure from asylum seekers continues, as is also shown by the agenda and the debate taking place in this plenary, we approve today the legislative resolution on the relocation of the first 40,000 asylum seekers. this is a measure of particular interest to italy and greece and can serve as a valid test for a permanent emergency transfer system which the union must adopt as soon as possible. in the resolution i support, parliament agrees to the first transfer of 24 000 asylum seekers from italy and 16 000 from greece over a period of two years. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. another important point emphasized in the resolution is the special attention to be paid to the situation of unaccompanied minors, who now account for a significant number of arrivals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the time has come for europe to show its unity and solidarity by coming to the aid of those member states which have been most severely affected by the migration crisis and are bearing the brunt of it. italy and greece are facing, alone, a momentous challenge affecting the whole continent, and it is right that the other members should also play their part, in a spirit of solidarity which should be the hallmark of european construction.
in writing. ‒ no member state can effectively tackle the refugee crisis on its own. the european parliament, in a resolution of 29 april 2015, stressed that the eu's response to tragedies in the mediterranean must be based on solidarity and a fair sharing of responsibility, in particular towards the member states hosting the largest number of refugees, such as italy and greece. parliament has called for a binding quota for the distribution of asylum seekers among all member states. the principle of solidarity is also at the heart of the european commission's strategic response to the crisis in the mediterranean. as a first step in implementing the principle of solidarity, there is a need for the mandatory relocation of persons in clear need of international protection from italy and greece to other member states. emergency relocation is only the first step: the european union must be able to take action to help the people of the mediterranean, and we must be able to take action to help the people of the mediterranean.
in writing. ‒ this report is one of the symbols of the inefficiency of the european union. the big achievement here would be taking in just 40,000 asylum seekers who arrived in italy and greece in 2014. in 2014, 180,000 people arrived in italy illegally. and it's an even more ridiculous figure when compared to the data from the first half of 2015: 115 thousand irregular migrants have arrived in italy by sea alone. well over 200,000 in greece alone. and we're voting now, september 2015, with a full year of delay. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of a temporary and emergency system for the relocation of 40,000 asylum seekers from italy and greece, who are under intolerable pressure, to other eu countries over a period of two years. however, this emergency relocation is only a first, provisional step towards implementing the principle of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility between all member states. i therefore ask the commission to present a legislative proposal on a permanent relocation mechanism by the end of 2015. we must also look at the long term, considering the problem of the dublin system, the community regulation on political asylum, which is rendered ineffective by the non-equalisation of national asylum systems. dublin says that refugees must apply for asylum in the country of first entry. and this is a problem, because there are only a limited number of countries that have an external border. reforms are therefore urgently needed to overcome the shortcomings of the current dublin system and to arrive at a new system of fair distribution for all member states.
in writing. ‒ the report states parliament's support for the establishment of a permanent mechanism for compulsory relocation of refugees; this should be triggered automatically when a particularly intense flow of migrants occurs, as is the case today. italy and greece are in fact obliged to take in thousands of refugees, and the treaty itself refers to the principle of solidarity in this matter. the report states that relocation measures are only a first, emergency step towards a system of equitable sharing of the responsibility for reception among all member states.
in writing. ‒ as a european citizen and an italian, i can only welcome the commission's proposal to relocate 24 000 refugees who have arrived in italy and 16 000 who have arrived in greece. the problem is that since the commission took this decision, the number of migrants fleeing war has increased dramatically, another 68 000 in greece and 67 500 in italy. the islamic state in syria and the war in libya are not waiting for the european union. we need more than temporary measures. these people must be distributed throughout the union, with discretion. the refugee camps are sometimes very real camps, and children cannot live there permanently just because we do not agree on how to welcome them. we have to hurry, we don't have much time. more quotas of refugees in each country, asking them where they want to go. sometimes they have relatives in a european country they are trying to reach or who speak the language and this would promote integration, developing a sense of belonging and loyalty to the adoptive country. we hope that the european commission will take this into account in the next package of measures it is expected to present before the end of the year.
in writing. ‒ the proposal voted on today finally takes a 'european' approach to the issue of immigration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as regards the particular plight of unaccompanied minors, i think it is important that the clarification has been introduced that the new mechanism should not reduce the protection already provided by the court of justice (which means that the protection obligations fall on the country where the child is actually present, even if different from the country of first arrival or the country where he or she has applied for asylum). other concerns remain, such as the scope of the decision, which is limited in number and strictly limited by the nationality of the refugees; the possibility of suspending the mechanism as a 'sanction' against italy or greece (but, in fact, to the further detriment of the applicants for protection); the absence of a time limit for the procedure, which starts from the arrival of the migrants, protects them. nevertheless, this decision in itself represents an important step forward and a very useful instrument in practice. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of temporary measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece. in april 2015, more than 800 people lost their lives trying to reach europe. no member state can address the challenges of immigration and the refugee crisis on its own. europe must therefore step up its joint efforts to prevent further disasters and to deal effectively with the refugee crisis, fulfilling its duty to provide protection to those in need. the european parliament, in a resolution of 29 april 2015, stressed that the eu's response to tragedies in the mediterranean must be based on solidarity and a fair sharing of responsibility, in particular towards the member states hosting the largest number of refugees. the european parliament has called for a binding quota for the distribution of asylum seekers among all member states. in this report, parliament fully supports the commission's proposal for a binding relocation measure.
in writing. ‒ the issue of migration is very complex and would require a broad-based response. however, at the moment italy and greece (along with hungary, to be exact) are forced to manage an emergency for which the eu has a moral duty to intervene. it is a pity that the legal obligation, which should have been enshrined in the dublin regulation, has not been properly designed and therefore the peripheral countries are left to deal with the situation on their own (or, better, without the obligation of others to intervene). i am clearly of the opinion that migratory pressures must be managed, and that the idea of cooperation must be a direct consequence of the schengen agreements which provide for free movement between states. finally, this concept has also reached the capitals that matter most.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the parliament's report on the proposal for a decision on temporary measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece. the refugee crisis cannot be solved by individual member states, but requires an effective european response. the key words are solidarity and responsibility, which must take on a different meaning than they have had up to now. i wholeheartedly support parliament's proposal on the binding quota for the distribution of asylum seekers among all the member states. the emergency relocation is only a first step, implemented with a temporary derogation from the dublin regulation. it is understood, however, that the system currently in force has created considerable and unsustainable imbalances between the various member states and needs to be adapted without further delay to new requirements.
in writing. ‒ in response to the crisis situation in the mediterranean and to the migratory flows, the commission has presented a series of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility measures between member states to help those on the front line. on 13 may 2015, the commission presented a european agenda on migration, which includes immediate measures to prevent human tragedies and to address emergencies, as well as a new strategic approach to manage migration flows in the medium to long term. the proposal aims at the practical implementation of the solidarity obligation, as laid down in article 78 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, by proposing emergency relocation which provides for the mandatory distribution of 40,000 (later increased to 160,000) persons in clear need of international protection from italy and greece to other member states through a binding mechanism for the distribution of refugees between member states. since parliament is only consulted in this procedure which remains within the council, i believe it is essential that the european parliament should speak by a large majority to affirm the principle of solidarity, of a fair sharing of responsibility between all the member states and that a permanent relocation mechanism should be established based on clear and defined criteria. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision establishing temporary measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece, because i believe that the migration phenomenon which is affecting the whole of the eu must be reorganised effectively and as soon as possible, in order to enable member states such as italy and greece to deal with an emergency situation characterised by a sudden and unmanageable influx of third-country nationals. these are mainly asylum seekers, that is, people who have fled their country because of war, poverty, violence. however, the mediterranean coastlines are not ready and do not have sufficient reception facilities to help such a large number of migrants. i therefore believe that it is essential to improve relocation by promoting family, social and cultural reunification, which is an expression of the principle of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility between all member states. the shortcomings of the dublin system have created major difficulties in the distribution of migrants, and action is therefore needed by the member states to reform the system as soon as possible, bearing in mind that each of them is basically a person asking for help.
in writing. i have given a favourable opinion on this proposal. the report fully shares the view that all member states must be united in tackling the challenge of migration, which is a european challenge and not just a challenge of the border states. greece and italy have been under intolerable pressure for months. they need to be given adequate support. as an italian and a sicilian, i strongly support the principle expressed in this report of shared responsibility and a significant push for solidarity between peoples.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision introducing temporary measures in the field of international production for the benefit of italy and greece. we must act quickly with common european rules, with the principles of solidarity and responsibility as the cornerstones of effective response to the refugee crisis. the eu must step up its joint efforts to prevent further disasters and thus fulfil its duty to protect those in need, while safeguarding one of europe's greatest achievements, the free movement within the schengen area.
in writing. ‒ due to geographical proximity, greece and italy are subject to unmanageable migratory pressure. the two countries therefore need solidarity and shared support from the other community states. on the basis of these assumptions, the keller report fully supports the european commission's proposal for the definition of binding measures, which envisage the relocation of 40,000 refugees from greece and italy, among all the member states. i agree with the approach and the aim of the proposal and have decided to support it favourably.
in writing. ‒ in view of the migratory flows affecting europe and certain states in particular, in particular italy, and considering it essential that europe respond in unison and observe the principle of solidarity laid down in the treaties, and also considering that immigration cannot continue to be regarded as an emergency but is a phenomenon which will continue to affect europe for years to come, i thought i should vote in favour so that a common policy can finally be identified in both the short and long term.
in writing. ‒ migration is becoming more frequent, with more and more people leaving their home countries in search of a new destination. greece and italy have always been the countries most affected by this incessant phenomenon. to address this emergency, member states need to work together and draft laws to manage migration flows in order to protect host countries. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour of the proposal for a binding distribution of refugees between the various member states, in accordance with the principle of solidarity and responsibility sharing.
in writing. ‒ i chose to vote against because the number of immigrants relocated is absolutely ridiculous compared to the total number of people landed in italy and greece during the reference period.
in writing. ‒ the phenomenon of disembarkations across the mediterranean sea is taking on enormous proportions and is putting a strain on the reception and asylum systems of the member states which are at the forefront and confronted with an increasing number of disembarkations. this report aims to give concrete implementation to the solidarity obligation under article 80 tfeu by proposing an emergency relocation measure providing for the mandatory distribution of 40,000 persons in clear need of international protection from italy and greece to other member states through a binding distribution key for refugees between member states. the report makes it clear that parliament repeatedly stresses that emergency relocation is only a first step, however important, in implementing the principle of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility between all member states and that it calls for the establishment of a permanent relocation mechanism based on clear and defined criteria to be activated automatically.
in writing. ‒ while i largely share the westphal report's views, i believe that the desire to improve the coordination of different policies and better integrate urban development objectives in a greater number of areas through a european urban agenda risks extending the role and powers of the commission to an area where i believe the principle of subsidiarity should remain intact, which is why i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the development of urban areas naturally intersects with the main challenges facing the european union. i voted in favour of this resolution, which supports the commission's initiative to draw up a european urban agenda. it is therefore useful, as the resolution calls for, for the commission to present an analysis of the data relating to the programmes already planned and supported in this area by the european funds allocated through the regions in order to arrive at a concrete strategy with objectives and results that can be monitored. the urban strategy must be coordinated with some of the main european programmes, such as the digital agenda and the connecting europe facilities plan, in a dimension that must not be limited to the size of the macro-urban areas, but must enhance the specific vocations of small and medium-sized urban areas, also by virtue of technological developments and their impact on the socio-economic dimension.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that eu policies should support functional cities and urban areas, enabling them to express and realise their full potential as engines of economic growth, employment, social inclusion and sustainable development essential for the progress of the whole european continent.
in writing. ‒ under the pretext (and the good intention) of improving the coordination of the different policies and better integrating the objectives of urban development in a greater number of areas through a european urban agenda, the report proposes to extend the role and powers (interventions?) of the commission in a field where, on the contrary, the principle of subsidiarity must remain intact. abstention from voting
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in this chamber, i voted in favour of the report on the urban dimension of eu policies today on the following grounds: - it is clear how essential it is to overcome traditional administrative boundaries in the joint search for solutions to economic, social, environmental and demographic challenges. - it is well known how difficult it is to cross national borders and to take up voluntarily in europe the challenges arising from one's own national territory. - i join the chorus of those who share the need for a clear multi-level governance model, so that all stakeholders, down to the individual citizen, can be involved in solving today's major economic, social and environmental challenges. i therefore share the report and the call for greater synergies between eu-funded programmes (life, horizon 2020, etc.) and national, public and private investments.
in writing. ‒ the report contains interesting and shared aspects of the need to develop a truly integrated approach to territorial development at european level. it has the merit of addressing the four main challenges of the urban dimension (management and governance, smart growth, inclusive growth, green growth), but remains vague in relation to regeneration and revitalization of historic urban centres, and the environmental impact of further urbanisation. these are two important points, no doubt, which, together with the vagueness about the figure to be drawn for coordinating european urban policy, have made me inclined to abstain.
in writing. ‒ in europe, 72% of the population live in cities, a proportion that, according to the european commission's estimates, should reach 80% by 2050. this phenomenon of urbanisation, while having potential for development, is also likely to increase the challenges facing: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. although more than two thirds of the union's policies directly or indirectly affect cities, they have not been able to respond fully to local needs, either because of the fragmentation of instruments and initiatives or because of the lack of real and effective involvement of cities and urban areas in their definition, programming and implementation. in order for these policies and the european investment funds to contribute effectively and effectively to the development of territories, the urban dimension needs to be strengthened in multi-level governance to link local needs to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the report voted on today in plenary goes in this direction and stresses the need to draw up a european urban agenda in the near future to identify the issues to be tackled as a matter of priority in the union's policies. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that mr westphal's report fully illustrates all the challenges that arise in the urban context with which europe is confronted on a daily basis given the continuing expansion of cities. in fact, there are many problems in the built environment, such as pollution, poverty, traffic and so on, which i think the eu needs to tackle through more specific urban policies and cities themselves need to play a more active role in their implementation. i also express my full support for the creation of a european urban programme which can better analyse the territorial impact of cities and coordinate the different urban instruments and policies implemented in europe; this will be achieved by identifying a person responsible for designing projects to solve urban problems, taking account of the specific needs of each area. i believe that this project can be a valuable help to cities in improving the environment and the lives of citizens and in implementing a uniform policy in the union to solve common problems in many town centres.
in writing. ‒ i welcomed this own-initiative report on the urban dimension of european union policies, as it is time to recognise the increased importance of cities for the central role they have acquired over time in the european governance landscape. a more active role will not only improve their participation in the european decision-making process, within the mechanisms designed to ensure that subsidiarity and proportionality are respected, but also and above all the introduction of the urban dimension in the strategic instruments and european funding, which will represent the real impetus for a more participatory and multi-level policy. i hope that the announced european urban agenda will be drawn up with a pragmatic approach to offer concrete instruments to make european cities protagonists in the european system.
in writing. ‒ the debate on the european urban agenda is at a turning point. the next dutch presidency has announced that it will be one of the cornerstones of its strategy. but we must be prepared for the amsterdam conference next spring. i think there are at least two other priorities which should be stressed. the quality levels and standards of urban areas, whatever their size and nature, must be guaranteed, asymmetrically addressing infrastructure and intangible needs. the model of territorial vision and management must also be changed, from one based on purely structural assessments to one that focuses strategically on relational characteristics, both in terms of cooperation between countries and economic and social flows. the urban agenda cannot therefore be an object in itself, and even risks not representing an added value, unless it is synergistic with two important european strategies: the digital agenda and the connecting europe facility (cef). only in this way can the barriers which prevent, especially in small and mediumsized areas, the ability to monitor the economic and productive processes and changes taking place be overcome.
in writing. ‒ more than 70% of the eu's population lives in cities, so many of the environmental and economic policy challenges facing the eu are linked to the urban dimension. the eu treaties do not provide a legal basis for urban policy, and so we have seen how intergovernmental cooperation - often informal - has developed, which is defining a shared vision of urban development. member states have therefore drawn up documents such as the leipzig charter, the toledo declaration and the territorial agenda 2020, all of which are non-binding agreements. this has led in recent years to the need to devise an eu urban agenda aimed at facilitating the development of a sustainable eu policy for urban development. the report, while addressing the four main challenges of urban management such as governance, smart growth, inclusive growth, green growth, remains vague on two key aspects: the regeneration and re-use of historic urban centres (ideally aimed at avoiding the construction of ghettos with the consequent social, economic and cultural exclusion of a large part of the citizens) and the environmental impact of further urbanisation. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i appreciate the attempt to improve the coordination of different policies and better integrate development objectives, but this is an area where interference must not be allowed and the principle of subsidiarity must remain intact.
in writing. the fact that europe is an internal policy is not only due to the fact that about two thirds of european policies directly or indirectly concern cities, but also to the fact that currently about 72% of its population live in urban areas: it is impossible not to consider the impact of our decisions on cities and their citizens. this requires a rethinking and updating of urban areas in line with the main criteria that will be at the heart of the strategy 2020: sustainability, inclusion and investment in services, because cities are the first point of contact between europe and its citizens, our calling card and our opportunity to make our commitment tangible and concrete. i therefore find it essential that europe coordinates its various areas of competence by strengthening the urban dimension and development and by providing for greater involvement of cities, while fully respecting the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's own-initiative report on the urban dimension of eu policies, given the great importance of urban areas for the eu, both socially and economically: 72% of the eu population in 2014 lived in urban areas and two thirds of european gdp comes from cities, which are incubators of new economic activity and innovation. i believe that the role of cities in european policy-making must be strengthened, with a bottom-up decision-making process that gives the territories a voice, understands their specificities and highlights their diversity. a genuine multi-level governance, therefore, which recognises the diversity of european cities and their indispensable role in the practical implementation of eu decisions and legislation. the urban agenda therefore needs to be strengthened in order to fully implement the principles of proportionality, subsidiarity and partnership and to create sustainable economic development that is conducive to the social inclusion of the most vulnerable. in order to promote a more integrated approach based on the territory and also to take advantage of macro-regional strategies, i believe that cities need to be more involved in the programming of the structural funds: i therefore welcome the rapporteur's idea of establishing a political body within the commission responsible for the urban agenda.
in writing. i have chosen to vote in favour of this proposal. the 'functional urban areas' of the union are formed by a single polycentric structure built around large, medium and small-sized cities and their neighbouring areas, thus extending beyond traditional administrative boundaries to encompass diverse territories united by the same economic, social, environmental and demographic challenges. eu policies should support cities and functional urban areas by enabling them to express and realise their full potential as drivers of economic growth, employment, social inclusion and sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the urban dimension of european union policies. cities have a key role to play in the europe 2020 objectives in the fields of employment and cohesion policy. cities are home to challenges but also to economic opportunities and services directed at the citizen. the eu must act for a sustainable urban development policy, considering that more than two thirds of all european policies affect cities in a more or less direct way.
in writing. ‒ the report starts with an analysis of the current impact of eu policy on cities, highlighting the potential scope for improvement of european urban policy. i particularly appreciated the proposal in the document to appoint an eu special representative for urban affairs to coordinate the various initiatives. i agree with the aims and the structure of the report and have therefore decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the eu is facing many challenges linked to the rapid urbanisation processes under way. if we are to make the best of the cities of the future, while developing multi-level governance and promoting a better quality of life for people, then an effective european urban agenda is urgently needed. i therefore thought i should vote in favour of ensuring that european citizens have sustainable urban development.
in writing. ‒ for the first time in human history, the number of people living in urban centres has exceeded the number of people living in agricultural or other areas over the past millennium. to manage this growing phenomenon in the best possible way, the european union must have the appropriate analytical tools. this own-initiative report aims to examine the challenges facing eu policy in relation to urban areas and to define the guidelines and limits of a future sustainable eu policy for urban development. the report also proposes the appointment of an eu special representative for urban affairs within the commission. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in line with my group, i voted in favour of the appointment of a european union special representative for urban affairs. he will be responsible for coordinating policies and proposals at the horizontal level and for monitoring and optimising the work chosen and undertaken at the vertical level. urban development is a topic of fundamental importance for europe and for the well-being of its citizens. urban areas are centres of economic activity, innovation and employment and must be carefully managed through targeted policies and well-defined infrastructure plans.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because the report aims at shared objectives, namely to improve the coordination of different policies and better integrate urban development objectives, but to this end it suggests extending the commission's powers in a field where, on the contrary, i believe that the principle of subsidiarity must continue to prevail.
in writing. ‒ more and more european citizens live in cities and the rapid development of urban centres has created a number of challenges that europe needs to address. the european city of tomorrow requires first of all smart growth, the creation of favourable conditions for innovation and research, and the development of an environment favourable to business and young people through cutting-edge and efficient education. a central point is mobility: it is essential that the use of green and sustainable transport is increased and that cities achieve and maintain high energy efficiency standards. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. the report aimed to set the direction for a future eu policy on sustainable urban development by promoting an integrated approach to territorial development, with a view to achieving a functional european urban agenda that would equip cities and functional urban areas with the tools needed to achieve the europe 2020 strategy's objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. however, the final report, while dealing with the four main challenges of the urban dimension - management and governance, smart growth, inclusive growth, green growth - appears vague in two fundamental respects: the regeneration and re-use of historic urban centres (just think for example of the rejection of town center management which would have allowed to counterbalance the attractive capacity of large suburban shopping centres) and the environmental impact of further urbanisation. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of experts in the field of urban policy, and for the establishment of a european union-wide network of experts in urban policy. it's for these reasons that i abstained.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the eu's role in the middle east peace process.
mr. elmar brok, there are two blue cards for you. i ask you to answer, but i would like to inform the honourable members that after this request i will not be able to accept more than one blue card per speaker, because that will also be detrimental to speeches on request.
i still have blue card requests from members who have to speak during the debate. if i give the blue card to the speakers, we end up with the debate in two hours, which seems impossible to me, there is a timetable to be respected, there are all the speakers in the following debates to be respected. so from now on i will no longer accept blue cards from members who are already registered to speak and i will be obliged, at the end of speeches on behalf of the groups, to ensure that the time allotted is strictly observed, because there are so many speakers in this debate and there are so many in the next debates. i have to say, out of respect for all our colleagues, that i will be taking the floor of those who will be out of time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, i wish i could look to the future with a little more optimism for the middle east peace process, but i would be lying to myself. that is because the situation today tells us that the control of power in israel, as in palestine, is firmly in the hands of the most dangerous party of all: the party's over! this is true in israel, where the new netanyahu government appears to be crushed by its own electoral rhetoric, increasingly isolated and partly held hostage by the nationalist and ultra-orthodox parties that support it. and so every effort seems more catalyzed towards maintaining the status quo. to prevent a reconciliation between the palestinian factions, between hamas and fatah, in order to have no interlocutor; the european parliament has been very active in the negotiations on the nuclear agreement with iran, and i am sure that the council will be very active in the negotiations on the nuclear agreement with iran. the palestinians too have their own grave responsibilities, first and foremost, a ruling class now light years removed from the people they represent; abbas's resignation may be an act of desperation or a tactical move, time will tell, but it certainly sows uncertainty in the short term. we are therefore left in the grip of this eternal postponement, while gaza remains a vast, desolate open-air prison and illegal settlements continue. our role cannot be merely to finance infrastructure and projects which are often destroyed, it is good to involve the arab countries, it is good to revive the role of the quartet and to work on the conditions for regaining confidence, but if we do not get out of this quagmire with a strong, decisive and energetic policy on both sides so that there are no more, we will have neither a two-state solution nor an authority in the context and unfortunately we will sow the seeds of extremism and daesh even more.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear: even in the present phase, which is still marked by pessimism, the analysis of the facts reminds us that the two-state solution has no alternative. a long time ago, shimon peres had to say that it is not true that there is no light at the end of the tunnel in the middle east, quite the opposite! he said there was light, but there's no tunnel. it was a bitter remark that comes to mind every time the difficulties between israel and palestine are repeated and the conflict, with greater or lesser intensity, has never stopped. and it is this perception of the intangible nature of conflict, of its inevitability independent of the world's efforts, that leads some to look for alternative solutions, to think that, before even going through it, you have to find the right tunnel. but the truth is that there is no alternative solution, because of all the viable ways to peace, there is only one. the tunnel is there, but we have to convince israelis and palestinians to go through it. the conditions for peace between israelis and palestinians have been known for years, perhaps for decades, and have been the basis of all the various peace negotiations, from madrid to oslo, from camp david to taba, from the road map to geneva. the impetus for the peace process, the two-state approach, is clearly indicated in the european parliament's resolution. i understand the difficulties you yourself have described, madam high representative, but it is the task of the european union to take stronger and more decisive action to this end. we must also be aware that if we are to put out the fires in the middle east, this is the first decisive step to take.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, your great commitment to peace in the middle east, as you know, is being met by a steady deterioration of conditions. if the two-state solution is not to disappear, this trend must be reversed quickly. but this means setting priorities for diplomatic action. you spoke very well of trust and leadership. neither is rooted where pain is sovereign. well, that's a good place to start. that is why it is essential to stop and overcome the conflict, starting with the blockade of the gaza strip where the humanitarian problems, particularly those affecting children, are truly dramatic and unacceptable, and at the same time i believe it is important to give the un refugee agency the material conditions to work. only in this way can conditions be created which will enable the community, starting with the european union, to make an effective contribution to the search for a new negotiation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to be able to address the high representative, mrs federica mogherini, once again in this house on a subject on which she has shown great commitment and determination from the outset. almost a year ago, we were here to discuss the recognition of the state of palestine by the member states of the european union. an important moment, but as she herself said then, "not enough". one year later, the palestinian leadership is weak, israel has a new government, the most right-wing government ever, although i must remember positively the courageous plan proposed by erik bahr and the fortunate experience of the joint arab list and we have the situation in gaza, increasingly disastrous both for those who live there and for the security prospects of israel and the region. the commission is now here to receive an impetus to continue the difficult work of mediation and political and diplomatic pressure that is needed. the union can play a key role, and parliament fully supports it in making all the necessary efforts in conjunction with ferdinando gentilini, following the indications given by the council conclusions of 20 july, through a multilateral process involving all the regional actors. peace, security and stability are our goals and we can achieve them by our actions which intelligently combine principles and the defence of human rights and construction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not deny that i am deeply concerned about the human rights situation in belarus. despite the release of the political prisoners who have been held hitherto, some of whom were candidates in the last presidential elections, the situation remains quite worrying and dramatic. on the one hand, for the freedom of expression of the independent media which is always in great difficulty, especially because of the abuses in article 2 of the administrative code - if i remember correctly - on the other hand, also because the intimidation continues and we will probably witness yet another sham electoral process. but this must not lead us to try to repeat the mistakes made in the past with ukraine. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the situation in the ukraine, and that it is a good thing that the commission has taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the situation in the ukraine.
vice-president of the commission/ high representative of the union for foreign affairs.– mr president, i will be very brief, because for me this session was mainly a good chance to listen, to take note and to make sure that parliament’s thoughts about the way forward for our relationship with belarus are fully incorporated and included at this stage of reflection. so i would like to thank the honourable members very much for their contributions, especially those encouraging more cooperation between the european union and belarus at all levels. i think this is the first time since the end of 2010 that we have had the opportunity to engage on a more positive agenda in this regard. i agree with the president of the delegation who said that the approach to belarus should be holistic and not limited to our policy on sanctions. indeed, several of the 29 steps could be activated, including in the economic field. finally, as indicated, we are considering, together with the 28 member states, the way ahead in response to the release of the prisoners. our response will need to be proportionate and adequate, taking account of timing and sequencing. you all pointed out the pros and cons, the question of timing, and the difficult challenges still ahead of us. at the same time, we agree that there is a window of opportunity now that should not be missed. so the question is how to do it in the smartest, most positive and most productive way. obviously i believe any eu response has to be, and will be, accompanied by steps to increase cooperation. i am sure that we will be able to continue our work together in this direction, looking very closely at what happens in the coming weeks, especially in view of the upcoming elections.
i have received seven motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 123 of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at 12 noon.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the nuclear agreement with iran.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are agreements which go down in the annals of history and others which make history. i hope that time will tell whether this agreement falls into the second category. i would like to sincerely thank high representative federica mogherini and all the staff of the european external action service for the great role they played in the negotiations. unfortunately, we have to say that the final goal of full implementation is still a long way off, but we will assess this in time. the reintegration of tehran into the international community can threaten the sometimes too strong positions of riyadh and tel aviv and their confidence in being supported by the west, regardless of any concrete action. we hope that both sides, and above all iran itself, will be able to moderate their role in the proxy conflicts in the region over time and that israel will then be encouraged by the agreement itself to return seriously to the negotiating table for a just and lasting two-state solution. we must not delude ourselves about the actual change in iranian policy, we know very well that there is a lot to be done on the issue of human rights and we have areas of policy cooperation - as you said before - that present us with ample room for growth. but i believe that if iran is willing to comply with this pact globally, it could have a growth of 5% in 12 months and 7% in the next 18 months. we must be willing to make the united states understand that the principle of pacta sunt servanda cannot be renounced for electoral purposes. keeping our word is crucial to supporting iranian reformists and to prevent a new division in the world with the triangle of russia, china, iran on one side, and the us, eu and allies on the other, we also have the opportunity to sew together the middle east, with everyone's contribution, it is a goal that - let me say this - historically we cannot fail.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it would seem that an agreement has been reached which is above all in the interests of europe. i'd like to shift the angle of view a little bit. perhaps it was in the interest of the current administration in washington to reach this agreement, given the results of the military offensive in syria and iraq, which did not achieve the expected results, because even the centers in the heart of the isis area, such as mosul and ramadi, are still in the hands of the warriors of allah and will be for a long time, especially if we continue to not adopt the policy of involving russia in the offensive against the islamic state. in washington's view, the agreement should completely change the geopolitical landscape of the region, creating a balance between the four regional powers, iran, turkey, saudi arabia and israel. for now, there is a situation that could in the american view allow a disengagement from military commitments. for now! when the high representative - whose optimism i share, although i personally think with the pessimism of my modest intelligence - sees above all immediate benefits for industries, for example the american arms industry - because saudi arabia and israel protest but have rushed to make large purchases from american manufacturers. i have two questions left: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. secondly, will this agreement really bring benefits to the european union, which has spent so much on this and its interests in the area?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after nearly two years of negotiations, an important agreement has finally been reached with iran on nuclear matters. this is a historic achievement and i agree with vice-president mogherini that it is a sign of hope for the whole world. the attention must now be directed to the management phase of the agreement, bearing in mind that the result achieved, important as it is, does not lead to definitive disarmament, since it is a text for the control of proliferation which binds tehran to not produce sufficient material for the construction of atomic weapons for only ten years. the european union and the international community must therefore continue to press for tehran to change course and, after 36 years of confrontation, to play a responsible role in the world, by implementing the necessary reforms, by engaging in dialogue with saudi arabia and by helping to resolve the shiite-sunni conflict. a word of thanks for the work done and the tenacity with which the negotiations for european union have been carried out goes without doubt to our high representative federica mogherini and her team. the result he brought home shows that europe is capable of building bridges even between powers that do not speak to each other.
you know very well from your own experience that the time is allocated by the political groups and the 'catch the eye' procedure is a procedure at the discretion of the presidency on the time available for debates. if there are no objections, i will give the floor to you, because i have no reason not to give it to you. but remember next time to ask your political group to respect your priorities on the question of parliamentary debates.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you, mr lope fontaignèr, because here in europe we sometimes see ideas and realities that seem like science fiction to us, because the social economy is the engine from which we should restart a devastated welfare state, a devastated economy, a mass of european citizens in absolute poverty. these are golden opportunities that i see miserably sinking in my country, because here i hear about crowdfunding, i hear about collaboration, projects, young people who receive vigor and momentum, and i see in italy the red cooperatives, which are the pool of votes exchanged between politics and employment "i will give you a job, if you offer me a vote, if you bring me your vote and that of your family". the scandal of the capitalist mafia is based on the social economy, on the red cooperatives and on this shameful way of dealing with a state, a condition that is on the verge of being tolerable. i am ashamed, every time i speak in this house, i am ashamed to report a situation, that of my country, which is on the verge of decency, indeed it is indecent. so i thank you for your work and i agree with you and i am afraid of having to encourage once again a situation which i know that when it arrives in italy, don't give me the card, mr benifei, because you know very well what i am talking about, so i won't accept your card this time, because you must have the courage to criticize yourself in your own country, because we are coming here and you, like me, should be ashamed of what is happening in our country, of what has been done with the red cooperatives and of who has benefited, who should have benefited. it could have been an opportunity for service recipients and service providers to grow and provide opportunities, and instead, no, we traded and gave each other grades and jobs. it's a shame, i won't accept the card! (the speaker refuses to accept a blue card application (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the few who are here, i have heard about employment, i have heard about the right things that concern our europe. but they are contrary to what we heard this morning, to the shirt i am wearing tonight, which is that we are with a lot of unemployment and we are going to go and continue to think about putting all the refugees and all the illegal immigrants around the world in jail. it's okay to help refugees, we'd miss it! it's okay to help the people of africa, but let's help them at home! let's help them in their homes! how many europeans are out of work? how many italians don't have jobs? how many people in holland, france, spain are unemployed? so are all the other states! how many in greece have big problems? so i think that in this europe there is only one person in charge, who is the person in charge in europe, it is not junker who is the butler, it is merkel, she says i.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mrs dlabajová on her report. the situation on the labour market in europe is worrying, as we all know, with unemployment at 10%, and youth unemployment at 20%, without taking account of the disparities between the various member states. i would remind you that in italy, the country from which i come, we are well over 40% and to all this is added the great contradiction of some states having a shortage of workers, while others have high unemployment. the rapporteur's report insists very strongly that the mobility of workers in europe is low and i agree with her: a united europe cannot afford zero-point mobility. our task as representatives of the european people is certainly to encourage this, and we in the five star movement believe in the importance of the mobility of workers in europe, but only if it is a voluntary opportunity for personal growth and not the necessary consequence of the lack of work in some countries and of relocation, because this would make some countries poorer and others richer, contributing to european disintegration rather than integration. the creation of a strong and stable labour market is certainly dependent on investment in education, the fight against early school leaving and the creation of a new entrepreneurial culture. i therefore also very much appreciated the strong reference to small and mediumsized enterprises, which are at the heart of economic productivity and job creation. the creation of a labour market fit for the 21st century also requires incentives for start-ups, micro-enterprises and, above all, a greater spread of entrepreneurial culture among young people. for these reasons, and despite some points which i may not entirely agree with, i believe that this report deserves our support globally. i would also like to emphasize that this report is the result of a collective effort by the shadow rapporteurs. for this reason, i think it is preferable to an alternative motion tabled by a single group, a motion whose message can certainly be shared but whose method i cannot possibly approve of.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the report on social entrepreneurship, social innovation and the fight against unemployment which will be voted on tomorrow and which i have been able to follow as rapporteur for my group, we have included important indications for the future and which will have to be supplemented by the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for employment; in order to do so, it is essential to support social economy enterprises in achieving these objectives, given their best capacity to preserve jobs during the crisis and to create new ones. we must fight to ensure that the union's funds are disbursed more effectively and really reach those who need them on the ground. we must ensure that the groups most excluded from the labour market, in particular the disabled, are also reached and guaranteed inclusion. in the report we made clear the need for full and fair access to procurement by social enterprises. in some countries, such as italy, but not only, it is the cooperative movement that is making a mass mobilization, with petitions and bills to combat abuses, exploitation and even criminal events in the world of the social economy, precisely because in the history and values of the international cooperative movement, the opposition to those who exploit workers harms society. i think that this should be acknowledged, it should be remembered, it should be valued and not belittled. in conclusion, i would like to say that the labour market in europe is changing rapidly, reacting and adapting to the demographic challenges of technological innovation. it is impossible and perhaps even useless to oppose all this, but it is our task to ensure that this change is not made at the expense of protecting the fundamental social rights which make the european social model unique in the world and which are the basic condition for a fair and sustainable economy for the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that we have precious human capital in europe, in my country, in italy, animated by civil passion in a process of renewed community involvement which today gives meaning to a market idea that puts sustainable growth, especially from a social point of view, before profit. in a modern welfare vision, the social economy today becomes a lever for new and good jobs, especially for the most fragile and vulnerable people; the differences in the legal framework of the various member states constitute a sometimes insurmountable obstacle. the different regulatory frameworks - finally of european character - which enable the business system, associations and foundations to overcome the present fragmentation in order to be able to compete on the whole european market must therefore be promoted. i believe that the choice made by parliament and the commission, mr commissioner, to recognise the crucial role of the social enterprise system as a major player in the framework of the 2020 strategy to strengthen cohesion and economic growth policies can no longer be postponed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if the labour market is to be revived, first of all we need measures to support the european industrial system, by removing the bureaucratic obstacles which weigh down on businesses and by easing the tax burden, shifting it from labour to other sources of taxation. young people have always been a particularly weak segment of the labour market and the economic crisis has contributed to worsening their situation. it is essential, for example, that the commission strengthen the monitoring of the national plans for the implementation of the youth guarantee and constantly verify their effective implementation. particular attention should be paid to education and training, making them more functional in the labour market, perhaps with specific programmes for innovation and entrepreneurship. we have a great contradiction: we have impressive levels of unemployment in some countries and about two million jobs are vacant on the continent. new mechanisms for greater labour mobility must be identified and i stress the importance of erasmus+ and eures crossborder partnerships in this respect.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the sustainability of health systems is a matter of crucial importance, for although the 28 countries share the same values, there are still deep differences between them, and we have often spoken of a europe of disparities. nevertheless, there are some cross-cutting problems that are common to all systems, even those in the richest countries: the data tell us, for example, that as many as 86% of european hospitals are suffering from a shortage of medicines, often very serious shortages, even of essential medicines such as those for basic chemotherapy. this is a real paradox! medicines are approved at european level, but the union does not have a coordinated action plan to deal with the shortage of medicines. parallel imports, as the commissioner pointed out a few days ago, are also often the cause of inequalities in access to essential medicines. in this context, i believe it is necessary to create a comprehensive european framework to take stock of the shortcomings. the ema's efforts to put together a european catalogue of deficiencies are commendable, but unfortunately they have so far not borne the fruit they hoped for. there is no european framework for the cost of medicines, each member state has its own procedures, which means that the same medicinal product is evaluated 28 times, resulting in a waste of resources, time and lack of access to life-saving medicines. to give you an example, trastuzumab, a powerful breast cancer drug that is on the world health organization's list of essential medicines, has not been distributed fairly in europe, and in some european countries it took more than seven or eight years for the drug to be made available to patients. so how many european citizens have died? in order to move towards harmonisation of pricing between countries at european level, it is necessary to define a european health technology assessment which will serve as a reference for all countries. we also submitted a written statement with other colleagues. i'll stop there, but we really need to face this emergency together.
the committee on constitutional affairs has adopted a report on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the european parliament and of the council against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr chrysogonos, for his very rich report, which also includes the contributions of the opinions. our committee on the afco has focused mainly on the legal certainty which must be guaranteed to all citizens of the union. that is why we have been calling on the member states to avoid practices such as gold plating, which undermine it from within, and we have stressed that it is certainly an advance that the treaty of lisbon already allows the court of justice to impose penalties with the first judgment of default. a strong call is also made to the eu institutions to respect primary law when establishing secondary law rules, adopt policies on economic and social issues and here the reference to the fiscal compact i would say is obligatory. we regret that parliament is still not sufficiently informed about pre-litigation situations. the you pay it online platform is certainly a useful development, but it is not yet fully accessible and usable by us. we also call for the role of parliament as a full co-legislator and for this reason we are calling for an autonomous ex post impact assessment system which will also allow us to close the policy cycle better.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, legal certainty is an indispensable principle of our legal order, whose high ethical value, even before it is legal, must be pursued by the european union and the member states in order to guarantee the freedom of the individual and the equality of citizens before the law. the fact that the chrysogonos report has stressed the centrality of this principle deserves particular appreciation and i also thank mr chrysogonos for pointing out another important point, namely that austerity measures imposed on member states should never have a negative impact on the respect of social and economic rights, since the institutions of the european union, even when they participate in the so-called troika, are bound by the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights. it is a serious matter that most of the infringement procedures in the field of home affairs concern the late transposition of the directive on the prevention and suppression of trafficking in human beings, as well as the fact that many complaints concern the asylum sector. this must be overcome immediately and it is up to president juncker and the commission to follow up what was said yesterday in this house, by ensuring that union law is implemented and respected.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to speak on this important subject in front of 15 people is humiliating. it is not humiliating for me, but i think it is humiliating for the european parliament which i, we, represent, also because human trafficking in all its forms is an unacceptable horror. it should be for this hypocritical europe, i feel so much hypocrisy in here, so much false goodness, which only serves to hide a conscience stained with blood. it is undeniable that there is a monetary tragedy in africa and the middle east, just as it is clear that there is a criminal system that profits from the suffering of so many people. in 2015, 250,000 migrants arrived in europe, many of them crossing the mediterranean, and at least 3,000 people died. we cannot, as we know, take in millions of people leaving africa - and i don't want to, because i don't want africa to be depopulated and full of isis flags - and we cannot even allow these murderers and death traffickers to continue to make these death journeys to give hope to men, women and children. we need to create humanitarian corridors there, near where the war is. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue card answer i certainly do. we must control our borders. this is what our citizens ask us to do, but above all we must prevent people, illegal immigrants, from leaving these lands, we must help refugees who leave because of the war, but we cannot take in all refugees. if we are the people who have to defend the african people, we must certainly help them there. this is what europe should do, not depopulate the african continent, but help the african continent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the mediterranean is today the scene of the most serious cases of human trafficking, in which the main victims are unfortunately women. in the face of tragedies that we know and that have been widely exploited by the news, there are many other underwater cases that occur. many migrant women are for example brought on board when they are pregnant and perhaps in the last weeks of their pregnancy, and then they are given birth in italy, and then in europe. who knows how many babies, for example, have died or how many women have given birth and their bodies have been thrown into the waves with no one to care. europol also points out that there are at least 30,000 smugglers hiding behind immigration across europe and that they have turned it into an illegal economic activity. we're talking about revenues that now exceed the revenues that come from selling guns and drugs, so it's the most lucrative illegal business that exists right now. what concrete measures do you think you will take to tackle this problem and those who profit from it, which is likely to become the most serious form of human trafficking in our time?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is very important that the commission should be asked to monitor the action taken by the member states. i believe that we as a parliament must act with ever greater urgency, work ever more resolutely, so that the issue of women's right to self-determination as a whole becomes a central point of any human rights policy. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i believe that, for example, the issue of affective and sexual education which we discussed yesterday and the day before in this house is a subject which is strongly connected with what we are discussing. i do not believe that we can simultaneously terrorize affective education and call for a gender dimension in the approach to the issue of trafficking. i think we need to mention not only that 68% of women are victims, but also the sex of the exploiters: they're mostly men. i think we must not make the mistake of thinking of them as bodies, as women, as subjects, not just as bodies.
member of the commission.– madam president, let me start with something more general. i see that some honourable members use every opportunity to attack what constitutes a great – and maybe the greatest – achievement of the european union: freedom of movement in a europe without internal borders. i will repeat that schengen is a part of the solution: it is not the problem, schengen is not the problem. by making full use of schengen rules we can be more efficient in checking and controlling our borders. let me now focus on the issue before us. colleagues, thank you very much for this debate. it was short but very substantial. we obviously share the same view. the gender question in human trafficking needs to be fully taken into account. let me repeat it very clearly: trafficking is a crime against human rights as expressed in the european union’s charter of fundamental rights. there are still many victims of trafficking, and that is unacceptable. ms björk, as you well know, the criminalisation of users of services who knowingly use victims of trafficking is considered as a measure to reduce demand in the anti-trafficking directive. the directive urges member states to consider measures for criminalising the use of services with the knowledge that the person is a victim of trafficking. this means that the directive does not oblige the member states to criminalise such users of services: it simply obliges them to consider doing so, and some do. however, as i said, we are working on ways to reduce demand. the european union has already taken strong action. we need to assess our achievements, as we are coming to the end of the union’s anti-trafficking strategy. i am fully committed to an exchange with members on this topic, with a view to adopting the new strategy for next year.
in writing. we have repeatedly spoken out against the phenomenon of human trafficking, which we consider to be a serious violation of fundamental rights. unfortunately, recent eurostat data reveal a very dramatic reality: in europe, 68% of trafficked persons are women, 17% are men, 12% are girls and 3% are boys. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's gender mainstreaming policy in the field of education and training, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's gender mainstreaming policy in the field of education and training. we therefore call on the commission to continue to monitor progress in the implementation of the directive in the member states, for example through the eu strategy for the eradication of trafficking in human beings, which clearly identifies violence against women and gender inequalities as one of the root causes of trafficking. but let's go further: we ask you to tell us what concrete measures you intend to take to develop knowledge of the gender dimension of trafficking in human beings and to take strong measures to condemn the delays in the transposition and compliance by member states of this directive. the current strategy expires in 2016, we can't wait any longer!
the agenda includes seven motions for resolutions on russia, in particular the cases of eston kohver, oleg sentsov and olexandr kolchenko.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it seems clear to me that the human rights violations against kohver, sentsov and kolchenko must be highlighted and condemned by this parliament. what we do know is that the instrument of the debate on human rights violations is not being used very efficiently, not very appropriately; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is what we have unfortunately noticed this year, and we have also noticed that the votes on these resolutions are often not followed up, and that is why i am asking myself whether we can deal with all violations against any country with the same weight and the same measure and not make continuous resolutions against russia, which then have no effect.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the principle of national jurisdiction requires that the sovereignty of a state be respected within its own borders, and the principle of the responsibility to protect requires that the state protect its own citizens and that other states intervene to that end where the sovereign state is unable or unwilling to do so. in this sense of international solidarity, which is legally required, we now call on the russian government to release two ukrainian and one estonian citizen who have been detained following summary trials that have failed to meet the standards of due process, including the refusal to respond to allegations of torture against the officers who conducted the interrogations. in the kohverla case, russia is accused, among other things, of crossing the estonian border and kidnapping an officer on duty. the trials of kolchenko and sentsov took place in crimea, a territory unilaterally annexed by russia and not recognized by the international community. this would therefore result in a lack of competence at territorial level. the civilian defendants were also tried by military courts with a clear lack of jurisdiction. the european parliament therefore calls for the basic principles of international law to be respected and for the release of those who are illegally detained.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on angola.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about angola, we are talking about a very strange country, a country where more than 60% of the population lives below the poverty line, where there are some of the worst slums in the world, but which at the same time has a capital like rwanda, which is re-proposing itself as the centre of trade in africa, and is also the second largest oil producer on the african continent, it is a country in great growth. as has already been mentioned by my colleagues, the focus of this resolution is on the very high level of corruption, i believe that angola is in the top ten in the world for corruption, it has a government that has been in office for 36 years and that jealously guards all state affairs; the fact is that those who get close to it, those who want to get their hands on these businesses, especially oil and diamonds, end up getting burned and then these human rights violations that we are talking about happen. it is clear that we must take a much more careful and stronger approach and ensure that our companies, which go to launder money in that country, are well controlled.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, angola has been at the centre of controversy in the past over diamond mining. in 1998 the united nations imposed sanctions on countries that bought rough diamonds without a certificate of origin attesting to the correct mining process, in order to safeguard the safety of miners. rafael marques de morais was sentenced for denouncing this sadly well-known reality, that is, for a crime of opinion, in clear violation of the right to freedom of thought. the angolan government is turning to the courts of justice to muzzle human rights activists in the country. in the de morais case, international observers who attended the trial behind closed doors reported serious violations of the principle of due process. it is therefore important that the european union demands monitoring of diamond mining activity so that it is carried out in the most transparent way and in compliance with safety standards, while at the same time protecting activists who, in the exercise of their freedom of expression, denounce serious violations of human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the case of angola is unfortunately typical of africa. on the one hand, we have poverty, drought, fires, soil destruction, lack of diversification of agriculture, alcoholism and a great need for development projects, on the other hand, a rate of corruption that really hits a very high peak. it must also be said that from this point of view the government, instead of taking steps to reduce it, is in fact very focused on crushing human rights defenders and those who in any way try to push for a different angola and a different future. we are perhaps too light-hearted about such regimes. i would remind you that angola is also a signatory to the cotonou agreement, as other members have also said. perhaps we should also remember that if we do not beat the rate of conditionality, we will be seen as having little credibility when we make the statements made in this house, and therefore we expect the commission to take concrete measures also against the government of angola.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on azerbaijan.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a bit of a coincidence that we are talking about belarus and azerbaijan at this part-session, and it is wonderful to see how this parliament is adopting a double standard with regard to two countries which are geographically in the same area and which, if they were to be placed on a human rights list, would probably, if we wanted to, make such a list. however, in belarus we impose sanctions, we do business with azerbaijan, because it is clear that in the logic of this strategy, as my colleague mr preda has indicated, we need azerbaijan because it supplies us with hydrocarbons and we want to free ourselves from dependence on russia, and so "who cares if azerbaijan violates human rights? who cares if he tortures journalists and human rights defenders? the important thing is that we do business!" it is absolutely wrong this kind of attitude that the epp is taking that they don't even want to vote for it because, in my opinion, if we are talking about human rights here, we put human rights before the business we want to do with azerbaijan, so: i would like to thank you for voting for this revolution today.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the azerbaijan question, i should like to start by saying that i feel that i am a friend of azerbaijan and the azerbaijanis, and i do not agree with what i have heard so far. what is the purpose of this emergency resolution? it's useful, practically, when you have to blow your nose and take a tissue, use it, period, this resolution counts for nothing. in your opinion, does this resolution frighten anyone in azerbaijan, make them worried, say anything in particular? no, not at all! this is the ridiculousness of the european parliament, which is making paper that is of no use at all, except to blow its nose. so, you talk about islam and you talk about islam. moderate islam is in azerbaijan, there are more rights for women than others, yes or no? is there a moderate islam, yes or no? that is true, and when you say "there are no rights", but then, dear europeans, why are you doing business with china? do they not, for example, execute, kill as they have killed 700 people in the last year alone? or, when you talk about nigeria, but there is oil there too and so nigeria has to be seen in a different way! or, you talk about so many other countries, but what is the substance? which, as i said earlier, a colleague said: it's not that there's one weight and one measure, two weights and two measures, there's 100 weights and 100 measures. so i say, "long live azerbaijan", "long live the azerbaijanis", we go there and talk to them, with a real table not with lobbies that then change things. europe must go there and talk to them and find solutions. this is a serious way to do decent foreign policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since 2009 the european parliament has adopted seven resolutions on the human rights situation in azerbaijan. the facts we have discussed today in this debate show that despite 7 resolutions - not one 7 - the freedom-killing azeri regime has eradicated all forms of democracy in azerbaijan; it is also no secret that the azerbaijani regime is continuously bombing the neighbouring areas, i am referring to armenia, i am referring to nagorno karabakh, where a few days ago a woman and her child were injured. i think that our duty is to adopt this eighth human rights resolution, not only to ensure that what was approved in 2009 is put into practice, but also to start, with sanctions, to return a certain democracy to the azerbaijani people, because the azerbaijani people deserve democracy, the azerbaijani regime simply deserves sanctions that return freedom to the people.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not quite understand the proposal: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already said that he is not in favour of the proposal. if it's the shredding, there's a free vote in the documents that each of us received. if we are dealing with postponing the vote, we intend to keep the vote on human rights in azerbaijan, because we believe that this parliament must absolutely speak out. after that, the house is sovereign.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to reply to mr brok, because he says that we must not make this a matter of regulation but a political matter. it seems absurd that someone should come and tell us that this is a sensitive political issue, which should be dealt with in committee and not as a violation of human rights, this one on azerbaijan, while the one on russia, which we have just voted on, is fine. we have to stop playing games! in azerbaijan there are violations, we put it in human rights and we vote for it, not because you change your mind! just this.
in writing. ‒ i do not share the positions taken in this resolution, but rather believe that it proposes counterproductive solutions which follow the wave of european policies pursued so far and which have produced disastrous results on the employment front, and for these reasons i did not intend to support the text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that cohesion policy is the european union's main tool for reducing economic, social and territorial disparities between european regions, improving their competitiveness, and fighting climate change and energy dependence, while contributing to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy objectives. i also believe that cohesion policy is one of the flagships of the union's policies and that investment in this area has helped many disadvantaged areas of the eu to avoid falling victim to the crisis.
in writing. ‒ the economic and financial crisis has put europe's economic and social fabric to the test. to get out of the crisis and ensure a solid recovery we cannot repeat the mistakes of the past. it is necessary to monitor the market and its dynamics, and to equip the union with the necessary instruments to act swiftly. the logic of austerity and austerity alone has not brought the continent out of the pockets of stagnation. it is important to note that one of the few economic areas where eu policy has delivered results is that of regional development funds, which, although limited, have represented a modest but significant injection of liquidity into the territories that benefited from them, to which the creation of 594,000 new jobs is attributed. without coordinated and centrally managed investment, there can be no solid recovery. therefore, strong support should be given to the progress of the european integration process and to investments that should be focused on sectors that can produce multiplier effects on employment and growth, such as innovation or education, together with the strengthening of regional financing for smes, which are the regional engine for job creation, and progress towards a digital and eco-sustainable economy.
in writing. ‒ the substance of the report is: to promote economic, social and territorial cohesion in the eu, more is needed ... the european semester i vote against!
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the chamber, i voted today in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament resolution on 'investment for growth and jobs: promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion in the union' on the following grounds: - regional disparities have increased and the employment growth since 2000 and the competitiveness of many member states have been lost, particularly in the southern member states; - the original role of cohesion policy and its instruments as defined by the treaty make it the main policy instrument for achieving smart, sustainable and inclusive growth throughout the eu; i therefore agree with the rapporteur on the satisfaction of the new eu investment plan for europe to complement structural and cohesion investment and his report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the report analyses the commission's sixth cohesion report (july 2014) and sets out the macro objectives for cohesion investment for the seven-year period 2014-2020. although the overall approach is good, some points remain untenable. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial contribution to the european agricultural guidance and guarantee fund (eaggf) is based on the principle of the european agricultural guidance and guarantee fund (eaggf) and the principle of the european agricultural guidance and guarantee fund (eaggf). i have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i fully agree with the rapporteur who underlined the great success of cohesion policy. it has in fact made it possible to achieve important objectives which have helped citizens in this difficult period of crisis: firstly, the european regional development fund, thanks to the investments made, has created a great many jobs and supported important projects to reduce the main economic, social and territorial disparities between european regions, contributing to the development of many areas where public and private investment had fallen sharply. moreover, this cohesion policy has proved to be the only proven instrument for growth and development which can help member states to combat unemployment. i also fully agree with the rapporteur that the effects of the investments made under this policy have been growing in recent years. the fact is that the member states still have the funds with which to increase employment, create new jobs and support those who are unemployed.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy has been and remains the main instrument for reducing economic and social disparities between the various regions of europe. it has also demonstrated its ability to react rapidly to changing times and needs through more flexible measures, especially in the field of employment, by re-directing 13% of its budget to this end. the problems of its - hopefully - increasingly effective implementation and payments must be tackled. i agree with the need for a mid-term review to check whether the objectives set have been met and to assess new and emerging needs. i voted in favour because the content of the own-initiative report, which was drafted in a timely and detailed manner, contains all the directives which should in my view be implemented.
in writing. ‒ the report, even beyond its content, which is good, is an opportunity to return to the discussion of cohesion policy and the structural funds. it is paradoxical, to say the least, that while everyone in all the member states, albeit at different speeds, is taking shape and putting into practice the projects which will mark the next six years and which, as has already happened, will help to change the face of regions and cities, in parliament the debate is languishing. we linger in long and often old arguments, always overcome by the conceding of facts. it is a contradiction, almost a paradox, that as a democratic institution we have repeatedly asked to be involved in the main decisions which are taken and which characterize the good progress of the planning and spending of funds, and at the same time we have shown ourselves incapable of taking initiative and keeping pace with the times. i feel that there is a terrible time lag which, if not corrected, will leave parliament even more marginalised. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. welcome to these reports. but above all, intensify the discussion and bring it back to reality without delay, by listening to and offering a concrete contribution to the local institutions involved in the use of the funds.
in writing. ‒ the treaty on the functioning of the european union requires the european commission to submit a cohesion report every three years on 'the progress made towards achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion'. the publication of the sixth cohesion report was delayed due to the adoption of the new legislative framework for cohesion policy 2014-2020 and its structure was amended to reflect the europe 2020 strategy. i think the sixth cohesion report is positive, as it shows that cohesion policy has clearly mitigated the negative impact of the decline in public investment during the 2007-2013 programming period. investment in cohesion has given stability to regions by ensuring the flow of finance at a time when national public and private investment has declined or even stopped. the report also sets out the key objectives for investment in cohesion for the period 2014-2020, including energy efficiency, employment and smes.
in writing. - the recipe is absolutely wrong. they propose greater european coordination to promote economic and social cohesion in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on 'investment for growth and jobs: promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion in the eu' because, in these years of crisis and austerity, with the dizzying fall in investment, cohesion policy has been the main source of investment and can be a significant source of support for recovery in the future. cohesion policy has a key role to play in reducing disparities in europe, in that cohesion funds, if well spent, can be the engine to attract further investment. however, it is essential to improve the effectiveness of this policy, particularly in certain european regions and member states, which have shown significant delays in absorbing funds or have not been fully used because the crisis has made it impossible to secure the public co-financing share originally planned. it is therefore also necessary to decouple co-financing from the deficit calculation in order to free up as much resources as possible, to bring cohesion funds to the territories and, finally, to give cohesion policy a new impetus in the long term by linking it effectively and efficiently with the eu 2020 strategy and creating a new multiannual funding framework.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr deutsch's report. the report sets out the key objectives for investment in cohesion for the period 2014-2020, based on long-term, multi-level and integrated governance that can deliver real european added value. the time has come to focus on energy efficiency, employment and support for smes to accelerate the exit from the crisis and create job opportunities, especially for our young people.
in writing. ‒ the achievement of economic, social and territorial cohesion is an integral part of the europe 2020 strategy. investment in cohesion, such as energy efficiency and smes, sectors which promote economic and financial growth, are resources made available by social policy in order to boost job creation. the eu must therefore focus on the proper implementation of social cohesion policy, which has demonstrated its ability to implement the negative impact of the economic and financial crisis on investment levels in the member states.
in writing. ‒ we strongly support this measure because in recent years, in the midst of crisis and austerity, cohesion investment has given the regions stability, ensuring a certain flow of funding, at a time when national public and private investment was waning and coming to a complete halt. the report also highlights the promising nature of the 2014-2020 programming investments in areas such as innovation, the digital and green economy, employment and smes, where the potential for sustainable job creation, especially for young people, is evident. we have expressed our support for this measure, despite the fact that territorial cohesion policies still show considerable room for improvement, so that the commission can already start working on post-2020 programming on the basis of the indications received from the 2007-2013 period.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that cohesion policy needs to be given a boost, since it plays a decisive role in reducing regional disparities and promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion between the different regions of the member states. cohesion policy is the most effective tool in creating jobs in this phase of the economic crisis in the euro area. it is the main investment strategy in the real economy. solidarity between member states is needed to grow together. cohesion policy needs clear indicators to assess progress in order to identify possible implementation strategies at all levels. the imperfect functioning of this policy leads to structural delays which weaken its effectiveness. the eu's credibility is at stake because of back payments for european social fund programmes. europe needs a policy with simplified management procedures for the new funding period, which is effective, efficient and leads to smart and inclusive growth.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is one of the pillars of the eu's mff. although we are still at the beginning of the 2014-2020 programming period, it is important to call for the correct use of these funds for the period after 2020 as they are necessary for europe's growth and development. i would also like to stress the importance of these funds for smes, which are particularly close to my heart, and i hope that greater synergies can be created between the structural funds, the cosme programme and horizon 2020.
in writing. ‒ energy efficiency, employment and smes, sectors with promising potential for sustainable job creation, are all key elements of the new cohesion policy 2014-2020. i share the rapporteur's view that the original role of cohesion policy and its instruments, as defined by the treaty, make it the main policy instrument for achieving smart, sustainable and inclusive growth throughout the eu. cohesion policy cannot be seen as a mere tool for other sectoral strategies. i believe that its approach must be based on long-term governance. a possible integrated and multi-level governance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report setting out the achievements and key objectives of investment in cohesion for the period 2014-2020: energy efficiency, employment and smes. cohesion policy should not be seen as a mere tool for other sectoral strategies, but rather its long-term, integrated and multi-level governance approach offers essential added value to the implementation of eu measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i consider the current european investment policy for growth to be completely inadequate.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy aims to develop smart growth, to be pursued through energy efficiency and the creation of new jobs in the sustainable economy. cohesion policy also has to counterbalance the sharp fall in public investment, which in some cases reached 60%, particularly affecting the southern regions. it is therefore essential to assess a long-term perspective that supports smes, promotes employment, implements resources for youth and education, pays particular attention to the territorial dimension and promotes a homogeneous and sustainable regional development. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report analyses, in essence, the commission's sixth cohesion report and, in perspective, sets out the key objectives of investment in cohesion for the period 2014-2020: energy efficiency, employment and smes, which are sectors with promising potential for sustainable job creation. the rapporteur rightly focuses on strengthening the administrative capacity of public authorities, especially at local and regional level, and on the digital and low-carbon economy, education and support for smes. the delay in the approval of operational programmes and a backlog of payments for the 2007-13 programming period are also reiterated. the worrisome situation of young people in terms of employment is also worth mentioning. however, there are serious concerns both in the various references to the need for 'sound' economic governance and in a particular paragraph which praises the juncker plan and its potential leverage, and which stresses the need for the 'famous' complementarity between the juncker plan and the european structural and investment funds.
in writing. the deutsch report analyses the commission's sixth cohesion report and sets out the key objectives for investment in cohesion for the period 2014-2020: energy efficiency, employment and smes, which are sectors with promising potential for sustainable job creation. there are many positive elements, such as governance aspects; the need to strengthen the administrative capacity of public authorities; new measures to increase efficiency and focus on results, in particular on innovation, the digital and low-carbon economy, education, employment and support for smes. the commission also criticises delays in the approval of operational programmes and payments for the 2007-2013 programming period. however, there are serious concerns about the need for 'sound' economic governance, the appreciation of the juncker plan and its potential leverage, and the need for complementarity between the juncker plan and the european structural and investment funds. these reasons have already been repeated by m5s and have led me to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the kukan report is acceptable and balanced, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because i am convinced that the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations 2012 has achieved a number of important results, although some issues remain unresolved. the involvement of the over-50s must be a central objective of union policy, which would have immense positive repercussions on the continent's economy as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the outcome of the european year of active ageing is broadly positive. in most countries, the planning provided for in the national programmes at the beginning of the european year 2012 was broadly respected. the most satisfactory results were achieved in raising awareness through initiatives and events at eu and national level. the european year achieved the intermediate objectives of strengthening existing networks, creating synergies and partnerships between different administrative levels and policy areas, promoting long-term policies and strategies and making technological, organisational and social innovations accessible. the objective of establishing new networks has, however, rarely been achieved. the development of comprehensive national policies, strategies and programmes on active ageing in a number of countries demonstrates the political impact of the european year 2012. the objective of mobilising stakeholders on the topic of active ageing and intergenerational solidarity has been achieved and this can provide an incentive to improve the next thematic years and implement a more effective organisational and communication policy.
in writing. ‒ balanced and responsible text. i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the chamber, i voted today in favour of the report on the report on the implementation, results and overall evaluation of the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations (2012). i agree with the rapporteur that the sustainability of the results achieved is of the utmost importance, as are the two results of active ageing and solidarity between generations and the active ageing index. i also believe that demographic change in europe should be seen as an opportunity, rather than as a burden on european society, as the rapporteur has said. i therefore agree with the motion for a resolution and the call for the development of a 'silver economy' based on the economic opportunities arising from public and consumer expenditure linked to the ageing of the population.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the implementation, results and overall assessment of the european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations was voted on. i abstained because paragraph 17 of mr kukan's report states that member states should apply incentives to firms to hire more older workers and take measures to facilitate the extension of working life. i don't think it's in the best interest of the worker.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the evaluation of the european year of ageing and solidarity between generations. active ageing is the process whereby health, participation and safety opportunities are optimized to improve the quality of life of older people. the european year achieved two main results: the active ageing index and the guiding principles for active ageing and solidarity between generations. parliament also called on the commission to support the forthcoming covenant of mayors on demographic change, a wide-ranging network which already brings together 270 local and regional authorities, researchers and civil society organisations and which is committed to tackling demographic change in europe by promoting age-appropriate environments in close cooperation with the world health organisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, after the objectives of the first report have been achieved in 2012, new funds will be needed to address some of the problems of understanding the strategies, and new plans for some countries where they have not been understood at all. i believe that the european union's intentions in proposing measures to combat unemployment among people over 50 years of age, together with increased incentives to employ more people of adult age, are of fundamental importance, especially at this time when we need to get out of the crisis. i therefore welcome the action taken by the european union to defend discrimination against older people at the edge of the labour market, who are affected by the structural changes in the world economy.
in writing. ‒ the eu population is facing a progressive ageing due to low birth rates and increasing life expectancy. active ageing enables people to fulfil their potential for physical, social and political well-being throughout their lives, while providing them with adequate protection, security and care. this important topic was the central theme of the european year 2012, which has given rise to important long-term projects to raise public awareness of the importance of active ageing, to promote intergenerational exchange for mutual learning and to provide a favourable framework for concrete measures and commitments. although these preliminary objectives have been achieved overall at national level, i agree with the measure as the policies outlined during the european year should be the starting point of a common and uniform path for the creation of new networks which, through synergies and partnerships between various administrative levels and policy areas, promote long-term policies and strategies and make technological, organisational and social innovations accessible. to achieve these goals, i believe it is essential to follow the active ageing index and the guiding principles for active ageing and solidarity between generations, as the most important achievements of the european year 2012.
in writing. ‒ 2012 was the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations. the kukan implementation report assesses the results of the various active ageing initiatives and monitors progress towards these objectives, also because it is crucial that, given the ageing of the european population, tools are developed to support older people by promoting an inclusive and sustainable society. the report also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's social partners are able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union. i abstained as a result.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report and commend the two main achievements of the european year 2012, namely the basic principles of active ageing: solidarity between generations and the active ageing index.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal. the objective of the 2012 european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations was to raise public awareness of the importance of active ageing, stimulate the exchange of information, promote active ageing policies and create a framework for concrete action by the union, its member states and all public and private sector stakeholders. the european year 2012 provided a significant political impetus which helped to initiate a discussion on the challenges of active ageing and solidarity between generations in europe. the coexistence of generations must be based on solidarity and be characterised by mutual respect, responsibility and care.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the implementation, results and overall assessment of the european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations. it is important to raise public awareness of the importance of ageing and to promote activities that help to combat age discrimination. the elderly should not be seen as a burden but, on the contrary, as an asset to the present generation, thanks to their experience.
in writing. ‒ one of the biggest challenges facing europe is the ageing of its population. it is therefore necessary to promote active ageing and solidarity between generations. i have decided to vote in favour of the report, but i would also like the commission to allocate funds to support the covenant of mayors on demographic change.
in writing. ‒ european society is increasingly composed of older people. the european union must make a serious effort to place older people increasingly at the centre of social and health programmes. the year 2012 has been designated as the european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations. the overall objective was to facilitate the creation of an active ageing culture in europe, based on a society for all ages. i believe that the european year 2012 has achieved good results, especially with regard to the involvement of local authorities. europe must continue along this path.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i support the desire to create a culture of active ageing in the member states based on a society that ensures the best standard of living for all ages. the findings of the report on the european year 2012 take into account the active ageing index and the principle of solidarity between generations and on this basis urge the european union to scrutinize these data in order to activate appropriate policies. the resolution also stresses the need to provide funding for the covenant of mayors on demographic change.
in writing. ‒ while the report sets out many positive and acceptable aspects, such as increased road safety, the use of alternative fuels in public transport, the protection of workers, social and welfare conditions; i think that the commission has not been very effective in tackling what i consider to be fundamental issues, such as the fight against social dumping. i would have liked this text to call for a serious revision of the directive on the posting of workers and the repeal of large parts of the services directive in order to finally offer the right protections to our citizens and our companies, but that has not been the case, which is why i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep report on the transport white paper because the text adopted highlights how investment in european infrastructure can be a driver of growth and jobs for the whole union. the eu's only chance of meeting its targets is to have credible greenhouse gas emission reduction targets for 2020, accompanied by investment in clean technologies and innovation. this must be combined with a strong modal shift, i.e. more goods by rail and less by road for distances of over 300 km. it is now up to the european commission to set up the regulatory framework to implement these important objectives, and we as parliament will do our duty to adopt bold legislative proposals and push member states to adopt innovative transport policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because i believe it is essential that the commission adopts a uniform and ambitious transport policy that will make it possible to create a competitive, efficient, safe, integrated and interoperable transport system. the positive impact of such a result would be immense for both citizens and businesses.
in writing. ‒ finished report, but unlike usual, it has the merit of including a long analytical and detailed list of requests to the commission concerning legislative action to be taken in the transport sector. the positive aspects include: increased road safety (tougher rules on driving licences, alcohol consumption, road safety education, etc.); development of alternative fuels and public transport; protection of working conditions, social and welfare rights (anti-dumping rules); completion of the ten-t. among the negative aspects: more decarbonisation (threats to the fight against climate change); stronger role of the commission and the eu to 'harmonise' member states; timidity about anti-dumping rules: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the house, i voted today in favour of the report on implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport: budget and the way forward for sustainable mobility on the following grounds: i agree with the rapporteur and in particular with the need to highlight aspects of a sound and competitive transport system in a global context; of dealing with increasing competition in international aviation; of moving towards a low-carbon transport system; of shifting the balance between modes of transport; the development of a single european transport area; putting people at the centre of transport policy. it is clear that very ambitious objectives are very difficult to achieve, since they are not supported by a robust, more detailed plan, linked to realistic and achievable short and medium-term objectives, on the path to long-term objectives.
in writing. ‒ the contribution of our delegation was important and significant, as is shown by the fact that the report highlights, in several points, the need to give impetus to the development of less polluting and more energy-efficient and sustainable means of transport. the negative and essential element is, however, that the report continues to insist on investment in the major works foreseen by the ten-t networks, financed through the cef, including the turin-lyon tav. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport. the european commission has presented an ambitious future strategy for a competitive transport system, with the aim of increasing mobility, breaking down the main barriers in key sectors and promoting growth and jobs. the proposed initiatives aim at the same time to significantly reduce europe's dependence on oil imports and to reduce carbon emissions in the transport sector by 60% by 2050. this strategy is very ambitious and has as its main objectives: the need for a robust and competitive transport system in a global context; increasing competition in international aviation; the development of a low-carbon transport system and a single european transport area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i agree with the rapporteur that a mid-term review of the transport white paper is needed not to lower the level of the objectives set in 2011, but to complete it, specifying the targets to be achieved in the coming years. this is necessary to increase and rationalize the efforts being made in the very delicate field of transport in order to create an ambitious, competitive and advanced system. the white paper provides for improving mobility, promoting employment, reducing oil imports and reducing polluting emissions. i very much hope that these important objectives will be achieved in order to improve the whole very delicate system, whose good functioning is based on several interconnected factors, to the benefit of european citizens and businesses.
in writing. the white paper set out in 2011 an ambitious agenda for transforming the european transport system by setting targets to make it clean, safe, efficient and reliable. however, the level of integration of the eu transport market remains low compared to other elements of the economy. in fact, despite the funding made available by the efsi and the connecting europe facility, little has been done to date to improve the connectivity and efficiency of passenger and freight transport, multimodal networks of different modes and services. there is still much to be done in the field of energy efficiency to make transport sustainable and at the same time to make europe independent of oil and fossil fuels. concrete measures should also be implemented to ensure the application of the 'user pays' and 'polluter pays' principles. a common vision of change cannot be achieved without collaboration and coordination between all the actors working at not only european, but also national, regional and local levels. of course, this includes citizens and industry.
in writing. ‒ the european commission, in adopting the white paper 'roadmap to a single european transport area towards a competitive and sustainable transport policy' in 2011, identified the initiatives and measures to be taken in the context of transport policy in the decade 2011-2020. with 40 specific actions to be implemented by 2020, the commission aims to create a transport system with fewer barriers to market entry, better integration between different modes of transport, coherent infrastructure design and widespread use of new technologies. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the implementation of the 2011 white paper to ask the european commission to propose concrete measures and initiatives for a better implementation of the strategy and to insist on the need to maintain the levels of ambition set by the 2011 objectives. the report also stresses the importance of transport for the economy and for the mobility of citizens, while stressing the need to invest in infrastructure. the completion of the trans-european transport network is an essential requirement for a sustainable and efficient european transport system, which needs to be strengthened through the connecting europe facility (cef) and the european fund for strategic investments (efsi).
in writing. ‒ by adopting the report on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport, we are calling for a european transport policy that prioritises sustainable and energy-efficient modes of transport, such as rail. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by rail. i supported this position because it is the only way to improve the quality of life of people living along transit routes and at the same time to ensure efficient transport of goods across europe. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by rail. the ban on excessively noisy freight wagons that we are calling for by 2020 will further promote the rehabilitation of old rolling stock and braking systems in freight wagons, and thus make a significant contribution to reducing noise emissions.
in writing. ‒ the resolution proposes good targets, such as reducing europe's dependence on oil imports, reducing transport emissions by 60% by 2050, using less polluting and more energy-efficient modes of transport, and opting for more sustainable solutions. all shared goals. however, i voted against this resolution because it calls for the priority approval of infrastructure projects to complete the rail network envisaged by the ten-t core network, with a strengthened role for the commission to ensure the effective and rapid completion of these priority european rail corridors. the resolution considers that eu funding should reflect the investment needs for the completion of the ten-t core network, and that the cef and other funding should stimulate investment in transport infrastructure with priority given to sustainable transport modes such as rail. i am opposed to investing in the major works planned for the ten-t networks, and financed through the cef, because one of these works is the turin-lyon tav, a project whose costs are excessive compared to their usefulness, with a huge environmental impact and damage to human health, not necessary to improve the quality of transport between france and italy and whose documents are inaccessible and managed in an opaque way.
in writing. i congratulate the committee on transport on the work it has done on this report, which is looking very carefully at the possible new stages in the development of the transport sector in europe. i think it is important to stress a passage in the text that has just been voted, which calls on the european commission to update its strategy in the light of the emission reduction targets and the new energy and climate policy proposals, in particular with regard to the achievement of the binding target of reducing national greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030 compared to 1990 levels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's own-initiative resolution on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport: i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative, and i hope that the commission will take it up with the council and the council. i believe that the eu has a duty to ensure that its citizens and future generations have safe, modern and efficient transport systems, which are also environmentally friendly and conducive to road traffic. i therefore welcome parliament's call for a transport policy in line with the 2030 environmental objectives: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. i believe that transport policy must be people-centred, and i therefore supported the call for a 40% reduction in the number of people seriously injured in road accidents, for improved road safety and for passenger rights to be protected. as transport is a driving force of the european economy in the global market and a primary source of employment, i fully share parliament's call for safe and dignified working conditions for workers in the sector, promoting quality work.
in writing. i have given a favourable opinion on this proposal. the european commission presented in its 2011 white paper on transport an ambitious future strategy for a competitive transport system with the aim of increasing mobility and promoting growth and jobs. it reiterates its support for the objectives set out in the white paper to achieve the 60% greenhouse gas emission reduction target and stresses that a european sustainable mobility policy must be based on a wide range of policy instruments aimed at the transition to less polluting and more energy efficient modes of transport.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the proposal to implement the 2011 white paper on transport: a budget and the way forward for sustainable mobility. innovation in the transport sector must be efficient and functional and have a pragmatic and realistic vision. the ultimate aim of the report is to highlight the need for priority eco-friendly methods for environmental and climate impact, improving public transport and making it more eco-friendly.
in writing. ‒ given that the sustainability of transport is one of the major challenges facing the urban fabric, i believe that a careful approach at european level is needed, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity enshrined in the treaties. i therefore voted in favour of the commission's white paper on promoting sustainable mobility over a period of time reaching at least 2050.
in writing. ‒ white papers are documents which describe community action in a specific area. the transport sector is, in my view, one of the sectors which requires the greatest degree of integration at european level. in its 2011 white paper on transport, the european commission presented an ambitious future strategy for a competitive transport system that can increase mobility, break down the main barriers in key sectors and promote growth and jobs. the proposed initiatives aim at the same time to significantly reduce europe's dependence on oil imports and to reduce carbon emissions in the transport sector by 60% by 2050. all these initiatives are being implemented and consolidated. parliament has decided to give a positive assessment of the implementation of the white paper and i have also decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport, which aims at a competitive transport system that promotes mobility, development and employment. the proposal also aims to reduce europe's dependence on oil imports and to reduce carbon emissions in the transport sector by 60% by 2050. the key points of this project are the importance of achieving a competitive and efficient transport system, and of facilitating development and competition in the field of international aviation. the report calls for a single european transport area where the needs of citizens are met by a transport policy that can fill the gaps that exist.
in writing. i welcome today's vote on the implementation of the 2011 transport white paper with a view to achieving sustainable mobility. the implementation of the actions set out in the white paper is essential for further emission reductions and decarbonisation in the field of transport. in this respect, priority must be given to the creation of an energy- and cost-efficient transport system, for which the completion of the trans-european transport network is essential. finally, it is essential to promote digitalisation in order to create a competitive, efficient, safe and integrated transport system.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted with conviction in favour of a text which invites us to reflect on the extent to which the glass ceiling still weighs heavily on the academic careers of women researchers and scholars. i know from personal experience, being a part-time researcher, what you're talking about. i believe that the union has a duty to remove such barriers, which are due and are a representation of how much gender discrimination still affects university institutions. i also think it should be very clear that the process of precarious university work has affected young women, young researchers, above all. i believe that this situation must be radically changed and that the union must take radical action to prevent this form of discrimination by restoring funding to public universities. this is also an important tool against gender discrimination.
in writing. ‒ although many of the points are shared, there are many that are unclear and contradictory, so i have opted for an abstention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that it is essential for society, for the scientific world and for the european economy in general, to solve the problem of gender discrimination in science and academia. it is a very serious matter that women, in a developed continent like europe, represent only 18% of full-time professors, despite being 59% of graduate students.
in writing. ‒ the term 'glass ceiling' was coined in 1986 and refers to the invisible, prejudiced barriers that prevent women from rising to positions of responsibility in their careers. the academic career of women also remains markedly segregated vertically. in 2010, the proportion of female students (55%) and female graduates (59%) was higher than that of male counterparts, but men outnumbered women among students and phd holders (in the case of phds, the proportion of female students was 49% and that of female holders 46%). women also represented only 37% of the academic staff. the under-representation of women is even more evident in the fields of science and engineering. gender diversity in senior positions is shown to produce innovative ideas, increased competitiveness and better performance, and more efficient corporate management. more women in management also signals to the market that the company understands the complexity of global dynamics and is ready to compete. we need to overcome prejudices and stereotypes of the past and adopt legislation to ensure gender equality in all aspects of social and working life.
in writing. ‒ once again, the call is for equal rights for men and women, regardless of age, religion, marital status and educational background, especially in certain sectors where women are lacking (science, engineering, management, etc.). the principles themselves could be argued for, but as the cvs explain, the eu is imposing this on individual member states, without taking into account the principle of subsidiarity, which is dear and essential to us (e.g. "consider the creation of gender equality plans as a necessary condition for access to public funding for research, the scientific and academic sectors"). the following table is added: the term "glass ceiling" was coined by journalists at the wall street journal in 1986 and refers to the invisible, prejudiced barriers that prevent women from rising to positions of responsibility in the course of their careers. abstention from voting
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in this chamber, i voted in favour of the report on the careers of women in science and academia and the 'crystal ceilings' encountered today, on the basis of the following considerations: - i agree with the rapporteur, and particularly with the need for radical measures, not just superficial ones; cooperation at the collective level is fundamental and must be undertaken by each of us on an individual and collective basis; - it seems absurd, but we still have to affirm the concept that men and women are different but must absolutely be equal in terms of rights, regardless of age, religion, marital status and educational background; - i agree with those who believe that the concept of equality should be proposed already in schools, where children learn that they are all equal in every aspect of their lives.
in writing. ‒ 'crystal ceilings' are the invisible, prejudiced barriers that prevent women from rising to positions of responsibility in their careers. this report takes account of the professional careers of women and in particular gender equality in academic positions, the need to reconcile professional and personal life, changes in society and institutional projects, progress made so far and actions still to be taken. all these issues have my support and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report because i believe that it addresses in a complete and exhaustive way the problems relating to the obstacles faced by women, especially in scientific careers. although significant measures have been taken, there are still many barriers, which are not only due to preconceptions but also to biological issues. women are thus disadvantaged and it is appropriate to provide services which help to reconcile family and career. i think that's the real issue here. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european framework for the protection of workers from the risks related to asbestos at work.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr vozemberg's report because i think it is well known that women are not only underrepresented, and not only in most scientific and engineering positions, but also in managerial and political positions, but also underpaid, discriminated against on the basis of negative and unfounded stereotypes, prejudices and prejudices. in addition, women are also hampered by the fact that they are forced to take on more parental or family-related obligations than their male counterparts. support for and commitment to the right to gender equality is not merely a consequence of the action of norms or the definition of objectives; they must also be part of a 'cultural change' to support women's ambitions, to raise awareness of the specific obstacles women face in their career path.
in writing. ‒ gender equality is a fundamental principle of the eu, enshrined in the treaty on european union. the report adopted today notes that, despite the positive changes in recent years, women are still underrepresented in management positions and higher levels of scientific and academic management. the report highlights that this disparity is articulated differently within the different member states and urges the commission and the member states to ensure that the principle of non-discrimination, which, in accordance with the lisbon treaty, is an objective of the european union, is respected.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the resolution on the professional careers of women in science and academia and the 'crystal ceilings' encountered. gender equality is an essential condition for ensuring a position of equal responsibility for women and girls, who can benefit from the same employment opportunities and enjoy fully their rights for their emancipation. women should be encouraged to pursue careers in science and research, and all member states should be encouraged to promote the academic field.
in writing. ‒ we are convinced that this resolution, which tackles the issue of gender equality in a sector, research, in which we still see a great deal of inequality, is a good one. the resolution stresses, among other things, how the low presence of women in science and research has resulted in the strengthening of an androcentric approach to research and development: this shows that a sufficiently representative presence of women at the top of decision-making is not simply a quantitative issue but produces distorted effects on the choices made, helping to support inequality and the creation of gender stereotypes (remember that, in the academic world, female rectors make up about 15% of the total). we also welcome the attention paid to reconciling and creating a culture of parenting which relieves mothers of the burden of having to manage both family and work (with the frequent consequence of leaving the latter) through the introduction of adequate paternity leave and allowances. finally, the proactive approach is also important, with the idea, among others, of creating the 'women and science' prize, to be awarded to employers who promote women in the academic and scientific fields in an exemplary way, support women in managerial positions and guarantee equal pay.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the professional careers of women in science and academia and the 'crystal ceilings' encountered, i.e. invisible barriers based on prejudice that hinder the ascent of women to positions of responsibility. firstly, i believe that gender equality is one of the founding principles of the eu, which must also be respected in the academic, scientific and research fields; it is necessary that all forms of direct or indirect discrimination against women should be effectively eliminated. i also believe that it is essential to encourage women to apply for positions of decision-making responsibility and that at the same time action is needed to combat all kinds of barriers which make it difficult or impossible to apply, first and foremost the difficulty of reconciling professional and family life. finally, i note that, in addition to encouraging women's individual careers, institutional changes are needed to overcome barriers to gender equality, in particular with regard to vertical segregation and women's participation in decision-making bodies; i would like to draw attention to the need for the institutions to work to support and encourage these changes by setting new standards.
in writing. ‒ the european institutions have a key role to play and a moral duty to serve as a model for civil society. we therefore all have a responsibility and a duty to educate for diversity and gender equality, so that there is no longer a glass ceiling in europe, especially in the stem disciplines. that is the reason for my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is very attentive to the state of the art of equal opportunities, with particular regard to the world of work. there is a growing need for a strong female presence in the academic and scientific world. member states should have policies on best practices for the recruitment and hiring of scientists and the concept of equality should be proposed already in schools, where children learn that everyone is equal in every aspect of their lives. i supported the rapporteur's proposal because i believe it is important to encourage the constant application of the most advanced european legislation on the subject.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain on mr vozemberg's proposal on the professional careers of women in science and academia, which called for member states to pay greater attention to the recruitment and hiring mechanisms of scientists and to pay greater attention to gender equality.
in writing. ‒ gender equality is one of the european union's core principles. however, despite the undeniable improvements in recent years, women are still underrepresented in many fields, especially in the scientific and academic world. there is a clear problem of discrimination which is manifested in a disparity in access to research positions as well as in a different pay, on equal terms. europe has a duty to guarantee equal conditions for men and women and to combat all forms of discrimination with all the instruments at its disposal. i therefore voted in favour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was very pleased to see this report approved, and i strongly supported it, because here in the european parliament we have witnessed a travesty, another hoax against what is called, in a very general way, the gender theory, gender education. i believe that this terror is a leap into the middle ages and i am very glad that the report has been approved, precisely because it allows us to avoid this leap. i believe that gender education, affective education, sexuality education in schools is very important and must be an integral part of the union's policy against gender discrimination, sexism, transphobia and homophobia. i am therefore pleased to see the report approved and i hope that gender studies, gender issues, will be implemented in training institutions in the european union.
in writing. ‒ member states must pay greater attention to gender equality education by improving the quality of education systems, thereby helping to overcome socio-cultural stereotypes which often create unfavourable conditions for professional development, especially for women. investing in the principles of inclusive education through specific programmes and targeted actions can help to combat gender discrimination and ensure equal access from the beginning of school learning. to do this, it is necessary to promote gender equality in the education system at all levels, starting with primary education. the promotion of an intercultural educational approach based on mutual respect and interreligious dialogue is central to the training of young people who are balanced, tolerant, informed and more aware of their choices. education is the main emancipatory tool to overcome marginalization and discrimination and to combat the violence that is also behind the phenomena of bullying and cyber-bullying. the report contains all these aspects and for these reasons i voted in favour. it is essential to promote educational models free of gender stereotypes and linked to sexist heritage, with a view to enabling the new generations to participate freely and consciously in economic and social development.
in writing. ‒ i did not intend to vote in favour of this report because i think it is extremely biased in many of its passages, focusing on migrants and roma and forgetting, as is too often the case, the rights of citizens of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i support this resolution which aims to encourage efforts at european level to help overcome the gap that still exists for women's training and professional development. we know that today, although women make up 60% of graduates, their work is less well paid and their presence in top positions is less widespread. in this respect, the world of education plays a central role and can also do much to combat stereotypes. stereotypes which must be combated by a careful eye on both the curricula and the training of teachers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i am convinced that education is, if not the only one, the main instrument for empowering girls, whether through teaching respect for fundamental rights and freedoms and equal rights and opportunities between women and men, or through the possibility of self-fulfilment that only a complete education can guarantee.
in writing. ‒ gender equality is equality of culture and of access to education. the union should support a comprehensive gender equality education programme in schools including media literacy, tackling bullying, including cyberbullying, homophobic violence, hate speech and civic education. it is therefore necessary to prepare european action plans with resources to be invested in gender equality together with the creation of gender-sensitive educational facilities, recommending the use of available european instruments for this purpose, such as the investment plan, the horizon 2020 programme and the eu structural funds. parliament should encourage the exchange of good practice in this field between the various educational institutions and between teachers who play a key role in the formation of educational identities and influence gender behaviour in schools. it is therefore necessary to ensure comprehensive continuing education for teachers at all levels of formal and informal education, including peer learning and cooperation with external organisations and agencies, to raise awareness of the impact of gender roles and stereotypes on students' self-esteem and choice of study pathways. girls need positive role models in schools so that they can realize their potential without fear of discrimination.
in writing. ‒ beyond the obvious, whereas a quality public education should be free and guaranteed to all children, without discrimination regardless of their residence status; calls on the european and national authorities to promote gender equality in educational institutions by all possible means and to make gender education a key element of school curricula; the european and national authorities must also ensure that educational material does not contain discriminatory content. member states are required to provide the active support necessary to ensure that migrant women and their families can be taught the language of their host country in free public education services at local level. member states are invited to develop specific programmes to ensure that roma girls and young women continue their primary, secondary and tertiary education. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ my vote on the report on the empowerment of girls through education in the eu is in favour because 30 million girls of primary school age are still excluded from the education system worldwide. this is unfortunately also the case in europe, where budget cuts in education, largely due to austerity policies, are jeopardizing free, high-quality public education and thus contributing to greater inequalities. in the eu, the unemployment rate is mainly a disadvantage for women. it is necessary for each member state to work to ensure the best possible access to education and training for girls and women. education and training are an important european value and a fundamental human right for all women.
in writing. ‒ this report addresses the issue of empowering girls through education, with the aim of giving greater value to the educational pathway through school and university, for the real empowerment of women in society and the world of work. i voted in favour of this text because it highlights the need for greater measures to ensure respect for fundamental rights and freedoms and equal rights and opportunities for women and men. the report also aims to remove the obstacles which still stand in the way of effective equality between women and men by promoting the development of self-esteem and professional assertiveness in order to encourage girls and women to be independent and to make informed decisions.
in writing. ‒ what we say about the least developed countries is also true in the eu, namely that education can be an important tool for empowerment, especially for women, at the family, cultural, professional and political levels, as well as for promoting respect, equality and social progress. this is another reason why it is essential to ensure, through increased investment, a quality public education, free of social discrimination and regardless of residence status, starting from the preschool system, nursery schools and day-care centres, up to the higher levels of education. and at all levels, we need to counter the negative impact that gender-based stereotypes and expectations - promoted by the media, and sometimes in schools themselves - can have on identity building, self-image, health, learning, intellectual development and social inclusion. the resolution is moving in the right direction and also calls for specific measures, such as teaching migrant women and their families the language of the host country through free public education services; programmes to encourage roma girls to continue their studies; the commission has also proposed that the european social fund should be used to provide financial support for the development of the social economy. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i believe that the report still contains some problematic issues which have not been resolved and the amendments proposed by my political group have not been adopted. so while i agree with the general line taken by mr rodrigues on women's emancipation, i do not agree with some points. i also disagree with the powers given to the member states and the fact that the principle of subsidiarity is not respected. while i disagree on these points, i think empowering girls through education is a very important issue that needs to be looked at very carefully to combat the gender gap starting in schools and to allow for equality and the full realization of every woman. this requires measures to ensure that all girls are educated, including in an environment that promotes gender equality and respect.
in writing. ‒ education is a necessary tool and a primary resource for reducing gender inequality and discrimination and promoting women's empowerment at social, cultural and professional levels. equal education and training for young people is also a european value of fundamental importance in order to encourage the economic prospects of the union, and i therefore believe that initiatives should be developed to increase the motivation and participation of women also in the sectors of work traditionally dominated by a strong male presence, such as the scientific, engineering, technological, rural and craft sectors. equality is a concept that must be taught at all levels of education, thereby helping to abandon gender stereotypes and to affirm the fundamental right to respect for the individual, whether male or female. in this regard, i stress the importance for the eu states of adopting and ratifying the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, a legally binding international instrument which creates a comprehensive legal framework to protect women against all forms of violence. i voted in favour of the measure because i believe that it is appropriate to raise awareness among the citizens of the european union of the need for greater respect for and full inclusion of women in the social and economic fabric.
in writing. ‒ the title of the report is misleading: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. i condemn this shameful practice once again.
in writing. ‒ parliament's vote is the second time in the same plenary session that it has violated the principle of subsidiarity. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. in view of the measures which are more reminiscent of the chinese cultural revolution than of our principles of democracy and freedom, we could not but vote no to this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's own-initiative report on the empowerment of girls through eu education because it is based on the essential premise that the education of girls and young women is a fundamental human right and an essential european value. a heated debate between the different souls of civil society preceded the vote but, while respecting the diversity of thought, i felt it necessary to express my strong support for the resolution. i believe that the transformation of society also involves the independence and cultural and professional self-determination of women, helping to develop a common sense of respect and responsibility. i am firmly convinced that school, education and learning are a unique tool to enable women to participate in the socioeconomic development of the community and to combat violence, bullying and discrimination. i therefore call for a proactive approach to ensure that school curricula focus on civic, relational and gender education. i share the call for member states to become promoters of universal, inclusive and free education policies, accompanied by ambitious investment in public education and training that eliminate gender discrimination, combat early school leaving for girls and guide them into the world of work.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report as a whole, although i did not agree with some of the parts which were outside the main subject. it highlights that despite significant progress in access to education, gender gaps still exist. training is an important tool to challenge inequalities and a driving force for the economy and i believe it should be guaranteed at all levels of the education system.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the resolution by my colleague on the empowerment of girls through education in the european union, as the report highlights issues of exclusive competence of each individual member state of the european union.
in writing. ‒ it is absolutely right to promote the empowerment of girls in the european union through proper education. it is a moral imperative, even before it is a legal one, to combat violence against women by all means and to eradicate gender stereotypes. despite these deep convictions, i voted against the rodrigues report. i believe that these objectives of civilization can be achieved without implementing the demands of this resolution: the commission has also proposed that the member states adopt a new policy on the promotion of gender equality in education, and that the commission should be able to adopt a new policy on the promotion of gender equality in education. the empowerment of girls in the eu, who today make up 60% of all university graduates, is not achieved by setting up new 'independent' monitoring bodies to assess the work of teachers following the adoption of the policies set out in this text, but by education against stereotypes that starts first of all from families, as well as by providing concrete support services to these, such as day care and after-school care, to ensure that women in the union can reconcile family and professional life peacefully.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this resolution which focuses our attention on a key issue in the fight against gender inequalities: education. in many respects, it is at this level that we must act as a matter of priority to change the current situation of inequality in a lasting way, with a medium- to long-term perspective for future generations. the text we voted on deals with two important aspects: the aim of the project is to develop a comprehensive approach to gender issues in education and training. this translates into an education in respect for others and a particular attention to the fact that educational materials and programmes do not support, reinforce or simply "transmit" gender stereotypes typical of our society. on the other hand, particular attention is paid to the introduction of young girls to science (the so-called stem) subjects, which is the necessary background for the choice of vocational paths traditionally considered male, such as engineering and ict-related professions. we believe that action by the european union and the member states on this issue is urgently needed and we hope that this will be included in the new gender action plan announced by the european commission last year.
in writing. ‒ the report on the empowerment of girls through education in the european union is certainly an important step towards empowerment to combat gender inequalities, towards the integration of equality into the social environment at all levels and in all aspects of the education system. i believe that teaching respect in schools is essential to improve the situation of women, as violence against women is still the main obstacle to equality between men and women. i do not think it is necessary to include themes based on sexual orientation and gender identity in the school curriculum. instead, support desks should be set up in school institutions. the vote on the report is therefore against.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the european parliament resolution on the empowerment of girls through education in the eu. firstly, i believe that education is an important tool to help women to participate fully in social and economic development; lifelong learning measures are considered essential to provide women with skills and to enable them to enter the labour market or to improve their employment, income and working conditions. in addition, i believe that particular attention should be paid to gender equality in the content of school curricula and school planning, as well as to the need to assess the role of women in the curricula of different subjects, emphasising their role in the subjects taught. finally, i strongly believe in the transformative potential of education in supporting the cause of gender equality. acknowledge that formal and informal education programmes need to address and combat gender-based violence, gender discrimination, harassment, homophobia in all its forms, including forms of cyberbullying or online harassment; education on gender equality and against gender-based violence depends on safe and violence-free school environments.
in writing. ‒ as i have said on other occasions, i reiterate today with my vote in favour of the importance of gender equality education and above all the fundamental role that schools and all institutions have to play in combating any gender inequality.
in writing. ‒ the rodrigues report highlights that school education must be seen as a tool to challenge inequalities between girls and boys and all gender stereotypes. the report calls for gender equality to be applied at all levels of the education system. the resolution would like to impose on all eu member states the introduction of gender education to eliminate gender stereotypes, on the basis of considerations that appear to be misleading and contradicted by the facts. i believe that in these kinds of matters, which are so sensitive to a large part of european public opinion, parliament should not go beyond common sense by supporting positions which could be misunderstood and exploited by those who wish to use the school to win acceptance of controversial personal convictions. that is why i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal put forward by mr rodrigues on the empowerment of girls through education in the european union. the rapporteur argues that there are strong gender differences in access to education in europe and that gender stereotypes prevail.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because it deals with the issue of empowering girls through education, with the aim of giving greater value to the educational pathway through school and university, for the real affirmation of women in society and in the world of work. the text reiterates the need for greater measures to ensure respect for fundamental rights and freedoms and equal rights and opportunities for women and men. it also promotes the development of self-esteem and professional affirmation in order to encourage girls and women to be independent and to make informed decisions. the principle of the importance of education as a tool to save women from multiple forms of domestic and non-domestic violence is also an established one. it also calls for equal access to education irrespective of age, gender, socioeconomic status, cultural background or religion, and for the promotion of higher quality education that provides equal opportunities for all at all levels of education.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the schwab report at all, for a large part of the text the analytical positions on the implementation of the rules of the union's single market in norway, iceland and liechtenstein are balanced and shareable, but i do not agree and cannot accept the striking references to switzerland due to last year's referendum against mass immigration and the subsequent decisions of the swiss federal council. the swiss citizens have exercised their sacrosanct democratic rights, they have voted and they have spoken on the subject of immigration, and this has nothing to do with the internal market and the free movement of goods. once again we are faced with an act of unlawful interference by the eu against the will of the people.
in writing. ‒ i am firmly opposed to the report by the committee on the internal market. for the most part, the statements on the implementation of the eu single market rules in the eea countries (iceland, liechtenstein and norway) are quite consistent. what i cannot accept, however, are the very critical references to switzerland because of the 2014 referendum against mass immigration and the subsequent decisions of the swiss federal council. legitimate, albeit just, decisions taken by the swiss people and the swiss government have nothing to do with the internal market of the union in the movement of goods. the schwab report is undoubtedly an illegal interference in the choices of the swiss people.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the agreement between the european economic area (eea) and switzerland, which is a valuable incentive for economic growth and an optimal instrument for extending the single market to third countries and ensuring the soundness of the single market also in the long term. in may 2014, new negotiations were launched to outline an institutional framework essential for concluding further agreements on switzerland's participation in the internal market, although some issues remain, such as the recent swiss restriction on the free movement of persons or obstacles to cross-border professional mobility, which can create a strong imbalance and significantly undermine the benefits of the agreements for eu member states. as the report points out, our relations with switzerland must therefore be further developed to mutual advantage and to the benefit of the many common points already in existence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european economic area - switzerland: obstacles to the full implementation of the internal market because a well-functioning single market, based on a social market economy, is necessary to stimulate our growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal under consideration on the obstacles to the full implementation of the internal market in the eea-switzerland countries. in particular, while noting the outcome of the february 2014 referendum against 'mass immigration' and the decisions taken by the swiss federal council, the proposal notes that these decisions are contrary to the obligations under the agreement on the free movement of persons and therefore calls on switzerland to respect those obligations; deplores the unilateral accompanying measures and calls on the confederation to remove obstacles to cross-border professional mobility in order to intensify the internal market.
in writing. ‒ switzerland's choice to remain outside the eu is legitimate, even if i do not agree with it. however, such a small country, although strong in some specific areas, cannot help but share some policies with the surrounding giants: i am referring in particular to the internal market and free movement. that said, i believe that the eu must monitor and enforce the respect of the four freedoms, in particular the freedom of movement of workers, so that all parties benefit from the benefits of the agreements. i am referring, if it is not clear, to italian crossborder workers who are subject to unacceptable harassment and discrimination, and against whom we should fight with special information campaigns on behalf of the confederation. i voted in favour of the general structure of the report and the appropriate emphasis on this aspect, and i congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work he has done.
in writing. ‒ this is a very important own-initiative report which i supported by voting in favour of it. the european union has a free trade association (efta) with some non-eu countries, such as iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland, including the economic free trade area (efta) agreement. however, there is a serious shortfall in the transposition of european legislation on the single market by these states. the backlog of legal acts awaiting incorporation is still too high and efforts must be made to ensure that they are transposed in a timely manner in compliance with the agreements, with due regard for reciprocity and fairness. i also share the disappointment at the outcome of the popular initiative against mass immigration in switzerland on 9 february 2014 and the decisions taken by the federal council on a draft implementing law and new accompanying measures. it is essential to respect european law and to remove immediately the obstacles to cross-border professional mobility in order to intensify the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr schwab, which provides a significant overview of the state of implementation of single market legislation between the countries of the european economic area (eea) and the swiss confederation. the eea agreement, if properly applied, can make a major contribution to the eu's economic growth and i hope that non-eu countries will also transpose and effectively implement single market legislation. the report also deals in a balanced way with the state of bilateral relations with the swiss confederation, which are now based only on a number of bilateral agreements. i hope that switzerland will be able to fully respect the commitments it has made to the eu in these agreements, in particular on the free movement of persons (the ftap agreement), and that it will review the provisions restricting the free movement of workers and the mobility of students. more recently, two regulations adopted by the canton of ticino have affected italian crossborder workers. i believe that these are clearly discriminatory measures against european citizens, in clear breach of the provisions of the ftaa. the european union will not accept any restrictions on the freedom of establishment and the free movement of persons, which is the founding principle of the single market.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal. the eea agreement is a key driver of economic growth and the broadest overall instrument for extending the single market to third countries. i fully share the principles of this act, as they aim to defend the integrity of the single market and to ensure reciprocity of trade. the restrictions on the free movement of persons imposed following a referendum in switzerland risk creating an imbalance and undermining the benefits of the agreements for eu member states. the commission is therefore calling for the existing agreements to be respected, especially the agreement on the free movement of persons.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the motion for a resolution by my colleague on the eea-switzerland: obstacles to the full implementation of the internal market. i consider this proposal a valuable instrument for extending and strengthening further agreements on switzerland's participation in the internal market. the eea agreement, if properly implemented, can make a major contribution to the eu's economic growth.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the swiss confederation continuing to pursue policies and actions aimed at the complete elimination of obstacles to the full implementation of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ the question of so-called 'frontier workers' concerns hundreds of thousands of european citizens, many of whom are italian nationals. i believe that the union should use all the instruments at its disposal to bring order to relations between the european economic area (eea) and the swiss confederation. the draft report aims to give a global overview of the current issues concerning the implementation of the internal market between the eea countries and switzerland, highlighting the positive effects that a fully implemented and functioning internal market would have on the prosperity and growth of all these countries, and on the relations between them. two of the main points of the report are: the negotiation of an institutional agreement with switzerland and the consequences of the swiss referendum of 2014 (so-called 'against mass immigration'), as well as the subsequent decisions by the swiss government regarding the agreement on the free movement of persons. i have supported the rapporteur's proposal by a favourable vote in the house.
in writing. ‒ i agree with mr schwab's proposal on the implementation of the internal market in the eea-switzerland countries, which highlights how the positive effects of an efficient internal market can ensure internal growth in the countries themselves and enhance relations between the states. i think it is important that switzerland respects the agreements it has made with the european union. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ this resolution does not propose effective and realistic remedies to the mass immigration into europe, the consequences of which are borne by our citizens, the european union has been turning the other cheek for too long and now continues to propose solutions that are completely ineffective and overdue. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i support the parliament's report on the european commission's new proposals on immigration and the revision of refugee policies. the latest proposals extend the emergency relocation plan for asylum seekers to 160,000 people. finally, there is open and official discussion of a permanent mechanism that goes beyond the current emergency and changes the dublin rules. we must move as quickly as possible from the current system of full burden sharing for the first countries of arrival to a system of fair and compulsory sharing. it will be important that the legislative proposals announced by the commission start their work soon. in the resolution we reiterate that free movement in the schengen area is one of the union's main achievements and as such must be protected. the resolution also stresses the importance of ensuring a more effective management of the external borders. the efforts made in recent weeks by many european citizens to help manage the emergency are a positive sign, the image of a europe that does not want to lose its values and its raison d'être. responsibility and solidarity remain our keywords.
in writing. - i vote against it. this resolution is the result of many declarations of intent. the basic logic of managing the migration phenomenon must be rejected.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on migration and refugees in europe, because the very founding principles of the european union and its identity are at stake in these issues. the humanitarian disaster has been raging for months, from the shores of lampedusa to the train station in budapest, from the calais railway lines to the macedonian railway barriers. it is therefore time for our europe to take a step backwards, even if it is by self-criticism of the inertia of the past few months. we must now build a new common policy based on a sense of responsibility, solidarity and mutual respect. we must recover a european ideal, which does not mean welcoming everyone indiscriminately, which would be an impossible task, but it means trying to save those who are fleeing from conflicts and war zones, which is a duty for us europeans. the leaders of the eu and its member states have an obligation to take a clear stand for respect for human dignity and the rights of asylum seekers, demonstrating that the union is not only based on economic directives and the internal market but also and above all on solidarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it contains many proposals on which the m5s europe delegation agrees. the main ones are: safe and legal pathways for refugees to access the european asylum system such as humanitarian corridors, issuing visas on humanitarian grounds, improving family reunification; solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility between member states and a permanent mechanism for redistributing asylum seeker quotas in all european countries.
in writing. ‒ the failure of european asylum and immigration policy is evident in the face of humanitarian emergencies, announced tragedies, and the continuing increase in flows (alarming the 75% increase in asylum applications from minors this year). the resolution again calls for the dublin regulation to be overtaken by a permanent and binding system for the distribution of asylum seekers among all states, according to criteria which favour integration and take account of the specific needs and circumstances of asylum seekers. it is essential to respect the principles of non-refoulement and individual assessment of applications, regardless of their origin (geneva convention): the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, in which it called on the eu to take action to combat the situation in the former yugoslavia. the distinction between traffickers/exploiters and those who help migrants for humanitarian reasons is also important; the european union must also take action to combat the dangerous xenophobic tendencies that some governments and parties are fomenting. and, of course, action on the causes of migration, and a european policy - humane, realistic, non-discriminatory - also for so-called economic migrants. the resolution, although not explicit on the latter point, is moving in the right direction and calls on the commission and governments to act. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on migration and refugees in europe. according to unhcr data, around 3,000 people died or went missing in 2015 trying to reach europe, and that many of those seeking asylum are from syria, afghanistan, eritrea and iraq. the resolution welcomes the solidarity shown by many european citizens, welcomes the commission's initiatives on relocation and resettlement and calls on it to amend the current dublin regulation, urges the eu, the member states and the international community to strengthen their role in conflict resolution and, in particular, to contribute to the search for sustainable political solutions in conflict-affected regions such as iraq, syria, libya and the middle east, and calls on the commission and the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy (vp/hr) to convene an international conference on the refugee crisis with a view to developing a common and comprehensive humanitarian aid strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is important to take concrete action in support of italy, greece and hungary. i also think it is appropriate to emphasize that the refugee problem should not be a burden on the states directly concerned alone, but that the eu should establish a solid and massive act of cooperation, search and rescue, which is additional to border surveillance and capable of dealing with the humanitarian tragedy that is taking place in the mediterranean. in the light of the dramatic impact of previous military interventions on the increase in refugees, i believe that the eu and its member states should be more cautious about participating in conflicts in third countries or providing arms and support to their actors.
in writing. ‒ the migration and refugee crisis that has hit the european union in recent months is a long-term phenomenon that requires immediate concrete responses and actions, but also coordinated long-term strategies. the joint resolution, for which i voted with conviction, is moving in the desired direction, a direction in which the european union will finally play an active role at home and at the forefront of the international scene, and which will be able to define a holistic approach to asylum and migration. in particular, i welcome the european commission's awareness and concrete efforts to establish a permanent mechanism for the relocation of asylum seekers which is fairer and more supportive. this is a measure which the italian government had strongly advocated at the european council last july. the emergency of these days has finally made it clear that only a coordinated european response, including a radical review of the dublin convention, will be able to guarantee human standards and a hope for the future for the hundreds of thousands of men, women and children fleeing conflict and political instability, on the basis of one of the eu's core values: solidarity is the key.
in writing. ‒ another mockery of the eu: you don't have a long-term plan, and the effects are obvious. you are creating, perhaps deliberately, this untenable situation. you don't take responsibility for wars you've caused.
in writing. ‒ with the compulsory quota mechanism, we are finally moving towards a truly solidarity-based europe. the commission's proposal largely echoes what we have been proposing for some time and what the epp put in writing to the bureau in milan in may, and we are very pleased about that. it is now up to the council to show that it is up to the task and to show the same solidarity. in addition, we must be clear and firm in the distinction between refugees and economic migrants, and by accepting only those who actually qualify as refugees, we cannot afford to create false illusions that will only fuel further tragedies. we also call for an intensification of foreign policy action to put an end to the refugee problem at its root, allowing these families not to have to flee and to be able to live in peace in their own country.
in writing. president juncker presented very firm and concrete lines of action to respond to the refugee emergency yesterday in the chamber. finally, europe is moving forward with proposals of great foresight and humanity, inspired by the values of solidarity and unity among the peoples of europe. i voted with conviction for the resolution tabled today, which encourages the european commission to continue its commitment to reforming european asylum and immigration policies, in particular by helping member states which, like italy, are at the forefront of welcoming migrants, by permanently and compulsorily implementing a system of relocating refugees.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on migration and refugees in europe as the number of people seeking help continues to be a concern. the instability that is affecting the eu is unprecedented, and urgent and targeted action is needed to put an end to the very high number of deaths and missing persons resulting from long journeys and inhumane trafficking. i believe that the dublin regulation should be revised and improved in the parts that have been overtaken by events, highlighting the importance of proper relocation, including family reunification, especially of unaccompanied minors, children who arrive without adults or parents, who are lost and exploited or who are involved in illegal organ harvesting and sale. the commission is also proposing a permanent and binding mechanism for the distribution of asylum seekers to all member states, in line with the eu's principle of non-refoulement. migration is a complex phenomenon, and we need to understand the causes, such as poverty, inequality, bad governance and armed conflict. the eu must therefore, by paying greater attention, including by establishing criminal sanctions against trafficking and human trafficking, comply with the principles of solidarity and with greater cooperation, ensuring protection.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote, the house has once again demonstrated unity of vision and intent in dealing with the migration phenomenon. and a deep closeness to the people we represent who have mobilized in these last weeks in unprecedented solidarity activities. we continue to oppose any attempt to build fences and to operate to secure the external borders and prevent the regular entry of refugees and migrants. the free movement of persons within the schengen area is an indispensable principle for us. we have welcomed the commission's move towards a permanent and binding mechanism for the distribution of asylum seekers within the european territory and, above all, we have called for safe and legal channels of entry. we want the opening of humanitarian corridors and humanitarian visas, but also the strengthening of existing mechanisms, such as family reunification or the use of humanitarian visas. it is time for the council to take up its responsibilities and listen to the voice of democracy.
in writing. ‒ as the statistics recorded during the summer period show, the number of asylum seekers in europe increased by 75%. this situation, exacerbated by the disadvantages it entails, requires the member states to lay the foundations for concrete joint action which is sufficiently far-sighted and consistent. it is for these reasons that i have decided to support the text of this resolution, which calls for joint action based on the principle of solidarity between the member states.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this motion for a resolution, which returns to the refugee crisis after parliament's resolution in april and the commission's proposal for an agenda on immigration in may. we therefore endorse the actions presented by president juncker in his state of the union address, and call on the commission to monitor and, if necessary, take action on the actual implementation by the member states of the measures it has envisaged. we also call for further efforts to amend the dublin regulation and, in addition to the measures for managing reception in this 'emergency' phase, for a longer-term strategy to be prepared, including a strengthening of the european union's role in conflict resolution and, in particular, to contribute to the search for sustainable political solutions in conflict-affected regions such as iraq, syria, libya and the middle east.
in writing. ‒ i would like to address president juncker, while appreciating his intentions and responses to the enormous problem facing the member states of the european union, with regard to the constant influx of migrants, i must point out that so far italy has dealt with this emergency on its own, often making up for european shortcomings and support with its own structures. i believe that although europe is finally talking about solidarity, there are a number of problems in italy, particularly with regard to the application of dublin iii. i therefore believe that the question of our borders and the dublin treaty must be tackled in a united way as a matter of urgency, by amending rules which are no longer valid in the face of this humanitarian tragedy. i expect there to be constant pressure to convince all member states to have one voice and one action. i also believe that the unilateral initiative of the french and british air raids against syria is harmful and will further increase the flow of migrants towards our coasts and european borders. unity among member states in responding to this emergency is essential to create stability and credibility in our institutions.
in writing. ‒ four years after the start of the conflict in syria, more than 12 million people are displaced, 4 million of them outside the country. europe has mainly dealt with the emergency aspect, through rescue operations at sea, but has not addressed the needs of the population in conflict zones. the creation of humanitarian channels for asylum applications in the countries of origin and transit of migration flows is the only real alternative to illegal travel. the rejection of people arriving at our borders is a violation of the 1951 convention relating to the status of refugees. the 2001 temporary protection directive must be implemented, but it must not affect the long-term solutions of a permanent and binding relocation mechanism. it also seems inevitable to amend the dublin regulation, which imposes excessive and disproportionate efforts on some countries. a europe that rejects syrians strengthens the propaganda of the islamic state and favours the interests of traffickers. we are taking historic responsibility for an inadequate european response to the worst humanitarian crisis in 50 years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal on migration and refugees in europe. member states must take action to take effective emergency measures, but also for the long term. each state must assume its own responsibilities and guarantee the principles of solidarity. to solve these problems, it is necessary to establish a balanced distribution of immigrants, according to mandatory quotas to be allocated to each country. the report calls on the commission to make changes to the existing 'right to asylum', including the overhaul of the dublin regulation, which requires asylum seekers to stay in the country where they have been granted status.
in writing. ‒ by voting for this resolution, we have sent a strong signal to our national governments. we cannot remain passive in the face of the tragedy that is engulfing europe and we must act immediately to prevent further loss of life. the dublin regulation must be overcome and replaced by a common european policy on asylum based on solidarity. with this text we have supported a permanent mechanism for the redistribution of refugees which will prevent europe from being in the shameful situation of the last six months. it is essential to continue working to ensure that migrants are treated with the dignity and respect due to all european countries and to oblige member states to properly apply existing legislation on humanitarian visas.
in writing. ‒ while the resolution is largely acceptable, especially in the passages that underline how achieving peace in the middle east remains a key priority for the international community and the destabilising role for the region due to both the violent crisis in syria and the increase in radicalism and the spread of terrorism in the middle east, there are some passages that i found unclear and contradictory, which is why i abstained.
in writing. - i vote against it. the resolution is skewed in favour of palestine.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the motion for a resolution on the role of the european union in the middle east peace process because the resolution of the arab-israeli conflict is a fundamental interest of the european union, but unfortunately it is no longer the only one. the islamic state aspires to play its own role in the middle east and the arab-israeli conflict will not remain immune to this threat. the map of the middle east is changing, in this area of the world an unprecedented war is being fought. despite this very serious situation, the european union must continue to play its part by making its presence in the region even more felt and by working with its partners to face the new threats decisively and to accelerate the peace process. the efforts made by high representative federica mogherini in this direction will be crucial in identifying further points of mediation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which reaffirms that achieving peace in the middle east is a key priority for the international community, reiterates support for the two-state solution based on the 1967 borders and reaffirms the eu's willingness to facilitate the resolution of the conflict. of particular importance to the 5-star delegation is the paragraph condemning the continued expansion of israeli settlements, which in doing so violate international humanitarian law, fuel palestinian resentment and undermine the viability and prospects of a two-state solution. paragraph 14 is particularly important from the point of view of transparency, which calls on the eeas and the commission to report to parliament on the destruction and damage of eu-funded structures and projects in the occupied palestinian territories. the commission has also provided information on the activities of the 'federal council of the european union' in the field of the fight against terrorism. the work of unrwa is praised, and concern is expressed at the funding crisis, calling for more eu financial support for unrwa.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the eu's role in the middle east peace process. achieving peace in the middle east remains a key priority for the international community. the european union has repeatedly confirmed its commitment to the two-state solution based on the 1967 borders, which envisages jerusalem as the capital of both states and the coexistence of the state of israel and a state of palestine. in the resolution, parliament expressed concern at the stalemate in the peace process, urged the vice-president/high representative and the eu special representative to make better use of the eu and member states' political relations and institutional competences, which are based on europe's geographical proximity, historical links and intensive economic exchanges with the middle east region, expressed concern at the recent developments in the west bank and reiterated its call for an end to the blockade of the gaza strip and for the urgent reconstruction and recovery of the area following the war in summer 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is an additional opportunity to give momentum to peace, considering the wider context of the israeli-palestinian conflict, the violent crisis in syria and the rise of radicalism through the spread of terrorism throughout the middle east. i am convinced that this process is also necessary in view of the fact that israel is one of the main trading partners and the largest donor of aid to the palestinians. i would stress that a lasting solution to the conflict can only be achieved in a broader context and with the involvement of all the actors in the area, together with the support of the international community. i also welcome the positive role of the eu, which proposes a peaceful and constructive solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict, in line with the eu's own interests in security, stability and prosperity in the middle east.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the role of the european union in the middle east peace process because i am convinced that peace and stability in this region are a fundamental prerequisite for the security of the international community. the middle east is today one of the hottest regions in the world and presents multiple challenges that require urgent and unwavering action. the european union has a duty to use its external action to pacify a region facing the simultaneous advance of the islamic state, the war in syria, the israeli-palestinian conflict and religious radicalisation. i call on the vice-president - high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini, to intensify diplomatic efforts to reach a lasting solution, always bearing in mind the great cultural, political and geographical ties which bind the european union to the middle east. i warmly hope that peace negotiations between the israeli and palestinian authorities will resume and i urge both sides to tone down the fighting and not to further fuel hatred and resentment among the people who have certainly paid the highest price in this conflict.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal. achieving peace in the middle east remains a key priority for the international community and an indispensable element for regional security and stability. the eu is committed to providing the necessary support and is committed to pursuing a peaceful and constructive settlement of the israeli-palestinian conflict and the wider arab-israeli conflict. it called for the early resumption of credible peace efforts and called on israelis and palestinians to avoid actions which could jeopardize the outcome of the negotiations and threaten the viability of a solution based on the coexistence of two states.
in writing. – the eu has been a broker in the mepp and pushing for the two state solution to solve that conflict. a two state solution for the conflict in the middle east means two states for two peoples. the italian epp delegation has requested the group support for an amendment supporting two states for two solutions. unfortunately, this amendment was refused in the plenary. an honest broker must be coherent with its own policy, therefore it must be impartial and make the same request for both parties. as this was not achieved, the epp delegation abstained to support the resolution and i followed my delegation. the current trend regarding the middle east peace process is not in the interest of the european union, especially taking in consideration the challenges of the southern neighbourhood countries and the fact that israel is the only stable democracy in the region. the role of the european union in the mepp is too important to avoid these small details and it is not in the interest of the eu, or the epp group, to challenge political relations in the sake a common compromise.
in writing. ‒ we support this resolution because it is necessary, given that the initiative of us secretary of state kerry in 2013-2014 has resulted in another deadlock in the middle east peace process. moreover, it is becoming increasingly clear, on the one hand, how the conflict between israel and palestine has repercussions throughout the region, and, on the other, how, despite the ambition to play an active role, the eu still lacks a coherent and systematic vision of the role it can play in the peace process. the resolution is useful in reiterating some of the ideas already expressed by this parliament, which strongly supports the two-state solution and condemns israel's settlement policy and blockade of gaza, as well as the rocket fire by palestinian militias. finally, in line with the resolution, we support the efforts of the un security council to resume peace negotiations, and we call on the eu to play a proactive role in this process, starting with recognising and encouraging dialogue between the two peoples through civil society organisations, human rights organisations, academics, opinion leaders and the arts in general.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that the european union's role is relevant and fundamental to the completion of the middle east peace process. the member states will have to take constant action to encourage the contracting parties to enter into a dialogue which will be stable over time and based on the principle of tolerance and mutual respect.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the role of the european union in the middle east peace process because, while fully supporting the role of the un security council, i believe that the european union can play an important role in breaking the impasse in the peace process. the pursuit of the two-state solution must be a top priority for the european union and the entire international community. i also believe that the nuclear agreement in iran can offer a unique moment for the peace process, because the solution to this conflict can only be achieved in a regional context and with the active involvement of all those states which play a key role in the middle east.
in writing. ‒ some passages in this resolution are not very agreeable and could be seen as critical, which is why i voted against.
in writing. - i abstained.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in belarus. unfortunately, the republic of belarus remains in every respect an authoritarian regime despite the calls of the international community. i understand that this country unexpectedly took a position closer to europe during the ukraine crisis by refusing to follow moscow in imposing an embargo on european products, even condemning the annexation of crimea. but that 's not enough . the belarusian parliament remains the only parliament in europe that has not had an opposition for 20 years. the last elections, held in 2010, were described by the osce as "neither free nor fair". the political prisoners are also a cause of the harshest international criticism. in short, in my view, although attempts at dialogue should be facilitated, at least to alleviate the difficult political situation and to lighten the burden on the citizens, belarus remains an authoritarian regime and human rights violations pose difficult problems for the eu, which is a community of values based on respect for democratic principles, civil liberties and human rights.
in writing. ‒ despite the recent release of six political prisoners, the human rights situation in belarus remains worrying and dramatic. freedom of expression for the independent media continues to be in great difficulty and intimidation continues, so that we are very likely to witness yet another sham electoral process. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution which supports respect for human rights in belarus and condemns the dictatorship.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the situation in belarus. the resolution stresses that belarus is the only european state to apply the death penalty and that the human rights situation remains critical. it welcomed the release of some political opponents by the lukashenko government and called on the belarusian government to ensure that the elections in october were free. the eu also welcomes the fact that the eu has been able to take action to help the victims of the violence in the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because, despite the intensification of contacts between the european union, the united states and belarus itself, human rights violations continue to occur in the country, including incidents of intimidation against human rights defenders themselves, as well as police raids on the premises of organisations working in this field. i am convinced that one of the main results of cooperation between belarus and the european union was the release of the six political prisoners, including the former presidential candidates, whose existence had been denied for years. the new law, which has been in force since 2015, regulating all media, also significantly improves the proper sharing of information. finally, i believe that the creation of a national institution for human rights, freedom of expression, assembly and association, as well as for the rights of minors, against the death penalty, torture and ill-treatment, is a further step towards respect for democratic principles, in accordance with the universal declaration of human rights.
in writing. ‒ while welcoming the release of the six political prisoners by belarus, i decided to support the european parliament's resolution calling on the belarusian authorities to respect international standards for democratic elections scheduled for 11 october and to cooperate with the osce; the european parliament deplores the fact that the death penalty is still in force in the country and encourages greater respect for human rights, the rule of law and democracy.
in writing. ‒ the republic of belarus remains in every respect an authoritarian regime, with all that this entails. the country is governed by presidential decrees and the one in minsk is the only parliament in europe that has not had an opposition for twenty years and every time the president is elected there is violent repression in the streets. the next presidential election will be in november this year and it is hard to imagine a different scenario. the issue of political prisoners remains one of the most harsh international criticisms despite some recent openings, such as an amnesty granted in july 2014. the situation in the media sector has also worsened considerably, with the system continuing to create bureaucratic obstacles to control. there is no freedom of association in belarus, and the country remains the only european country with the death penalty: two to nine people sentenced a year. the belarusian government should take concrete steps to improve humanitarian rights and end the repression of peaceful dissidents; the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and consultation services, and for the establishment of a european network of information and consultation services.
in writing. ‒ the ambitious objectives set out in the eu's europe 2020 strategy must continue to guide the work of the coming years. the economic and financial crisis which has hit the eu in recent years and led to a departure from these objectives cannot be an alibi. the crisis has prompted a reassessment of the socioeconomic model so that future growth is not only sustainable but also based on the principles of economic, social and territorial cohesion that inspire the union. in the important challenges facing the eu such as economic and financial sustainability, social well-being and above all job creation, with particular attention to the most vulnerable groups (young people, women, the elderly, the disabled), it is also necessary to take into account the ongoing processes of population ageing and desertification of rural areas. the social economy therefore has a key role to play: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on social inclusion and its impact on employment and social inclusion. we must also support them, since they are strongly linked to local and regional realities and provide a solution to the most diverse local needs of citizens (health, social welfare, environment).
in writing. - i vote for it. the report emphasizes the role of the social and solidarity economy in the fight against unemployment.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on social entrepreneurship and social innovation in the fight against unemployment. there are still many important challenges facing europe, both in the short term, such as economic and financial sustainability, social welfare and above all job creation, and in the longer term, such as population ageing or the desertification of rural areas, which are already beginning to show their negative effects. nor should we forget all the actions to support the most vulnerable groups, such as young people, women and the elderly, the longterm unemployed, the disabled, immigrants or nomadic communities. the social economy plays a key role in this, and it is precisely these types of enterprises that have proven to be more resilient to changing economic situations, and have been able to offer innovative solutions to different problems. to this end, it is essential to pay particular attention to education and training, as it will be essential to instill in young people a strong spirit of innovation and entrepreneurship from their early adolescence.
in writing. ‒ the eu must address important short-term challenges such as economic and financial sustainability, social well-being and, above all, job creation, with particular attention to the most vulnerable groups. while the arguments in this report are important and reasonable, social enterprises in italy do not always operate in a transparent and effective way. that is why i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on social entrepreneurship and social innovation. the economic and financial crisis that has hit europe hard in recent years has put the continent in front of important challenges such as economic and financial sustainability, social welfare and job creation, in particular for the most vulnerable groups. the social economy has an important role to play. social economy enterprises have proven to be more resilient to crises and able to offer innovative solutions for social cohesion and inclusion. the future requires work on a number of fronts: the commission will continue to support the development of the social economy in the union and in the member states and improve the regulatory environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the objectives in strategy 2020 have proven to be able to offer innovative solutions to boost social cohesion and inclusion, but above all to create new jobs during periods of economic stagnation. i believe that entrepreneurship and social innovation are crucial to the further development of our economy and it remains vital to pay attention to this sector at both national and european level. the report also calls on the commission to include a social entrepreneurial economy in the action plans to promote employment and social inclusion, which i believe is essential for the european union.
in writing. ‒ social entrepreneurship and social innovation deserve due attention from the european institutions because a stronger and more effective role can help to improve unemployment and increase economic development. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which sets out the steps to be taken to move in this direction.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report which praises the role of the social and solidarity economy in the fight against the crisis and unemployment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because there are businesses whose main objective is not profit but the common good, led by visionary but also realistic entrepreneurs. it is the social enterprises, so deeply rooted in reality and in the territory that they invest for the good of all rather than just for the owners. in these years of severe crisis, falling investment and distrust in the financial world, social enterprises are important realities to be encouraged and supported to create development, employment, solidarity, social justice and equality. it is important to guarantee access to finance, to grants, to public tenders, so that social enterprises in the third sector can grow and increase, but above all so that the idea and philosophy can be spread that social does not mean poverty, it can and must mean well-being. europe should not only develop multiannual strategies on social inclusion, equality or disability, but also give concrete support to those who bear witness to these principles and work every day to make them a reality.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report on social entrepreneurship and social innovation in the fight against unemployment. action is needed to improve spatial planning, in favour of the economy and social innovation. we must strengthen public services, such as education and information, and improve the quality of life of the population in order to be able to intervene and combat the increasing dominance of poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. ‒ the positive vote on this resolution ideally goes hand in hand with the vote on the resolution on promoting entrepreneurship among young people. the developments of recent years have shown that social entrepreneurship will be one of the pillars of the new labour market in the future. this is a growing and increasingly defined reality to which the european union should devote greater attention in terms of both policy and funding. in a time of crisis and reduced spending capacity by the public, this new sector could provide a sustainable response to the demand for more effective welfare in the face of ever-decreasing economic availability of public funds. the resolution welcomes the commission's work on the new public procurement directive, which includes social clauses and criteria to promote social inclusion and social innovation, but it also highlights the fact that little or no consideration is given to this issue in the strategy for the creation of the digital single market.
in writing. ‒ to overcome the employment crisis, we must focus on all sectors of the real economy that have proven to be more resilient and responsive. social entrepreneurship is certainly one of them. it has not only dealt with disadvantaged sections of the population but has also shown very positive economic performance. social economy enterprises have proven to be more resilient to economic disruption and have been able to offer innovative solutions for social cohesion and inclusion or job creation. social innovation and social entrepreneurship are therefore essential in the development of the european economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr fontagné's proposal on entrepreneurship and social innovation in the fight against unemployment. the social economy plays a central and important role in economic and financial sustainability and is also useful for promoting employment and social welfare. these policies have been able to provide innovative solutions for social cohesion and inclusion in times of crisis, creating new jobs. it is therefore essential to promote and strengthen education and training, to increase funding and to give greater visibility to these activities at european and national level. good information is needed and the development of the social economy in the member states must be promoted by improving the regulatory environment.
in writing. ‒ i do not share the position taken in this report, which does not deal with the facts and wisely avoids analysing the real causes of the economic and labour market crisis not only in italy but in the whole of europe, for which it proposes completely unrealistic solutions, which is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ economic and employment data at european level and in the different regional areas still present a highly heterogeneous picture, with strong critical points, particularly in the area of youth unemployment. with this resolution, which i support, parliament wants to highlight the importance of determined action by both the member states and the commission to implement policies and reforms which will make the european labour market and the professional profiles of our citizens competitive. ambitious reforms, such as those undertaken in italy, are needed to get a situation back on track that has been severely compromised by the crisis. among the highlights of the resolution are: strengthening the links between education and employment, the importance of continuing training, the constant updating of training pathways to keep pace with innovation and digitalisation. at european level, we also encourage the commission to take the initiative to simplify and facilitate labour mobility, thereby increasing opportunities for citizens and the match between labour supply and demand. the commission will continue to support the development of the european vocational training system, in particular by enhancing and developing the rapid recognition of formal qualifications and by harmonising the european framework for the certification of qualifications and competences.
in writing. - i vote against it. compilation of praise for the eu's economic recipes. according to these sorcerer apprentices, an ilva worker left at home could be turned back into an aeronautical engineer, and even sent to poland if there was a shortage.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on creating a competitive eu labour market for the 21st century, focusing on matching skills and qualifications to demand and employment prospects. unemployment, particularly long-term unemployment, is having a negative impact on economic growth and the sustainability of social security systems. in addition, labour market rigidities and the absence of domestic demand and investment are having a negative impact on job creation. at a time when the demand for low-skilled workers is declining and the demand for highly skilled workers is increasing rapidly, action on workers' skills and initial and vocational training is therefore crucial. this is why, as the report points out, the current european skills overview needs to be strengthened in order to more effectively identify skills gaps affecting sectors, occupations and regions and to ensure that information on the evolution of skills requirements is studied to enable public authorities, education bodies and employers to better anticipate future trends.
in writing. ‒ the report by my colleague covers all the main aspects of the issue. the need to facilitate flexibility, understood as the ability to meet demand and supply of labour, is emphasised. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is based on the principle of equal treatment. furthermore, mobility and the further development of eures are encouraged to facilitate it. i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on creating a competitive labour market in the eu. unemployment remains one of the union's main challenges with a rate of 9,9% in december 2014 with significant differences between member states. youth employment reached an average of 21.4% across the union. a competitive labour market requires reforms that increase labour market and personal career flexibility and foster a better match between skills and jobs, including stronger synergies between education systems and enterprises and a flexible approach to working life. the report stresses the importance of worker mobility and calls for greater awareness of jobs at eu level through programmes such as eures and erasmus+. finally, investment is needed in innovation and digitalisation and in training and retraining programmes for the unemployed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, in view of the effects of the crisis which has hit and is still hitting the labour markets, the reforms and amendments put forward by the european union are necessary to revive the european economy. i am convinced that combating unemployment must be one of the main objectives of the european union's policies, especially in view of the youth unemployment which is particularly high in spain at 23.7% and on average does not fall below 9.9%, figures which are very worrying and which could be improved by the measures suggested. moreover, these reforms are necessary to increase the flexibility of both markets and people.
in writing. despite some signs of recovery, the effects of the economic crisis on the labour market continue to be a negative variable that can hamper the creation of new jobs. in particular, unemployment remains one of the eu's main challenges: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. in the european union, there are some 2 million job vacancies that cannot be filled due to skills asymmetry in the labour market and insufficient labour mobility, so ambitious economic policies and reforms are needed to overcome distortions in the eu labour market. i therefore believe that reforms should be formulated to increase the flexibility of the labour market and personal careers, to promote a better match between skills and jobs and to promote stronger synergies between education systems and enterprises. to achieve these objectives, it will be essential to plan concrete investments to support the transition from education to work through vocational mobility programmes, with more integrated partnerships between institutions, enterprises and relevant authorities.
in writing. ‒ the wrong recipes that led to the stagnation of the crisis and the praise of the economic recipes that support the single currency. i'm very happy for you.
in writing. ‒ this report outlines the reforms needed to create a competitive labour market. to facilitate a better match between skills and jobs, these should aim to create a better integration of young people through policies that develop synergies between school-university education and enterprise. add to this the interest in the skilled labour brought by migrants. to achieve this, investment must be made to support job creation and, at the same time, to prevent skills depletion both among the unemployed and among people who are no longer looking for work because they are disillusioned. one positive aspect is that working life is seen as a continuously evolving path, which therefore allows workers to be more flexible and to adapt to changes in the labour market through continuous learning, which enables them to acquire new knowledge and skills. finally, the report stresses the importance of worker mobility and, as a result, encourages language education, the erasmus+ programme and a further development of eures. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ we vote in favour of this report, given that the effects of the economic and financial crisis are still being felt and that, despite some signs of recovery, the labour market is still picking up and job creation is still slow. unemployment must therefore be one of the main challenges facing the european union. unemployment rates of close to 10% and 21% for young people are unacceptable, partly because the differences between the member states are particularly marked. the problem of the difficulty of matching skills demanded and those offered must not obscure the real problems of the labour market: the need to combat precarious work and social inequalities and to invest in human capital in order to prepare workers for the labour market of the future. finally, the institutions will have to promote a systemic approach to employment and mobility, based on the principles of free movement of citizens and workers and the principle of equal pay for equal work, without discrimination on grounds of gender, age or geographical origin.
in writing. ‒ a competitive labour market requires reforms that increase labour market flexibility and foster a better match between personal skills and jobs, including stronger synergies between education and the world of work. the european union must improve its action in favour of vocational training, particularly with regard to young unemployed people and those who have lost their jobs as a result of the effects of globalisation. the world of work is constantly looking for new skills and i believe it is of paramount importance to find the right tools to strengthen the skills of european workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe that to have a competitive labour market, reforms are needed to increase the level of flexibility in work and personal careers. it is also necessary to facilitate the meeting of job skills and jobs. good vocational training and adequate retraining for the unemployed are the fundamental objectives for the development of a competitive and efficient labour market.
in writing. ‒ i believe that in order to achieve a competitive labour market, reforms are needed to better match skills with available jobs, increase personal career flexibility and promote closer cooperation between enterprises and education systems. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report which not only takes stock of the employment gaps in the eu labour market but also recommends promoting entrepreneurship among citizens and encouraging best practice among member states. finally, i believe that we have managed to strike a good balance between national competences and areas where the european union can bring added value in the fight against unemployment.
in writing. ‒ this report underlines that in order to have a competitive labour market, reforms are needed to increase labour market and personal career flexibility and to foster better convergence between skills and jobs, including stronger synergies between education systems and enterprises. the importance of using investment to actively support job creation and prevent skills depletion among the unemployed is highlighted, as is the importance of a flexible approach to working life that allows workers to adapt to change and prepares them for lifelong learning. the need for reforms to encourage people to return to work and not opt for the benefits of social systems and the mobility of workers with a particular sensitivity to jobs at union level are rightly mentioned. for all these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report of the legal affairs committee directly attacks the member states, accusing them of incorrect or uneven application of directives and regulations, but does not take into account the fact that states and regions are in a position to adapt and implement regulatory texts which pose serious practical problems as well as political ones, for example the damage done to our production system by the services directive. the commission does not take account of the continuous encroachments of the law on the prerogatives of member states and regions with legislative powers, and for these reasons i did not support this text in my vote.
in writing. - i vote against it. the text directly accuses the member states of incorrect application of eu rules without taking into account the violations of the rules in the field.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on monitoring the application of european union law today, as the proper implementation and transposition of european union law by the member states is essential to ensure full respect for the right of citizens to good administration, as enshrined in article 41 of the charter of fundamental rights. in this sense, to improve the application of eu law, it is essential to support national parliaments in the transposition of community legislation and to further intensify cooperation between members of the european parliament and the european affairs committees of national and regional parliaments. although there is still a long way to go, particularly in the area of transparency and public access to parliament, council and commission documents, freedom of movement, protection of personal data and environmental protection, the results so far seem very satisfactory and that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted strongly in favour of the resolution, which i helped to draft through the opinion on which i was rapporteur in the committee on constitutional affairs. in particular, this resolution expresses an important new element, which i myself have personally promoted, which relates to the need to set up an autonomous system within parliament so that - in the absence of clear information from the commission and the member states - it can directly monitor the situation of the application of union law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the 30th and 31st annual reports on the monitoring of the application of european union law (2012 and 2013). the report welcomes the reports and notes that in 2012 infringement procedures affected transport, health and consumer protection and the internal market, while in 2013 the most problematic sectors were environment, health protection, internal market and services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i welcome the efforts of the member states to resolve infringement cases without recourse to the court by using special procedures, which has led to a decrease in the number of formal infringement procedures. i am convinced that welcoming the commission's increasing use of implementation plans for new eu legislation addressed to states not only reduces the risks to correct and timely implementation but also prevents transposition problems. i would also stress that one of the commission's objectives is to facilitate dialogue on regulatory adequacy with citizens, member states, businesses and civil society in general in such a way as to ensure that the quality and social aspects of eu legislation are preserved.
in writing. ‒ the transposition and correct application of community law in the member states is a european prerogative aimed at reducing the gap and the slowness in the procedures for the adoption of european legislative acts by national systems. the report highlights the difficulties encountered by the national institutions in transposing community legislation, such as linguistic problems, excessive bureaucracy and a lack of knowledge of community legislation. citizens and businesses must be able to rely on a simpler and more reliable regulatory framework to give them access to information and documentation on the application of european law. i welcome the report on the monitoring and application of community law, with a view to improving its regulation, implementation and uniform implementation. only in this way will citizens and businesses in the member states be able to refer to community acts effectively and in a timely manner. it is the responsibility of the member states and the european commission to improve the transposition of european law into national legal systems in a timely and correct manner.
in writing. ‒ the overall decline in infringement proceedings over the last few years is a positive factor. but more must be done, especially since a hundred of these concern italy. the use of the eu pilot procedure for problem solving has proved useful. nevertheless, the ratio between the number of petitions submitted to this parliament and the number of infringement procedures under way remains proportional. the commission has benefited from complaints, which, as in the case of spain's infringement of the water directive, have led to the opening of infringement proceedings. i would like to emphasize the fundamental role played by active citizens in monitoring the proper application of european law. considering the content of most petitions, it is clear that many citizens feel that they are not being heard adequately by national authorities and institutions. i voted in favour because the rapporteur points the finger at the austerity measures and their effects on the ability of the member states' administrations and judiciaries to take responsibility for implementing community law correctly. they therefore reiterated the need for greater transparency, legal clarity and access to information on the entire pre-infringement procedure, in the context of eu pilot and the annual report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this report, which accuses the member states of incorrect or uneven application but which, for example, does not take account of the continuous encroachments of the law on the prerogatives of member states and regions with legislative powers.
in writing. a good application of community rules is essential to make the action of the european institutions, which are often perceived as being far removed from the daily lives of citizens, practical and effective. that is why i am voting in favour of the report which the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has tabled: european citizens must be able to know in a clear, accessible, transparent and timely manner (including via the internet) whether and which national rules have been adopted to transpose eu law and which national authorities are responsible for their proper implementation.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's main task is also to receive and evaluate the annual reports drawn up by the other institutions. the report presented in plenary welcomes the 30th and 31st annual reports of the commission on the application of european union law. the text presented shows that, on the basis of these reports, the four areas in which member states were subject to infringement procedures concerning transposition during 2012 were transport, health and consumer protection, environmental protection and internal market and services issues. in 2013, the most problematic sectors were the environment, health and consumer protection, the internal market and services, and transport. i voted in favour of this report, as did most of my colleagues.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the thirty-first and thirty-first annual reports of the commission on the application of european union law. the 2012 report underlines that the four areas in which member states were subject to infringement procedures were transport, health and consumer protection, environmental protection and issues related to the internal market in services. in 2013, the most problematic sectors were the environment, health and consumer protection, the internal market, services and transport.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i just wanted to make a very important point about this debate and this vote. but tomorrow, at this same time, the irs is holding another big hearing: we are going to have the president of the juncker commission, and because of the discussions on the greek crisis we have already missed this debate, which is very important for the work of our committee, so i would ask if we could move the vote to 1 p.m. so that we can have the debate with president juncker and not skip it yet, thank you.
i would like to say to the council, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that i am very pleased to be able to speak to you today on behalf of the s&d group. you have to move forward, move forward without fear. this is the message my group intends to send to the council after the meeting on monday showed a large majority on the package presented by the european commission. now it's time to move on. president schulz was right to call this plenary session in an emergency because we are showing that we are ready. the european parliament is ready. the council must also be prepared in the coming days to adopt the measures which the european citizens are waiting for, which are measures of solidarity but also measures of security for our citizens! because we are thinking about the relocation of refugees, but we are also thinking about the defence of the external borders, we are also thinking about the creation of a permanent, mandatory system for a common asylum policy in the european union. we are also thinking of a foreign policy which will allow the mediterranean to stabilize. we are also thinking of helping with the repatriation work. we also think about the organization of hot spots. so there is not only solidarity, but also responsibility and therefore a balanced position which should be agreed by all the member states. i continue to appeal to all member states, even the most recalcitrant ones: let no one be fooled into thinking that through the barbed wire, through the walls, we can meet such a great and important challenge. we were with some socialist and democratic colleagues at the serbian-hungarian border and seeing the barbed wire and seeing the refugee camps we felt a great bitterness and a great pain. we want europe to recover this image, to share this image and to rediscover itself. europe is europe again! europe once again as an agent of solidarity! europe once again an example for the world in human rights! europe must once again be a great power of goodness and a great power of civilization! we know the challenge is not easy, but those who give up without a fight don't deserve to be a hero. we socialists and democrats will be in the front line in this battle of civilization.
the council's conclusions are indecent: the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. a majority welcomes the commission's proposal to distribute 120 000 from italy, greece and hungary, but it is blocked by some states. the relocation is approved in principle only, it is not binding or permanent. this europe talks about values, forgetting that asylum and european solidarity are rights and laws, not values. the only things he can decide are walls, military intervention in libya that will increase refugees, fighting smugglers who exist because there are no legal escape routes and lists of safe countries to send refugees back, at the risk of discriminating against them by nation and violating international law.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that yesterday's meeting of the interior ministers of the 28 member states wrote one of the most shameful pages in the history of the european union. we heard juncker say last week in strasbourg that the european union lacks the union and lacks europe. we add that the will to have union and europe is also lacking, or that this will is probably found in other interests, for example economic ones. we are committed, as the five star movement, to making an alternative possible, to making another europe possible, but the facts, unfortunately, force us to believe that this conviction must become a utopia, a broken dream, an illusion. well, we often hear the question: what is europe doing? let us give this europe a name. we're facing a humanitarian crisis, and what do we do? germany is suspending schengen and reintroducing internal border controls, hungary is erecting barbed wire walls on the border with serbia, romania, poland, the czech republic and slovakia are opposing the relocation of the 40,000 migrants, which was already an absurd figure in itself, and reducing the number to 32,250, and the united kingdom has made use of the opt-out clause and will not participate in the decision. so in conclusion, no to mandatory, no to quotas, no to relocation of asylum seekers from april, but from august 2015. so as of yesterday, since the last landings, not 40,000 but 32,000 asylum seekers to be relocated. it's a disgrace! each member state must take responsibility for the decisions it takes. the european commission must ensure that these countries are sanctioned and fined, otherwise, if we continue to go along with the mors tua vita mea principle, this european union is bound to implode in the short term, thank you.
i would simply like to inform the house that the decision to vote on this matter is linked to the procedure: the council needed a vote of opinion from parliament. so it is not a whim of the political families or the president to open a debate, but it is respect for the rules.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the approach so far has not been entirely correct, because the things i would like to hear are also those concerning, for example, how to deal with those situations in countries at war. no one here has uttered the magic word islamic state, but what is happening in syria, also because of europe, should make us think: we should also take some action in syria, in libya. let's think about eritrea, where there's been a war for 30 years and you can't understand why nobody has done anything until now, obviously it didn't matter. it doesn't matter now because no one talks about it. we must also be able to go and stop these countries at war, to make sure that there are no more refugees. and then the thing i would also like to hear is that since there are certainly refugees who are fleeing from war, but there are also people who are taking advantage of it and who maybe want to come here just to be in some social system that welcomes them in a quiet way. i would like to see that, in addition to these people who have no rights, we also start talking about the fact that we must send them back and know how to send them back, which i regret i do not see or hear here. thank you, sir.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that the council's misstep will not be repeated next week. it is unfathomable, shameful, the behaviour of some member states with the new myopia and deafness that hold the council hostage, slaves to electoral consensus, insensitive to the appeals of the international community, unresponsive to the recommendations of this house, ignoring the wave of solidarity of thousands of european citizens, including those of their own countries. we are rebelling against the selfishness of the states which choose, which by choosing the path of the denial of rights violate the human dignity of thousands of women, men and especially children. what about the more than 100,000 children who arrived in the first six months of the year alone, and all those who will arrive in the coming months? how can we deny them their basic rights, how can we deprive them of their dignity and how can we steal their future? the time has come to act, because the future of europe also depends on our ability to share our european dreams and values. no more minutes of silence, it's time to give a concrete response to the biggest humanitarian emergency in europe, thank you.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to take a long-term approach to the phenomenon of migration, we must look beyond the community's borders. we must bear in mind that 4 million syrian refugees are currently in the territories of lebanon and jordan. this shows that it is to their land that they wish to return. many of them also belong to the christian minority of the eastern churches, europe of christian roots, cannot remain unmoved by their tragedy, especially the yazidi minorities, harassed and persecuted by isis. we will therefore welcome a military operation under the auspices of the un, combined with an increase in the resources made available to the unhcr. we need a common asylum policy, efficient reception centres in transit countries and, above all, changes to the dublin regulation. the policies of economic development cooperation must be linked to those of combating illegal immigration. i mean, we have to use the powers that the treaties give us, thank you.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are disappointed by the outcome of monday's vote, but we cannot accept a europe that is unable to cope with its greatest crisis. so we will urge the council to implement and try to implement the plan. parliament is there and it is doing its part. because it is the citizens who are asking us, and when they tell us where europe is and what it is doing, we cannot and do not want to remain without answers. europe cannot turn its head the other way or forget that when we were not 28, we welcomed political refugees, but we also welcomed economic migrants, and from countries which are now retreating. i have heard some petty and unacceptable propaganda here today. how can we think that it was the farsighted choice of leadership by merkel, by germany as a whole, or by italy and greece, which led to a historic exodus? how can we be so petty, demagogic, stupid for a few more votes? and so are many forces in my country that elude and deceive our citizens. mr commissioner, as we look forward to the new summit, as we work to make it a success, i would remind you of the emergency of people trapped between borders, and today we also hear gasps, trapped between borders, in a grip from which there is no escape. please solve this issue!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, article 80 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states: the principle of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility applies to the common immigration policy, the common asylum and protection policy. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to fulfil its obligations under the geneva convention, but above all to respect history and the crimes committed in this century and in the centuries to come. mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the council's scandalous decision i saw neither common policy nor solidarity, much less fair solidarity. i have seen tolerance for concrete walls and barbed wire, i have seen attachment to the usual hypocritical economic and electoral interests. i've seen even more hypocrisy in shedding tears for a day in front of a photograph without doing anything on the ground. the selfishness and indifference of a few states cannot kill the dignity of all, of the whole of europe, otherwise it will be the winter not only of 2015 but of the european project. end of the dublin of inadequacy. yes to legal channels, yes to mandatory quotas, yes to sanctions for those who refuse. that's what we want on monday. the european parliament is asking for it, the european citizens want it. law, justice and humanity demand it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, nothing definite has been said by the council summit: the divisions between the countries of eastern europe and the rest of the continent remain strong. only the first plan for the resettlement of refugees was given the green light: this europe seems to be taking one step forward and two steps back. member countries remain deeply divided over the second tranche of 120 000 relocations and how to manage the flow of migrants arriving at the borders. this is while some eastern european countries are introducing more restrictive immigration rules and continue to build barbed wire walls to keep migrants away. i hope, therefore, that the extraordinary council convened on 22 december will find a common solution. europe is built on solidarity and not on tear gas at the frontiers. we must discuss the reform of the dublin regulation and the european right to asylum, in other words, a genuine integrated european policy on the phenomenon of migration which is binding on the member states and which also includes economic sanctions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is a well-established practice for the 'catch the eye' to be given the floor, especially as in this case where many members were given the floor, at least one member per group. but as for the europe of nations and freedom group, i tabled the request at the beginning of the debate and neither i nor any other member was given the floor. i'd like to talk to you for a minute.
in writing. europe is still far from solidarity and the fair sharing of responsibilities between member states. the council's decision to relocate on a voluntary basis 40,000 migrants who have arrived in italy and greece over the next two years has to contend with the hostility of a group of eu countries: the agreements reached at present allow for the relocation of just over 32 000 refugees, which is too few to meet the real needs. this is the ineffective response for the time being to the bankrupt structure of the dublin regulation and its failure to be revised. without a permanent and mandatory relocation mechanism for all those member states which are under exceptional migratory pressure and without a common international strategy to deal with the causes of the flows, we will periodically see the chaos of thousands of people fleeing to a europe without a union. we, the spokesmen of the five star movement, will continue to fight for the change of the dublin regulation and for the affirmation of a fair, binding and mandatory distribution of migration flows between all the member states.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we also welcome the commitment of the united nations to replace the millennium development goals with a new ambitious programme which will commit the international community to continue its fight against poverty and to renew its commitment to sustainable development by 2030. we are pleased that a broadly participatory working method was chosen for the new agenda and its 17 points: institutions, society and the scientific world. we expect the heads of state and government to come forward with concrete and urgent commitments to start making this agenda a reality and in order to achieve the objectives we call on all governments to ensure adequate economic, human resources and full institutional support. it is clear that one of the objectives of sustainable development is to combat climate change and all aspects related to it: the protection of the environment, ecosystems and biodiversity, and the sustainable use of marine resources. we can no longer talk about development without talking about climate change. the new york summit is therefore also intended to lay the foundations for work in paris. an integrated approach between social, economic and environmental issues is needed to ensure the sustainability of development itself. there is a very strong link between climate change and human rights issues, as the former have a heavy impact on the latter, poverty, quality of life, fundamental rights, climate migration, the real risks that my colleague mr duncan spoke about earlier. these are all things that we're experiencing every day. this is why these issues will be discussed at cop21 21 where the principles of sustainable development will have to be integrated into the national policies and programmes of the countries and we hope that the will of the states to reach a binding agreement will be demonstrated.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in less than two weeks the new sustainable development agenda will be adopted in new york. it is important that the european union has managed to speak with one voice in these negotiations. now we need to think about how to turn these goals into reality, just as the plight of migrants forces us to think about the root causes, including climate change and a level of global inequality that is completely unsustainable. to achieve these goals, governments need to invest much more resources in development policies and in coherent policies. this is finally a universal agenda, one that concerns us all and that requires us to rethink the way we live, produce, consume, because in terms of sustainable development all countries can be considered developing. deep changes in european and national policies will be needed to align with the new goals on sustainability, inequalities, education and gender equality. i would ask the commissioner how the various directorates-general are coordinating this, and it will be essential to set up appropriate monitoring and tutoring systems, and i hope that parliament will have a key role in this.
in writing. the next un summit will have the important objective of adopting the new agenda for sustainable development 2015-2030, the first global compact for human development and the protection of the planet. the scope and ambition of the new agenda, which aims to align all eu and member states' policies with the sustainable development goals (sdgs), requires the introduction of participatory governance mechanisms that ensure a strong role for civil society in the implementation, monitoring and review of the sdgs. the new agenda must become an integral part of the contract between people, including civil society and responsible businesses, and their governments, based on the principles of transparency and participation. to successfully achieve the sustainable development goals, the eu institutions will need to step up efforts to create greater social cohesion at a time of slow growth and high unemployment, which lead to less solidarity among citizens. only a development model that produces positive effects not only in terms of profit but also in social, cultural and environmental terms can achieve the objectives of sustainable development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we agree with many of the proposals in the energy package: the updating of labelling, the promotion of renewable self-production, self-consumption, with a reduction in network charges; more guarantees for those who invest in renewables and so on. we hope that this will be the prerequisite for a real new deal for citizens and for energy democratisation, but we cannot help denouncing another new deal which was launched today in the energy committee, where the groups are due to give their reports and opinions on the energy summer package next week. this morning, in the meeting of coordinators, behind closed doors and with a handshake, despite the opposite opinion of all the other epp and s&d groups, they quickly changed the rules for allocating files without any justification and without adequate discussion. in any constitutional democracy the basic rules are not changed overnight when they no longer correspond to the interests of a party, even if it is the majority. today, however, a form of degenerate democracy has taken hold in this parliament. the bullying dictatorship of the majority which turns the only elected european institution into a non-rival free market of cows between only two political groups, so that every parliamentary act, every fantastic new deal you prepare, is tainted at the bottom by a progressive loss of a minimum common ethical denominator. luck is that a majority is not given forever. so much so that a famous historical figure, you should know him, said that the last will be first. this is something that those who are sitting here today and who have suffered under totalitarian regimes and political persecution should remember well. today some of them have become active or unwitting accomplices in this coup. it is fortunate that, thanks to your wicked and shortsighted actions, the majorities in europe will change more rapidly than is already happening. that's the only historical merit we'll give you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, i do not have merkel's face and i am 100% original today. as regards energy, i shall speak in italian tonight since there was one who spoke in swedish before. in the 1970s there was an israeli pipeline that gave iran the opportunity to sell oil, this is a very clear example to make it clear that when you can do the interests of the peoples you should not look in anyone's face. what is europe doing? to make a mockery of russia or azerbaijan, he tries in every way to change strategy. but do you think it's more important to serve the interests of the people or to serve the interests of the corporations? is it more important to serve the interests of the united states or is it more important to serve the interests of the europeans, who would pay much less for gas and oil? these are two facts which show how europe is actually subservient to american power and is condescending on so many policies which in the end prove to be insane, thank you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the package of measures adopted last july undoubtedly strengthens the european union's energy strategy and its credibility with its international partners in the run-up to the paris climate conference. i believe that the strengths of this package lie above all in the fact that the revision of the ets allows two fundamental objectives to be kept together in the way it is formulated: the first, very ambitious, concerns environmental targets and criteria for industrial sustainability, namely a reduction of at least 40% of emissions by 2030; the second is that all this is happening in the context of a battle to safeguard the international competitiveness of the industrial sectors most exposed (as many have said) to the risk of relocating production outside the european union. what i want to say is that, in conclusion, together with the commission's commitment to a simplified energy labelling system and the principle of consumer centricity, which is another very important thing, i believe that there is a risk that everything that has been put in place could be jeopardised if the proposals that make up the energy union were not to follow the ordinary legislative procedure. parliament must be a full-fledged institutional actor, through a binding legal framework and a system of indicative national targets, because without democratic control the achievement of the objectives is also jeopardised.
the package of measures announced is certainly a step in the right direction. a first response to the farmers and ranchers who are facing deep crises, also because of the russian embargo, not only in the milk sector but also in the pigmeat and fruit and vegetable sectors, for example. among the measures proposed we welcome the increase in the budget for promotion to help our producers to find new markets, while we see that as regards private storage of cheeses, it would be more logical and rational to distribute the resources between the different countries on the basis of production, only of hard cheeses, because they are the only ones concerned by this measure. finally, we would remind you that the commission has the power to adopt these measures in the coming weeks, without the ordinary procedure, but only by means of delegated and implementing acts, but we hope that the commissioner will take account of the wishes and requests of this parliament in order to avoid institutional conflicts in the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it will be difficult to make the farmers understand that they have travelled over a thousand kilometres by tractor from my piedmont and other parts of europe to defend their work. and so are the wine producers, and so are the other pig farmers, all in crisis, all facing prices that are far from being able to afford an honest remuneration for their work. we have given billions to the banks and we reject the measures which the agricultural world is humbly, courageously and resolutely, but also forcefully, demanding of us. i imagine the commission's embarrassment at having to speed up the timing of a cap reform which has just been adopted and is already being changed. i can imagine the embarrassment of the european institutions in explaining to the farmers the real reasons for russia's embargo on half of europe's food products, which have sacrificed a very important trade outlet that represented an important prospect for thousands of european farms. perhaps we should also think about a new europe in agriculture: the 40% of the european budget that is used for agricultural policy must be used better, more honestly, towards those who sweat and work the land, who are the best of this europe, which cares a lot about those who are assistants to immigrants by profession and who give a fuck about our farmers!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the crisis in agriculture, as we are currently experiencing it, affects many thousands of farming families in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore welcome the commissioner's decisions to step up market measures such as private storage and, above all, the promotion of advertising measures. i believe that they are also more promising than direct payments of a few hundred million euros. that sounds like a lot of money, but if you convert that to milk, that's 0.2 to 0.3 cents per liter of milk. it's not gonna make much of a difference. the crisis is also particularly acute for farmers who have to work in difficult conditions in disadvantaged areas and mountain areas. they have a small income, but it's going to be a big one. we should therefore start thinking, commissioner, about how we can really help these farms. and this parliament adopted a report more than two years ago which outlined solutions which include direct support for processors in mountain areas. we should take up these considerations again, commissioner.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the agricultural world is in a state of crisis, and the continuing fall in prices and profitability is only one aspect of the crisis. the world oversupply has now reached alarming proportions and the closure of the russian market and the increasing difficulties of demand in the chinese market represent a further critical factor. the cap itself does not have the effective instruments to deal with this state of crisis: the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the extraordinary aid package of eur 500 million, the private storage of cheese and meat and the extraordinary promotion of the two sectors on the internal market and in third countries was confirmed yesterday in luxembourg. i consider this a sign of goodwill, but it does not address the issue of falling agricultural prices or the problem of unfair trading practices. the european competition authority must take direct action on these two points in the food chain, particularly on the problem of the price at production and consumption. there is no traditional action that can change the scenario, commissioner, a qualitative leap in european policies is indispensable.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis we are experiencing is caused by many things, as we have said, as our colleagues have said this evening: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations. we have a huge energy cost which affects not only the life of industry but also the life of our agriculture. the initial solutions identified by the commission are, in my view, correct: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. so let's show that we understand that we understand that the first link in the chain is not what the product often looks like, the first link in the chain is the producer, that is, it's an entrepreneur. we are paying attention to a subject who is not only destined to take, that is to say to receive the resources we rightly allocate to him, but is destined to take action, that is to release his energies to generate value.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, every day hundreds of tir trucks import food products into italy without any indication of place of origin or labels, and these products magically become made in italy agri-foodstuffs. a proposal for a european made regulation providing for the mandatory indication of origin for products intended for consumption was submitted by the commission in 2005. the text has been blocked in the council for five years with serious consequences in terms of food fraud. the eu is currently labelling about half of its products anonymously, from pasta to fruit juices, from milk to cheese, from cured meats to tomato concentrate. the made in the eu regulation would extend the obligation to indicate the origin of agricultural products on the label to all food products, thus reducing food fraud, which generates a turnover of around two billion euros a year. traceability and transparency of labels will ensure greater safety for consumers, but also higher incomes for producers, who suffer considerable damage from food fraud. the council is seizing this opportunity and is finally adopting the made in regulation.
in writing. ‒ while the eu rains taxes, gambling and problems, citizens pay dearly for every euro embezzled, such as the state rescue fund, which has cost the italians €63 billion so far! time is running out and europe is at the end of the line, but the new commission work programme for 2016 does not provide the answers that have been so long awaited and needed, for example on the issue of immigration. the text welcomes new measures such as ttip and envisages new interferences with the competences of the member states. that is why i voted against the report: we must immediately question a meaningless currency like the euro and rewrite the treaties and the wrong rules of this dictatorship. it takes action, it takes courage. it is no longer just an economic choice, but an ethical and civilized one. the future of all our children is at stake.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree with the spirit of it and with most of its points. i find the points on growth and employment particularly important and interesting. it is essential that the commission should work to restart the economy of our continent.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the resolution on the european commission's work programme for 2016. clearly, this is a text which mostly supports the commission's work in areas where i do not support the lines it has taken (monetary policy, ttip, environmental policies, immigration) or in areas where i would like it to interfere less with the competences of the member states (both in economic matters and in the context of a number of measures).
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution on the commission's work programme for 2016, in which the european parliament set out the guidelines on which the european executive will have to work. i voted in favour of the text because i believe it includes the priorities with which the union has to deal. i am thinking, for example, of the social problems in the eu, especially unemployment, the skills gap, inequalities and social exclusion, the risks of social dumping and brain drain. in this sense, i believe that investment in quality job creation and investment in social matters, with a focus on skills, is absolutely necessary. other major challenges facing europe include the substantial reduction of bureaucratic and administrative burdens on citizens and businesses and the revision of tax policy. finally, we must not forget the need to set out an ambitious climate and energy framework, making a substantial contribution to the conclusion of a global climate agreement.
in writing. ‒ we cannot support the juncker commission's work programme. together with the m5s europe delegation, we voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the european commission's work programme for 2016. parliament welcomed the measures taken on employment, growth and investment and called on the commission to pursue these objectives for 2016; stresses the need to introduce a mandatory 'sme test' and a 'competitiveness test' for all future legislative proposals; considers that the use of impact assessments including compliance with the principle of subsidiarity should be increased; the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to establish a european agency for the evaluation of expenditure and the evaluation of costs to assist the court of auditors. the european parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's trade policy is not distorted by the threat of a trade war.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because europe must respond to the issues it faces with a clear vision and direction and leadership to meet the expectations of its citizens. in particular, on the issues i deal with most, i welcomed the amendments introducing aid to farmers to anticipate market crises, offering new, more robust instruments to avoid income losses and communicating what the situation may be with more accurate real-time data - which i consider to be of enormous importance. i would also like to stress my position on the need to correct imbalances in the agri-food chain, in particular to ensure fairness and transparency in relations between primary producers, processors, suppliers and distributors. i think that the fight for transparency is one of the best battles of the european union.
in writing. ‒ this programme is without a shadow of a doubt the continuation of the european failure. don't change anything about it. you continue the same policies that have been slaughtering the peoples of europe for years.
in writing. ‒ i voted strongly in favour of the ep resolution on the european commission's work programme for 2016 because the s-d group has worked hard to improve the initial text by making the message to the european commission much more incisive on some key points, such as the eu's social agenda and the implementation of a european social dimension to address the eu's problems, such as unemployment, inequalities and social exclusion. the eu needs a clear social dimension to support economic recovery and promote investment in sectors with a high employment impact and social investment focusing on skills, child and disability care and other social services. the social economy and the social enterprises on which it is based will have an important role to play in this. a key role can be played by fully implementing the fund for strategic investments (feis) and thereby approving investment projects in the member states that contribute to a strong recovery and balanced growth and the creation of quality jobs. finally, i welcome the call to help farmers to anticipate market crises by offering them new and, above all, income-saving instruments.
in writing. this resolution is intended to urge the european commission to put in place an ambitious work programme for 2016. in addition to the need for regulatory reorganization and simplification, we must put the accelerator on initiatives that promote economic growth and employment in europe. parliament has spoken out on important issues such as the fight against tax evasion, a collective and supportive approach to immigration policies and the revival of our economy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's energy strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's energy strategy. interventions and challenges needed to give certainty and security to the lives of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the joint resolution on the european commission's work programme for 2016, as i believe it contains interesting insights that the eu executive can draw on when defining its priorities for the year ahead. i particularly appreciated the reference in the document to the need to remove obstacles in the single market, in the light of an improvement in the conditions for financing enterprises, in particular smes and micro-enterprises.
in writing. ‒ in view of the work done by the rapporteur, i thank him and welcome the commitment he has promised on economic growth and jobs, the fight against tax fraud, the digitalisation of the single market and international policies, both commercial and diplomatic, with confidence that a more decisive role for the eu in the world is indeed achievable. in particular, i am very enthusiastic about the promise of concrete initiatives in the field of health. for these reasons, i have chosen to guarantee my affirmative vote.
in writing. ‒ the european commission must have a work programme that responds promptly to the expectations of its citizens. 2016 will be a decisive year in particular for the issues of the common approach to immigration, energy security and independence, job creation and support for smes. i hope that the commission will be able to exercise its right of legislative initiative more effectively in order to give the eu strong and authoritative leadership. i am very pleased that the commission is concentrating its work on the ten strategic priorities set out by president juncker.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the commission's 2016 work programme because i strongly believe in the creation of european leadership to foster a single market and strong cohesion among member states. the work programme we voted on is characterised by strategies to promote growth; employment; investment; the fight against fraud and tax evasion; the creation of a digital single market; the development of the copyright sector; the creation of a competitive internal energy market; the improvement and development of transport and infrastructure; the protection of the environment, agriculture and fisheries; the efficiency of international trade policies and a strengthening of legislation. the text also calls for a fairer monetary and economic union, which should follow a well-coordinated and detailed plan, using a well-defined unitary method. all these objectives are aimed at achieving economic, social and structural growth in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the commission's work programme for 2016, a text that is completely unsatisfactory and inadequate, failing to call for a change of course, limiting itself to generic statements and endorsing policies that have been widely shown not to work, dragging europe into an endless crisis. it could, however, have been an important reminder to the commission to put the real interests and needs of citizens, the common good, back at the centre of its action and to put finance back at the service of the real economy and society. this resolution goes in the opposite direction, welcoming unacceptable and risky initiatives such as capital union, ttip and the juncker plan, or pushing for further strengthening of the current economic governance framework, as well as for the full implementation of unsustainable and absurd budgetary rules. it could not be otherwise, considering that this report is the fruit of yet another unfortunate attempt to find a compromise between the apparently irreconcilable views of the main parties of the establishment. for these reasons, although there are some points in the text which i share, including the references to the need to introduce a minimum income for citizens and to use taxpayers' resources effectively, on which i have been very vocal, i could not support this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution underlines how europe must take on a whole range of key challenges of the 21st century and how the union must be the answer to the serious employment and economic crisis, the lack of investment and growth. i could not support this proposal because it was contrary to the resolution of my group which in fact called for less europe, the blockade of ttip, greater transparency, more democratic involvement and which sharply criticised austerity and the single currency. i believe it is absolutely necessary to change the current approach, giving member states the possibility to implement their own fiscal and economic policies without restrictions; the european union has a duty to ensure that economic governance is transitioned from the austerity policies imposed by the european union and the euro to greater freedom of action for the member states. in fact, economic and statistical indicators reveal a dangerous and widespread tendency towards recession in the european union, a recession that is certainly due to economic restrictions imposed at eu level, a trend that absolutely must change, offering the union the possibility of a new approach.
the socialist group is convinced that parliament will today send a strong signal of solidarity and concern to refugees, but also to the citizens of europe. we support his letter, we share the spirit and the request to the council and the commission. i was saying, mr president, that we share your letter, and we also share your request to the commission and the council to mobilise these resources immediately to support action in favour of refugees in jordan, lebanon and turkey. i would like to take this opportunity to express on behalf of my group our sincere thanks to all the volunteers and ngos who are working in these hours with passion, with love and with great competence, and who have shown great generosity.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the efdd group does not have a clear view on this. the italian delegation to the european parliament strongly supports his request. we believe that europe must be europe and that three countries cannot be left alone to face this emergency.
in writing. ‒ the extraordinary process that led to this hasty vote today is a clear example of the lack of democracy in europe and the continuing exploitation of the migration issue by the left. i am absolutely in favour of the principle of allocating migrants by quotas and i am in favour of their redistribution among the member states. this decision, however, deals with the immigration problem in a very superficial way: the european union has a long history of supporting the right of asylum and the right to seek asylum. in summary, europe will not take into account almost all of the landings in 2015 and therefore does not introduce the return certainty. for all these reasons i could not support this text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because i believe that solidarity is one of the fundamental principles not only of the european union but of european civilisation as a whole. i think it is time for the member states to realise the situation facing the whole continent and to start taking responsibility and sharing equally the effort needed to deal with the situation.
in writing. ‒ the decision is unacceptable and does not seem to want to solve the problem of uncontrolled immigration in europe. i voted against a palliative that will not actually ease the burden of immigration in italy and will serve as a sounding board for new waves of migration. it is worth noting that the 'democratic' president schulz rejected without explanation a resolution by my group which clearly expressed our position.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the urgent proposal to relocate 120,000 asylum seekers from italy, greece and hungary to other eu member states. the european commission's proposal foresees that an additional 120,000 asylum seekers will be transferred from italy (15,600), greece (50,400) and hungary (54,000).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council decision on the introduction of provisional measures for italy, greece and hungary. article 78 (3) tfeu provides for an emergency response system to situations characterised by a sudden inflow of nationals from third countries. these measures are temporary and exceptional. in addition, the annex to the european agenda on migration, adopted on 13 may 2015, provides for well-defined criteria for the redistribution and relocation of persons in need of international protection: gdp, unemployment rate, past numbers of asylum seekers and resettled refugees. the mediterranean sea and the balkans have seen an intensification of the migration situation in recent months, with some 140,000 people, mostly from syria, eritrea and afghanistan, to be relocated to other european countries. italy received about 40 thousand asylum applications, an increase of 27% compared to 2014. temporary measures for italy, greece and hungary were also called for by unhcr and a number of ngos.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, in an extraordinary session, overwhelmingly approved the european commission's urgent proposal to activate a second mechanism for the relocation of migrants. the emergency scheme proposed provides for the redistribution of 120,000 asylum seekers across all member states and benefits the countries most affected by the refugee crisis, namely italy, greece and hungary. i fully support this decision which, if approved by the council, will finally provide for a fairer and more equitable burden-sharing between the member states by increasing the operational and financial support of the european union. this is an effort which strengthens internal solidarity and will be indispensable to alleviate the pressure which is now excessively placed on the countries at the front. today's vote sends a clear message to national governments, asking them to do their part now, with the same speed as the european parliament, to find shared and coordinated solutions to an unprecedented crisis.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of this legislative resolution so that parliament can give its full support to the council's decision. i believe it is of the utmost importance that concrete action be taken as soon as possible to alleviate and share the enormous effort that the italian, greek and hungarian authorities are making to manage this exceptional wave of migration. the european union is a community of nations, and its members are bound by the principle of solidarity between the member states, which is the founding principle of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the council decision because i agree with the provisional measures in the area of international protection for italy, greece and hungary which sanction the various measures to be taken to deal with the migration and security emergency. the decision to distribute refugees more equitably and more evenly among member states is based on criteria such as gdp, population, unemployment rate and the number of refugees seeking political asylum. the temporary measures provide for the relocation of refugees from italy, greece and hungary to other member states - the 'member states of relocation' - which will be subject to very specific obligations to be met.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support the council's decision to relocate on a voluntary basis, over the next two years, 40,000 refugees from italy and greece, directly affected by the refugee crisis. this decision is not yet a permanent and binding measure to ensure that all the countries of the union contribute in a coordinated way to the protection of those fleeing conflict and persecution, nor is it a sufficient and effective solution to the refugee crisis and the exceptional migratory flows that must be addressed by addressing the root causes of conflict and instability, including through changes in our trade policies. it cannot be denied, however, that this is a necessary first step towards the recognition of the principles of solidarity and cooperation between european states, and thus towards the overcoming of the dublin regulation, which we have strongly opposed. that is why i voted in favour of this decision.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask permission to say a few words about the disappearance of pietro ingrao. ingrao was a great figure in italian politics, a builder of democratic institutions, a father of the left, the most important one for me. he was a very influential member of the pci leadership for decades and he was my teacher. with him goes the most anomalous italian communist, open, suggestive, popular and empathetic. his strength was not anchored in an ideology, it came from life, from experiences, from emotions, even in their corporeity, it came from contact - as he himself would say for him psychically unbearable - with the injustice that is exercised on the last or, rather, on the offended. for this reason his thought, which he wanted to maintain to the end, nevertheless had a great universal intensity. i wanted to address this thought to ingrao because he was a man who was certainly at times constrained by his time, but who was able to live an authentic inner freedom.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the tragic situation in greece, the five star movement is forced to vote in favour of the proposal to increase the co-financing for the old programme and to advance the pre-financing for the current programme. the five star movement has always supported a policy of greater flexibility towards the greek people, sharply criticising the austerity policies and the negotiating arrangements of the memorandum that have been imposed on greece. i would stress that the proposal does not involve any change in the annual ceilings for commitments and payments provided for in the multiannual financial framework and that the annual breakdown of commitment appropriations for the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund remains unchanged. i would also point out that a mechanism has been put in place to ensure that the amounts are used exclusively for payments to beneficiaries and for operational programmes, and thus for citizens. the five star movement therefore votes in favour, but, please note, our vote on these individual measures does not in the least affect our assessment of the oppressive treatment of the greek people in the name of austerity, budgetary constraints and rules which apply only to some and not to others. i would also like to stress the enormous effort and the great humanity shown by the greek people, despite the very difficult conditions in which they find themselves, in welcoming the migrants who are men and women fleeing from wars or seeking a better future and not, as is often suggested in public discourse, clandestine. the treaty on the functioning of the european union mentions the principle of solidarity in article 80 and in article 174 it states: 'in order to promote the harmonious development of the union as a whole, the union shall develop and pursue its action to achieve the strengthening of economic, social and territorial cohesion.' do you think that the european union, in its various incarnations of the commission, the council and the majority in this parliament, is really applying these principles? it is not enough to cite the example of economic macro-conditionality applied to cohesion policy to give us an answer that is unfortunately not reassuring. (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i also thank president mihaylova for her report and for the speed with which she guided the decision of our committee. it is well known that, as a result of the crisis, investment levels have collapsed across europe, both private and public, when it would have been necessary to intervene and boost the economy with specific funds for growth and innovation. in this situation, cohesion policy has remained, even and especially in these most difficult years, the most substantial and tangible source of investment for european citizens. we also know that the situation in greece, despite the efforts made in the reform process, remains difficult and that is why our group has strongly supported the adoption of these extraordinary measures, which are - as i recall - simply measures which allow greece, in a very difficult budgetary situation, to continue to use the funds and thus allow the private individuals who have received these funds to complete the investments and to receive the payments, and allow the spending of the funds to be accelerated in the first period. this is very important because it shows us that a more flexible use of the structural funds can enable countries to improve their investment performance. i would like to remind the many colleagues who keep on saying nonsense that the european union with its entire budget costs the european citizens three days' tax, the rest is theirs.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have welcomed the package of measures proposed by commissioner crețu to support greece and we thank president mihaylova for her valuable work. by definition, cohesion policy must be firmly rooted in the territories and regions on which it affects. the structural funds and the rules accompanying their use must be able to operate effectively in the contexts in which they are engaged; the liquidity problems which are holding back investment in greece and which have made these exceptional measures necessary are of a severity which we all hope will be temporary and we hope that, thanks also to these measures, cohesion policy will achieve its objectives, reduce the gap between regions and allow the greek regions to grow. although the measures taken by the commission are exceptional, the circumstances which made them necessary are not an isolated case. there are other regions which are facing the same difficulties, although not with the same severity, and which would require similar interventions. we are not tired of repeating that the south of italy - which the commissioner knows well and i thank her personally for the attention she has given us together with the regions of the south - is also suffering from the cofinancing rules and is asking for more flexibility. i hope that the path traced by the greek case will lead us to a serious reflection on the future of cohesion policy, its financing, but above all its effectiveness. we must identify the obstacles and eliminate them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to stress the value of the decision we are taking, both in terms of a more marked expression of solidarity, especially budgetary solidarity, solidarity with europe's resources and also, let us say, the opening of a dialogue that goes beyond the austerity policies that have accompanied the last few years and that have also profoundly marked the fate of a country like greece. i would like to take this opportunity to point out, however, that there is a proposal here which is moving in the direction of a solidarity mechanism for cohesion policy. we are at the end of the long 2007-2013 programming cycle for cohesion policy resources and it is likely that we will do everything we can, we are all committed to avoiding the unwinding of huge resources. but i think we have to consider the hypothesis that if we all had the opportunity to have a large budget of resources uncommitted to programming, to use these resources to concentrate and deal with the most serious humanitarian crisis we have, the refugee crisis, and then use the uncommitment not to return the resources to cohesion policy to individual states, but to put them back into a fund that has to commit itself very much to deal with this enormous crisis that we have.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the wave of instability and widespread concern that the recent greek crisis has brought to the entire mediterranean scene has not ended its negative influences and although the danger of default has faded - or at least it is hoped - the long-term remedies must be implemented in a complete, generalized and rapid manner. the text under consideration shows that the emergency phase has not been exhausted and that greece still needs extraordinary support measures because it cannot afford to lose, and we with it, cohesion policy funding. there is a widespread perception of the fragility of the euro area economy and all the institutions have been called upon to play their part by finding every economic resource still available and the same balance that with a gesture of responsibility and foresight i would ask to be implemented also for southern italy so lacking in resources but now so ready to exploit every opportunity for redemption.
on behalf of the efdd group . madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner mimica, we are starting from the assumption that mr theocharous' report is a well-done piece of work because it is the work of a committee that is concerned with development and international cooperation. unfortunately, however, we must also note that what we manage to get out of parliament, or what is proposed as a committee, does not get a response from the states, who would otherwise have more chance of supporting, financing and changing development and international cooperation policies. because it is clear that if you go to international summits, if you go to forums to talk about a change of agenda, about the fact that the objectives are being met, these 17 objectives that we have talked about, but then you continue to support the aggressive policies by european multinationals in these same developing countries, it becomes very complicated to be able to implement what we propose. we have many cases of state-owned companies in european countries exploiting the raw materials of the territories we are talking about, we are talking about oil, we are talking about water, we are talking about energy in general, and the voices we hear from those countries are voices of the sort but let us exploit our own resources in peace. but we have often and willingly given money that has been lost for the most part on the street because of the very high rate of corruption. so, the question we have to ask is: how can we improve, that is, how can we make sure that this money is not wasted and that development is real? i think we should change our strategy, perhaps we should limit multiannual funding to targets, to levels to be achieved and then, step by step, refinance if certain standards are achieved. it's a very complicated job. i am glad that this parliament has the right approach and that the commission is cooperative. we must be able to put more pressure on the states with greater force.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, too often we have seen the failure of cooperation policies which, through waste, corruption and inefficiency, have unfortunately failed to achieve the objectives set and to provide real added value for the citizens and the populations to whom they were aimed. the data tells us that in developing countries, population growth is concentrated in urban areas. it is therefore clear that the key to ensuring that the efforts and projects undertaken really improve the living conditions of the people is the involvement of the indigenous institutions, that is, within the countries themselves. the local authorities need to be empowered and adequate levels of transparency in the management of resources and the allocation of funds must be ensured, including and above all through the effective participation of associations and civil society, with whom a recovery path must be shared. education, health, housing and decent living conditions cannot allow for waste or delay.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i want to make a very realistic speech, starting from the fact that there are many mistakes, failures and shortcomings in european cooperation. let us be honest, if all the vast european resources that have been used in these decades had been used for effective development projects, which were really capable of changing local realities and with the participation of the people and without corruption and waste, we would today have another africa, we would have another middle east and we would have prevented so many conflicts and so much poverty. we must therefore give a new impetus, one that is consistent with what we are saying, and which aims to enhance the role of local authorities, both in the donor and recipient countries, by mobilizing the capacities of non-state actors, the resources that exist, and also the entrepreneurial capacities of civil society. i would say enough, let us limit the large projects which, even at european level, require such a wide participation threshold that it cuts out a great deal of experience from ngos working in the field, enough with the mega-galactic multinational cooperatives and the large, expensive and bureaucratic international organizations.
in writing. strategic planning that integrates national and local levels is essential to promote and integrate the three main dimensions of development: social, economic and environmental. the involvement of local authorities is therefore crucial, as they are aware of the realities and their strengths and weaknesses. the new development agenda allows for such involvement and the report calls, in specific areas, in particular for the introduction of partnership agreements between local authorities in eu member states and local authorities in developing countries. training and human resources are among the most important areas to be addressed in order to promote development which is not only linked to external intervention but which aims to give autonomy to communities.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, although this is a purely spanish case, i think it is important and proper to have this debate in the house this evening to give due attention to the dozens of petitions we have received which highlight and bring us back to a very serious problem of the truly unacceptable situations affecting hundreds of thousands of people who have been evicted. these petitions call for us to deal with a problem which, in the end, is not just a spanish problem, and i am referring to the overpowering power of the banks, banks which have sold particularly risky financial products, in fact deliberately omitting details and thus misleading consumers. this is clearly unacceptable. we must fight for consumer rights to be protected as soon as possible and the role of politics is clearly crucial in this. finally, i would like to stress that i very much hope that the resolution to be voted on in this house will include a clear reference to the right to housing and that the commission will take note of this as soon as possible.
member of the commission.– madam president, as i said before, eu legislation must be transposed and enforced in a satisfactory way so that the law fulfils its purpose. clear information provided to consumers, to increase their protection, is essential. i agree with what mr polčák said, that preventive measures are very important and that they may sometimes be more efficient than certain hard regulation, but there must be a smart combination of both types of measure. as i said, we are also analysing the reply from the spanish authorities which we received in june regarding the code of civil procedure, including its rules on mortgage enforcement proceedings and their conformity with the unfair contract terms directive. if the reply proves to be unsatisfactory, we shall take appropriate action without delay. i would like to reassure you of my commitment to guaranteed procedural protection for consumers. whenever consumers appear before the courts they must enjoy all the procedural safeguards that are guaranteed by eu consumer law and by the case law of the court of justice. to conclude, some of you asked about the rules on insolvency. i would like to assure you that we are working on the proposal on the principle insolvency rules, including for private persons. we should propose this new piece of legislation next year.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with our oral question we ask the commission to build on the joint statement by parliament and the council last june and to continue to press for a decisive modernisation of regulation (ec) no 428/2009 on dual-use items. there are two general principles which underlie the question and which need to be emphasized because they go beyond the specific case to which our request refers. the european institutions, especially in the field of human rights, must ensure that the rules which apply to everyone and everywhere are respected and must carry out strict controls capable of punishing those who do not respect them. the hacking team case cannot go unpunished, but we must not be content with punishing companies guilty of illegal spying and violations of basic freedoms. the real problem is not hacking team or the next company that will give the opportunity to talk about the issue again, the problem is in a weak regulation that is not coordinated with other countries and that is too easily circumvented. we are not credible if we claim to protect computer security and human rights in distant countries, while at the same time allowing our companies to trade with these same states some of the products that are banned precisely because they violate these same human rights. the sale of surveillance technology is too unregulated and action at community level is urgently needed, although it can only be a first step towards a global modernisation based on the wassenaar arrangement. it is essential that the european union be at the forefront of this battle of civilisations to prevent the extraordinary technological innovations that are accompanying our era from becoming weapons in the hands of the few to the disadvantage of the weakest.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would remind you that hacking team is a cyber-espionage company based in milan, italy, which has developed a new generation of viruses capable of spying on and controlling pcs and smartphones, designed to target criminals and terrorists, but also, if in the wrong hands, activists, human rights defenders and journalists. in italy the software was used by law enforcement, but the real business the company was doing was selling to sudan, the emirates, colombia, morocco, kazakhstan, lebanon, egypt, russia, mexico and others, violating the regulations, but above all human rights. and we know all this because, ironically, hacking team was hacked. his state-of-the-art spy software was stolen in a cyber attack, with all the risks that come with it. i have just heard what mr mosca said and i would like to add a detail. to sell this software to regimes and dictators, you needed the authorization of the ministry, which was obtained thanks to the pressure of the italian presidency of the council, that is matteo renzi, and it's not me who says it, but the president of hacking team himself in an intercepted email published on wikileaks. congratulations, colleague, i really appreciated your kind words of condemnation, but now i would like you to say these words to journalists who are arrested by regimes with which you have done business. i would also like to know why, you who are in government in italy, have not blocked the authorization for the sale of this software? you talk about human rights but you do business with dictators. you are the perfect expression of the consistency of your party. these surveillance tools are part of dual use, dual use, because they're not technically weapons of war, but they can become weapons of war in the wrong hands. a compromised computer is more useful than a spy satellite. therefore, an authorization is required to export this software, especially to non-democratic countries, authorizations that hacking team has deliberately ignored or obtained too easily from the italian ministry. how does the commission intend to solve the problem of the application of the european law on dual-use devices, especially those relating to computer surveillance? how do you think we can avoid another hacking team case?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what was supposed to be a peaceful picnic to protest against the tav, the high-speed train, last saturday saw moments of unacceptable violence against citizens by the italian police, events that were reported in the media in a distorted and falsified way. i was present with a delegation of some of my colleagues from the five star movement, the gue group and the green group in val susa for two days to hear the reasons for the no and to support them against this great useless and imposed project which is the tav. it is useless, because behind the false myth of progress and innovation, it wants to support a project that has no sustainability in terms of cost/benefit, in environmental terms, in social terms and in terms of mobility. we also call for transparency as to the funding that is provided for these works.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for two months now the citizens of sanremo in liguria have been protesting against the landfill called lot 6. it is called lot 6 because there are already five landfills in that area, and all of them, along with poor management, are destroying the territory and the existence of those who are unfortunate enough to live nearby. in twenty years a local mother has had to deal with seven cases of cancer in her family, and it is no coincidence that the most stubborn opposition comes from the mothers themselves. mr president, does it seem normal that to store waste for only three years, it is necessary to blow up a whole hill? does it seem normal to you to violate the directive on biodiversity, the directive on soil and water pollution without considering the directive on landfills, which italy has already violated several times? that is why i want to denounce here, in front of you, this new speculation because today the authorization was granted for the use of explosives for the construction of the site. the citizens have been under continuous guard for two months, day and night, and they have not tired and will never tire because it is a fight for survival, it is their lives. i appeal to the institutions and to the mayors: have the courage to look the citizens in the eye and give them an answer now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market i am very pleased with the work done by parliament on this subject. geographical indications for non-agricultural products represent a tremendous opportunity not only to protect the productive sectors which today generate wealth and employment, but also to keep alive a cultural and social heritage of which our continent is rich. protecting geographical indications means above all promoting a vision of europe. we will not give in to those who want to reduce our union to a mere trading platform. we want it to remain a place where beauty and quality are produced, thanks to innovation and tradition. i hope that the commission will take up parliament's strong signal and propose as soon as possible, by means of legislation, an effective system of unitary protection to protect consumers and producers and to defend our quality products throughout the world.
in writing. i think it is very important to establish a geographical indication mark also for non-agricultural products. there are many handicrafts, typical of specific territories, which are disappearing because of the entry of low-cost products into the market. the introduction of the geographical indication would provide an additional weapon in the fight against imports from countries such as china or india, as well as certifying to consumers that the product comes from quality production areas. i think it is essential that the use of the name should be free and accessible to all producers in a given area who produce products according to the prescribed methods. i am also strongly convinced that extending geographical indications can help to make the eu's position more consistent at international level, so as to protect all european quality products in bilateral and multilateral trade negotiations. finally, the gi mark would increase the transparency of raw materials and the traceability of products with a view to having adequate tools for the repression of fraud.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr weber is right, few would have believed these results, but we were among them, we of the european parliament, we of the european commission, because we said these things in the spring and they came to fruition in september, which is a matter of time. the european institutions must respond swiftly and with speed, president tusk. all right, let's go ahead and defend this area. i want to be a european champion of human rights, i do not want to turn this being into an ugly, bad bear just because i have to reject refugees. let us do this by implementing the decisions we have taken, quickly, president tusk. the hotspots linked to relocation, the defence of the external borders, the combination of security and reception, the policy being pursued by the european institutions towards turkey and lebanon, all of this convinces me that it must be done, it must be implemented. we must not confuse the responsibilities of the countries that have rowed with those of the countries that have shouldered the burden over the years. let us stop with the negative symbols that denote only the inability to govern problems, the barbed wire, the walls, the selfishness, the hatred. all this is a symbol of the inability to solve problems, problems are solved in a positive way. let us end this phase and open a new one, so as not to damage the soul and future of europe.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, frankly, after hearing the comments made in this informal council, i am quite satisfied. some people are proud of their achievements, i don't know what reality, what world they live in. this migrant crisis with thousands of deaths, is the usual mountain that gives birth to a mouse: 120 000 more migrants spread out means 20 days of transit for an average of 6 000 people a day, that's nothing. we are facing a crisis of voluntary blindness in europe, where each state pretends to look the other way while thousands of people pass through its territory and urges them to leave as soon as possible. some don't record them, some use barbed wire, tear gas and beatings. is this an external border crisis as some have said? no, my friends! there is a crisis at the eu's internal borders because when there is a wall separating budapest from slovenia, which is a schengen member, this is a crisis at the internal borders and the hungarian, slovak and romanian governments' game is a dangerous game, because the solidarity and stability of all are sacrificed to the electoral interests of a few and even when turkey is welcomed, celebrated and the suffering of the kurdish people forgotten, we lose credibility. this is europe today. this is not the europe of step by step, but of wall by wall, and the possibilities for change are there. we make special humanitarian corridors, we make legal channels, we completely bypass dublin. when will you bring this review to the table? we also overcome the foreign and trade policies of exploitation, decisive action on climate change. gentlemen, small steps are no longer enough. we need to make bold and consistent choices. these are the choices we have to make. these are the choices that defend our good name, president tusk. we're in, and you? if not now, when?
i am sorry, but we have said that there is a blue card for the speaker.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the real work has begun with the september council and it must now be put into practice very concretely, very quickly: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to enable them to assess the situation. we need effective european governance that respects the rights and humanity of people who are suffering so much. president juncker, i have no questions at this time. i thank you for your determination, for the conviction with which you acted. please continue. we ask president tusk, with great respect, but without discounting him for the high level of responsibility he bears, to play a more decisive and more incisive role in convincing the whole council that you are leading the way towards that responsibility and solidarity. i must say that i did not like the solomonic tone of your speech, in which you handed out a little responsibility here and there and put countries like italy and greece on the same level as countries i will not name, but which build walls, make laws that give three to five years in prison for those they find and do not set a good example of the europe that you rightly defended at the un. i ask you, then, because you hear the responsibility of italy, we have chosen between schengen and life to save and not to stand idly by, to save children, women and men like you and me.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, immediately after the european council's decision of 23 september, which was so painful and which was postponed several times, i asked myself what more could we have said, how we could have explained it to the citizens of europe and to those who still believe in the values of the union, if that conclusion had not been reached. the european parliament has expressed itself time and again by a large majority, and the approach and the decisions that have been reached are only a first step for us, because a new course on immigration policies, a process that will lead to concrete and strong action that takes account of the irreversible geopolitical change that generates migratory flows, is no longer deferrable. there's no going back now, just moving forward. the integration process concerning refugees is provoking a reflection, however, entirely within the union itself. first the indifference, then the bitter opposition of certain countries make us think and lead us to take the necessary action. president juncker's state of the union statements have underlined the lack of unity in the union.
president tusk, president juncker, thank you very much for your speeches, but much more for your engagement on this very difficult issue.
the agenda includes the discussion of the council and commission statements on the humanitarian situation of refugees in the eu and neighbouring countries [2015/2877 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again today we have heard the logic of the lesser evil, which seems to be the compass for the decisions taken by the european union. i am very pleased with the provisional measures for the relocation of 40 000 migrants, i am very pleased with the provisional measures for 120 000 migrants. i would like to point out that the idea of having a pilot project, in view of the amendment of the dublin regulation, has failed, the idea of having objective criteria has failed, so that we have a permanent mechanism and do not have to resort every time to the procedures and months of waiting for the adoption of emergency measures. the commission proposal has been distorted and the opinion of the european parliament has been ignored. migration is a phenomenon and not a problem, the problem is when there are no immediate solutions. it is a global and complex phenomenon, and it is right to address the issue of reception, but we must go to the root causes: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the illegal trade in human beings. that is why we have proposed a stop to the sale of arms, but we know that the interests of the arms industries are very powerful, and that is why parliament has voted by a majority against the stop to the sale of arms. we have proposed legal ways of accessing the european union so that we do not have operations like eunavfor med, khartoum, operation triton, only one would be enough, to avoid spending money on taxpayers and allow those fleeing war and persecution to arrive safely. we have proposed a change in dublin so that we can act ex ante to protect member states in difficulty and not ex post, when they are already in trouble.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that what surprises me most is that i hear a lot of criticism of hungary and, for the sake of all opinions, all opinions are legitimate, but i think we are forgetting a fundamental problem, particularly on syria, which is the islamic state, because i would like to know what the european strategies are also regarding this situation, it seems to me that non-european countries are intervening and i hear nothing from the european union, or little. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i have heard of fear, i have a fear, indeed, that foreign policy is being entrusted to the same people who caused the damage that has now created this whole wave of refugees. we think that someone who has caused this damage directly or indirectly has also been awarded the nobel peace prize. i am very afraid of this and i hope that the european union is beginning to realise that perhaps it should be a little more free.
it is not a point of order, mr president, but please respect the rules of procedure. there are rules which all elected representatives must respect. you are an elected representative, you sit in this parliament, you respect the rules of parliament.
ladies and gentlemen, in view of the considerable delay, i must inform you that this is the last blue card i will issue, because we have no time to continue this debate. we have been informed that the president of the delegation of the house of representatives of the kingdom of morocco, mr rachid talbi el alami, is in the gallery to follow our proceedings. we welcome the delegation from the house of representatives and hope that it will be an interesting and fruitful visit.
welcome, thank you very much for being here with us in strasbourg.
the agenda includes the resumption of the debate on the council and commission statements on the humanitarian situation of refugees in the eu and neighbouring countries [2015/2877 ((rsp)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we are holding this debate a few days before the anniversary of a massacre such as that of lampedusa, and at the same time there are massacres that are not mentioned, such as the one that returned more than a hundred bodies to the libyan coast. unhcr estimated that in 2015 alone, 2,860 people lost their lives trying to reach italian shores. so if there is an emergency, i believe that the only emergency we have to deal with is to save lives and to avoid massacres which are absolutely avoidable and which europe takes responsibility for not avoiding. 120 000 quotas are only a palliative, just as it is hypocritical to distinguish between refugees, economic migrants, climate migrants. we have a responsibility to bring down the dublin wall, we have a responsibility to implement a policy of humanitarian visas and a life-saving humanitarian corridor and to open a conference on the debt of the euro-mediterranean countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to appeal to the pro-european forces in this parliament, since it is useless to talk to xenophobes. commissioner timmermans, the council has accepted the reasons for the welcome, but we must go further and it is our responsibility to show that the council's conclusions translate into good policy and good practice. it is urgent to set up a european civil protection system which can coordinate national structures and tell citizens that reception is no different from reception. we also need a border service, now, to make the european union's space secure. european civil protection, a border guard service are indispensable instruments and it is urgent that parliament and the commission work together immediately and come forward with a proposal immediately.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the humanitarian crisis caused by immigration, the measures proposed are a step forward, but they are certainly not enough. i'd like to inform you about a subject that is not talked about much. the minors, the children, over a hundred thousand, many of them unaccompanied, arrived in the first six months of the year, almost double the number of last year. more needs to be done for them. asylum procedures must be speeded up, ensuring that the best interests of the child are always given priority, as clarified by the court of justice, and the obligation of all european states to welcome and assist unaccompanied minors who are actually on their territory, irrespective of the country of first arrival or previous asylum claims in other countries, must be respected in the context of the new relocation mechanisms. reunification with families or other relatives must be a priority and systems are needed to monitor the movements of unaccompanied minors, including to avoid the risk of them ending up in the hands of criminal organisations not only before but also after their arrival in europe.
your honor, let me explain what happened. the rules of procedure provide for five speeches on the subject of 'catch-the-eye', i have given more than that, one per group, your group has had one speech and i am sorry, we are already very late, so i cannot speak.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this protocol which aims to fill the gaps in the implementation of the forced labour convention. i believe it is essential to close the current legal gaps in order to provide more effective protection for victims of forced labour and to prevent phenomena such as trafficking in human beings for the purpose of exploiting labour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe it is important that member states are allowed to ratify the 2014 protocol to the ilo forced labour convention. the ratification of this protocol is an important step in the fight against trafficking and guarantees the rights of victims of crime throughout europe. the original convention on forced labour came into force almost a century ago; it is therefore regrettable that millions of people worldwide are still subject to forced labour.
in writing. ‒ forced labour is a crime that is unfortunately still present today, with tens of thousands of people falling victim to human traffickers every year. the international labour organization (ilo) estimated that some 21 million people were working in slavery in 2014. although the international convention against forced labour was signed in 1930, action against traffickers is still lacking and discontinuous, with particular shortcomings in the cooperation of criminal prosecution between states. effective measures are needed for the identification, release, protection, recovery and assistance of victims of forced labour. the ilo states parties are required to ensure that all victims have access to remedies (such as compensation) and that the competent authorities are authorised not to prosecute victims for illegal activities which they have been forced to commit against their will. the european parliament must therefore ratify the 2014 protocol on the protection of victims of trafficking as soon as possible, and recommend that the member states ratify it as soon as possible in order to finally put an end to a phenomenon that is, in all respects, a disgrace to humanity.
in writing. ‒ yes, the forced labour convention is one of the eight core ilo conventions (they constitute the core international labour standards). it sets out the basic human rights. this protocol aims to fill implementation gaps and to make more effective the prevention of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of labour exploitation and the protection and compensation of victims of forced labour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the text to authorise member states to ratify the 2014 protocol to the 1930 forced labour convention, which strengthens the prevention of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of exploitation and ensures the protection and compensation of victims of forced labour. among the most important provisions is the obligation for states to develop a national action plan to combat forced labour effectively, by taking measures to ensure that legislation on the prevention of forced labour applies to all workers and in every sector of the economy. in particular, the rules aim to protect people, especially migrant workers, from potentially abusive and fraudulent recruitment and placement practices, thereby addressing the root causes of forced labour risks. this protocol is therefore intended to safeguard fundamental rights and to strengthen the fight against trafficking in human beings. its ratification is a major step forward in the fight against criminal organizations throughout europe, and that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ the vote was in favour of the decision authorising member states to ratify the protocol to the ilo convention on forced labour, and in particular reference was made to certain specific articles relating to judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the authorization of the union is necessary because there are eu competences in these matters and the states cannot therefore decide to join without prior authorization. i was therefore happy to offer my contribution to strengthen the fight against forced labour and to help its victims.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation under consideration concerning the draft council decision authorising eu member states to ratify the international labour organisation convention on forced labour on judicial cooperation in criminal matters. worldwide, the ilo estimates that some 21 million people are victims of forced labor today. it is therefore necessary for the ilo member states to work towards the elimination of forced labour, to provide adequate assistance to victims and to fight against traffickers. parliament welcomed the council's decision to ratify the protocol and called on the member states to do so as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution by mrs helga stevens, who presented a report stressing the need for decisive action to protect victims of forced labour. although the 1930 convention called on member states to prosecute those who exploit workers, today, more than 80 years later, at least 20.9 million people worldwide are victims of forced labor, according to ilo estimates. i believe it is absolutely necessary to limit and even eliminate the social scourge of exploitation in the workplace. in order to do so, i think we should take into account and support the rapporteur's proposal, which is that the protocol seeks to fill the gaps in the implementation of the 1930 convention and to make the prevention of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of exploiting labour and the protection and compensation of victims of forced labour more effective, including by obliging the ilo member states to draw up a national policy for the total elimination of exploitation.
in writing. ‒ the 2014 protocol to the ilo convention is an essential tool for updating the issue of labour exploitation. the purpose of the protocol is to fill existing gaps in the implementation of the convention and to make more effective the measures to prevent trafficking in human beings and the protection and compensation of victims of forced labour. i voted in favour of the recommendation because i believe that by ratifying the protocol, the member states can really help to reduce the crime of trafficking in human beings and exploitation in europe, which has negative repercussions not only for individuals but also for society and the whole economy.
in writing. ‒ the ilo convention on forced labour is one of the eight core ilo conventions which constitute the core international labour standards and is considered an essential human rights instrument. according to ilo estimates, at least 20.9 million people worldwide are victims of forced labor. the protocol aims to make the prevention of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of labour exploitation and the protection and compensation of victims of forced labour more effective. the protocol obliges ilo member states to develop a national policy and action plan for the effective and lasting elimination of forced labour and to adopt measures to implement the provisions of the protocol, and sets out measures to be taken by ilo member states to prevent forced labour and to protect persons, especially migrant workers, from potentially abusive and fraudulent recruitment and placement practices and to address the root causes of the risks of forced labour. for the reasons stated above, i can only vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the international labour organization (ilo) is the specialized agency of the united nations which aims to achieve social justice and universal recognition of human rights at work through the promotion of decent work in conditions of freedom, equality and security for all women and men. the ilo convention on forced labour is an essential instrument in the field of human rights. at its adoption in 1930, the acceding states committed themselves to ending the use of forced labour as soon as possible and to making its exploitation punishable by criminal penalties. according to ilo estimates, more than 80 years after its adoption, at least 20.9 million people worldwide are victims of forced labor. the new protocol aims to fill implementation gaps and make the prevention of labour exploitation and the protection and compensation of victims of forced labour more effective. the original convention on forced labour entered into force almost a century ago, and it is regrettable that millions of people around the world are still subject to forced labour, which is why i have decided to vote in favour of ratifying the protocol.
in writing. the international labour organisation convention on forced labour, adopted in 1930, is one of the eight fundamental conventions of the ilo. the ilo is a specialized agency of the united nations that promotes human rights and social justice, and sets basic international labour standards. the ilo estimates that some 21 million people worldwide are subjected to forced labor. this report authorises the member states to ratify, in the interest of the union, the ilo protocol of 2014. this protocol aims to strengthen judicial cooperation in order to combat trafficking in human beings, labour exploitation and the protection and compensation of victims of forced labour. the accession countries are required to draw up an action plan aimed at eliminating forced labour while protecting the most vulnerable sections of the population from systematic exploitation. the proposals for council decisions will therefore authorise member states to ratify the sections of the protocol falling within the union's competence and recommend that they commit themselves to do so by the end of 2016. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the above proposal for a council decision as it gives member states the authority to ratify the protocol in certain areas, thus closing the gaps in the implementation of the ilo convention. supporting the ratification of this protocol is an important signal of europe's commitment to combating trafficking in human beings and victims of forced labour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this protocol which aims to close the gaps in implementation and make the prevention of trafficking in human beings more effective.
in writing. with today's vote, the european parliament gives the green light to accession to this important convention, allowing the european union to strengthen its role as a global actor committed to a fairer and more just framework, starting with a more secure and advanced legal framework to protect labour rights and in particular the fight against and prevention of discrimination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the draft council decision authorising the member states to ratify, in the interest of the european union, the protocol of 2014 to the forced labour convention, 1930 of the international labour organisation, as regards articles 1 to 4 of the protocol as regards judicial cooperation in criminal matters. i am firmly convinced that the ilo convention on forced labour is an expression of invaluable human rights. i therefore believe that the use of forced labour must be stopped as a matter of urgency. already in 1930 the member states were urged to do so, but eighty years later millions of people around the world are still victims of this phenomenon. the protocol aims to protect all workers, especially those in the most difficult situations, such as migrants and minors, through the adoption of effective and efficient measures to ensure that victims of forced labour are not prosecuted but rather have a right of redress and compensation. only through the ratification of the parts of the protocol in the areas of eu competence can it be hoped that by the end of 2016 the fight against forced labour will be able to make effective all those rights denied to victims that affect the entire eu.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs stevens' recommendation. the ilo convention on forced labour of 1930 is universally considered a landmark document in the history of human rights protection, as it prohibits forced labour and its rules provide that this phenomenon must be punishable by criminal law. the protocol under vote aims to overcome the shortcomings in the implementation of the convention and to make the prevention of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of exploiting labour and the protection and compensation of victims of forced labour more effective.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify the 2014 protocol to the forced labour convention of 1930 of the international labour organisation, in relation to articles 1 to 4 of the protocol as regards judicial cooperation in criminal matters. i consider it of paramount importance to develop an effective action plan for the elimination of forced labour, in order to prevent trafficking in human beings, to protect workers from abusive and fraudulent practices, and to compensate victims of forced labour. education and training are useful tools to ensure that the rights of victims of crime are respected across europe.
in writing. ‒ the 2014 protocol amending the ilo forced labour convention, 1930, aims to fill the gaps in the implementation of the ilo forced labour convention and to make more effective the measures to prevent trafficking in human beings for the purpose of labour exploitation and those relating to the protection and compensation of victims of forced labour. in view of the ilo's numerical estimates of the number of victims of these practices (a total of 20.9 million people) and the crimes against which the protocol intends to act (crimes affecting not only individuals but the whole economy), i have decided to support this document, which merely welcomes the council's decision to authorise the member states to ratify the parts of the protocol in question which fall within community competence.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour of this recommendation because the objective of this protocol is to remedy the shortcomings in the implementation of legislation and to strengthen the prevention of trafficking in human beings, labour exploitation, protection and compensation for victims of forced labour. all countries belonging to the international labour organization will now have to work to eradicate the unjust and harmful practice of forced labour completely. parliament welcomed the council's decision to ratify the protocol and called on the member states to do so as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the eu has always been committed to promoting human rights and decent work and to eradicating human trafficking, both internally and in its external relations. the new protocol to the ilo convention on forced labour aims to intensify the fight against this terrible violation of human rights and to adapt it to the challenges of the 21st century. all eu member states have ratified the basic labour standards, but for the member states to ratify the protocol, authorisation from the council is required, as parts of it fall within the eu's competence. the report therefore welcomes the council's decision to authorize ratification and proposes that parliament give its consent. in the light of the foregoing, i have decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ considering that the authorisation of the european union is necessary in order to make applicable to member states the legal obligations contained in the 2014 protocol to the forced labour convention of 1930, and considering also that the need to protect fundamental rights is an essential pillar of union action, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the ilo convention on forced labour is one of the eight core ilo conventions which constitute the core international labour standards and is considered an essential human rights instrument. the aim of the protocol is to make the prevention of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of exploiting labour more effective and to protect and compensate victims of forced labour. the ratification of the protocol by the member states will contribute to the fight against traffickers. the report welcomes the council's decision and proposes that parliament give its consent. i believe that its ratification is an important step towards greater protection of the rights of victims of crime throughout europe and, above all, towards intensifying the fight against human traffickers. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision authorising the member states of the european union to ratify the international labour organisation's convention on forced labour on judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the member states of the ilo must develop an action plan to eliminate all forms of forced labour, provide effective assistance to victims and punish traffickers.
in writing. ‒ a new protocol to the international labour organisation (ilo) convention on forced labour was adopted in june 2014. the purpose of this protocol is to make more effective the prevention of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of exploiting labour and the protection and compensation of victims of forced labour. i have therefore decided to give my support to the draft legislative resolution authorising member states to ratify, in the interest of the european union, the ilo protocol on forced labour of 2014 as regards judicial cooperation in criminal matters. in the context of respect for fundamental rights, i believe it is of paramount importance to implement ad hoc measures for the protection, identification and rehabilitation of victims of forced labour, thus ensuring more appropriate and effective forms of support and assistance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify, in the interest of the european union, the 2014 protocol to the international labour organisation's forced labour convention. the convention is one of the eight core ilo conventions which constitute the basic international labour standards and is considered an essential human rights instrument, as it protects all workers, including migrant workers, who are often the most exposed to exploitation and forced labour. the convention requires the acceding states to put an end to the use of forced labour and to make such exploitation punishable by criminal penalties. the protocol aims to fill implementation gaps and make more effective the prevention of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of labour exploitation and the protection and compensation of victims of forced labour, by promoting greater judicial cooperation in criminal matters. despite the fact that the original convention was adopted almost a century ago, it is sad to note that forced labor in the world is still present in the world for millions of people. it is all the more important to enable states to ratify this additional instrument in order to give effect to the protection rules laid down in the convention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision subjecting 4-methylamphetamine to control measures, as it is a component used to date to synthesise chemical drugs and psychotropic substances, and i believe that its use should be subject to stricter controls in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i am convinced that, taking into account all the information we have (cases of death, limited therapeutic use, etc.) concerning 4-methylamphetamine, it may be useful to subject it to control measures throughout the union.
in writing. ‒ yes, these four reports regulate the control of new substances or substances already used as chemical components for drugs or similar new substances. parliament's approval is being sought for more controls on these substances.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the introduction of control measures on 4-methylamphetamine, which is a synthetic derivative of amphetamine sold on the illicit market and on the internet, where this substance has been detected in a commercial product. the physical effects of the use of this substance are not yet well known, but the few available reports speak of negative stimulant effects including hyperthermia, hypertension, anorexia, nausea, palpitations, insomnia, paranoia, anxiety and depression. it should also be noted that its combination with other amphetamines or with caffeine may result in a higher risk of overall toxicity. 4-methylamphetamine has no established or recognised medical value and, apart from its use as an analytical reference standard and for scientific research, no other applications for this substance are available. the trade in 4-methylamphetamine within the union must be subject to control measures and that is why i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ the scientific committee of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) has assessed the risks of the new psychoactive substance 4-methylamphetamine. on the basis of that report, the commission invites member states to subject this new substance to control measures throughout the union. i voted in favour of the resolution because i consider the fight against drugs to be a fundamental issue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council decision to subject 4-methylamphetamine to control measures. during the debate, the european commission and the council stressed the dangers of this substance and the need to control it, also in view of the number of deaths and poisonings caused by it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i fully agree with the council's decision to subject the substances 4-methyl-5- (((4-methylphenyl) -4,5-dihydroxyazol-2-amine ((4,4'-dmar) and 1-cyclohexyl-4- ((1,2-diphenylethyl) -piperazine to control measures. i am not an expert, but i have found that these new substances have caused a significant number of deaths and intoxications and that further tests are therefore needed to ensure the safety of european citizens. finally, thanks to the report by mr michał boni, it has become clear how dangerous these new substances are for human beings, and the european union cannot remain silent on these important health issues.
in writing. ‒ 4-methylamphetamine is a very powerful stimulant that is addictive. it is used in the medical field for specialised prescriptions, but the circulation of this product should be monitored in order to avoid illicit and inappropriate trade and use of the chemical compound. prolonged and excessive use of methyl amphetamine has been found to cause severe brain damage in users. i therefore approve the draft council decision which aims to implement control measures on the circulation of 4-methylamphetamine in the member states of the european union.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with council decision 2005/387/jha on the exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new psychoactive substances, the scientific committee of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) has assessed the risks of the new psychoactive substance methyl amphetamine. on the basis of this report, the commission is calling on the member states to subject this new substance to control measures throughout the union, so i can only vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of more controls on the substances in question.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of parliament's opinion on the draft council implementing decision subjecting 4-methylamphetamine, a synthetic derivative of amphetamine, to control measures. the risks associated with this substance are lethal, and in four member states there have been 21 deaths in which autopsy results showed traces of this substance. 4-methylmethamphetamine sold in powder, tablet and liquid form has even appeared in e-commerce and distributed as amphetamine. as this substance has no known, proven or recognised therapeutic properties or uses in the union, and is already controlled in ten member states, i very much hope that the remaining member states will subject this substance to control measures in order to avoid problems in law enforcement and judicial cooperation at cross-border level. finally, only control measures at union level can help to prevent the substance in question from developing as an alternative to amphetamine on the markets for illicit drugs.
in writing. 4-methylanfetamine is a synthetic derivative of amphetamine, methylated to the aromatic ring, which occurs mainly in seized samples as a powder or paste in combination with amphetamine or caffeine, but has also been observed in tablet and liquid form. as it is similar to amphetamine in its effects, i believe that continuity of control measures must be ensured, preventing it from becoming an alternative to amphetamine on the markets for illegal drugs.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision subjecting 4-methylamphetamine to control measures. this stimulant substance has no known, proven or recognised therapeutic properties or uses in the european union and poses serious risks to the health of citizens. the introduction of control measures for these substances throughout europe is important to prevent the serious harm caused by their use or development and is a key response to the emergence of new harmful substances.
in writing. ‒ the debate between the european commission and the european council showed how 4-methylamphetamine has caused a huge number of deaths and intoxications. the report by mr michał boni reflects a real awareness of the dangers that these substances could cause in the absence of adequate control measures. i therefore decided to support the document with a favourable vote.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour of this report because 4-methylamphetamine is a psychotropic substance which, without proper control, is potentially dangerous. during the debate, the european commission and the council drew the attention of those present to the significant number of people who have been poisoned or even died as a result of taking this substance. i therefore believe that it is necessary for national legislation in this field to be implemented by community regulations.
in writing. ‒ the application of the 4-methylamphetamine decision would ensure the continuity and extension of control measures across member states on new substances. during the debate the commission and the council stressed that the new substances have caused a large number of deaths and intoxications. as the report supports the position of the two institutions on the dangers of these new substances and the need for controls, i have decided to support it by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ in view of the rapporteur's work and in order to thank him for his work, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ to date, the council decision on the exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new narcotic drugs and new synthetic drugs has proved to be a useful tool for member states. during the debate in the libe committee, the european commission and the council stressed that methamphetamine has already caused a large number of deaths and intoxications. the report supports the position of the two institutions, agreeing on the dangerousness of this new substance and the need for greater controls. i therefore support its approval by parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council's decision to subject 4-methylamphetamine, a stimulant substance considered by the european union to be dangerous to the health of citizens, to control measures.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the draft council implementing decision subjecting 4-methylamphetamine to control measures. a psychotic substance, natural or synthetic, that affects the nervous system and causes stimulant or depressive effects, just like illicit drugs. the procedure voted today provides for a ban on the manufacture and marketing of these substances and also for criminal sanctions throughout europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision subjecting 5-aminopropylindole to control measures, as it is a component used to synthesise drugs and psychotropic substances, and i believe that its use should be subject to stricter controls.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i am convinced that, taking into account all the information we have (cases of death, limited therapeutic use, etc.) on 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole, it may be useful to subject it to control measures throughout the union.
in writing. ‒ yes, these four reports cover the control of new substances or substances already used as chemical components for drugs or similar new substances. the commission is asking parliament to approve more controls on these substances.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of introducing control measures on 5- (((2aminopropyl) indole, which is a stimulant with possible hallucinogenic effects, available for sale on the internet and in specialist shops as a 'research chemical'. no studies have yet been published assessing its acute and chronic toxicity, psychological and behavioural effects or potential for addiction, but we are aware of the acute toxicity of this substance, which can cause harmful effects in humans, such as tachycardia, hyperthermia, midriasis, agitation and tremor. if this new psychoactive substance were to become available on a wider scale, the implications for individual and public health could be considerable. in view of the health and social risks and the lack of therapeutic properties or uses, 5- (((2-aminopropyl) indole should therefore be subjected to control measures.
in writing. ‒ the scientific committee of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) has assessed the risks of the new psychoactive substance 5-ammino-2-propylindole. on the basis of that report, the commission invites member states to subject that new substance to control measures throughout the union. i voted in favour of the resolution because i consider the fight against drugs to be a fundamental issue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council decision to subject the substance 5-{-aminopropyl) indole to control measures. during the debate, the european commission and the council stressed the dangers of this substance and the need to control it, also in view of the number of deaths and poisonings caused by it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because i fully agree with the council's decision to subject the substance 5-{-aminopropyl) indole to control measures, as it is considered by mr barrio's report to be dangerous and toxic to humans. in addition, this drug is listed as an indole derivative with stimulant effects and is openly sold as a drug by online sellers since 2011. daily use of the drug can lead to elevated heart rate, anorexia, diuresis and mild hypothermia for about twelve hours. finally, i fully agree with the position expressed by the european commission and the european council that this drug should be subjected to additional controls because it has caused a significant number of deaths and people being poisoned, and i believe that the european union must give priority to the protection of its citizens.
in writing. ‒ the data available to the european commission and the european council show that these substances have caused a high number of deaths and intoxications. i am in full support of the proposal in question in this respect, stressing the need to implement controls on these substances.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with council decision 2005/387/jha on the exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new psychoactive substances, the scientific committee of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) has assessed the risks of the new psychoactive substance. on the basis of this report, the commission is calling on the member states to subject this new substance to control measures throughout the union, so i can only vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of more controls on the substances in question.
in writing. 5- (((2 amminopropyl) indole (5-it) is an indole derivative that can be interpreted as a positional isomer of alpha-methyltryptamine (amt), but does not belong to the chemical group of tryptamines. it has been identified as the main cause of death in many cases. i therefore believe that continuity of control measures should be ensured. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision subjecting 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole to control measures. this substance, which can have hallucinogenic effects, has, in most cases, harmful effects on humans. i therefore believe that it is necessary to subject this substance to control measures in the european union, thus helping to protect citizens from the risks caused by its consumption.
in writing. ‒ i consider it necessary that 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole be subject to strict control measures within each member state, in order to reduce the impact on mortality that it could cause if it continues to be excluded from a suitable surveillance system. it is in the light of this that i have decided to vote in favour of this report, which approves of greater controls on the substances mentioned above.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the council decision on 5-[2-aminopropyl]indol because, on the basis of the evidence and information available to date, i consider it right that this psychoactive substance should be subject to control measures throughout the european union.
in writing. ‒ the application of the decision on 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole would ensure the continuity and extension of control measures across member states on new substances. during the debate the commission and the council stressed that the new substances have caused a large number of deaths and intoxications. as the report supports the position of the two institutions on the dangers of these new substances and the need for controls, i have decided to support it favourably.
in writing. ‒ in view of the work of the rapporteur and in order to thank her for her work, i have decided to vote in favour of the draft.
in writing. ‒ the council decision on the rapid exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new narcotic drugs and new synthetic drugs has already proved to be a useful tool for member states in the fight against drug trafficking. i believe that the aim of community legislation should be to ensure continuity of control measures across the member states by facilitating the flow of information and supranational cooperation in the social and health field. i therefore decided to support the rapporteur's proposal by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council decision to subject 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole, a substance which may have hallucinogenic effects and is considered harmful to human health, to control measures. the commission and the council have pointed out that this substance has caused a large number of deaths and poisonings.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the draft council implementing decision subjecting 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole to control measures. a psychotic substance, natural or synthetic, that affects the nervous system and causes stimulant or depressive effects, just like illicit drugs. the procedure voted today provides for a ban on the manufacture and marketing of these substances and also for criminal sanctions throughout europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council implementing decision subjecting the substances 4-iodine-2,5-dimethoxy-n-{2-methoxybenzyl) phenethylamine (25i-nbome), 3,4-dichloro-n-[{1-{dimethylamine) cycloesyl) methyl]benzamide (ah-7921), 3,4-methylenedioxypyrovalerone (mdpv) and 2-{-ethylamine) -2-{3-methoxyphenyl) cycloesane (methoxyethylamine) to control measures. i believe that in order to combat the proliferation of synthetic drugs in europe, we must increase controls on substances, including new substances, which can be used to synthesise psychotropic substances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i am convinced that, taking into account all the information we have (cases of death, limited therapeutic utility, etc.) concerning 25i-nbome, ah-7921, 3mdpv and methoxyetamine, it may be useful to subject them to control measures throughout the union.
in writing. - i vote for it. these four reports govern the control of new or currently used substances as chemical parts for drugs or similar new substances. the commission is asking parliament to approve more controls on these substances.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the introduction of control measures on 25i-nbome (a powerful synthetic derivative of a classic serotonergic hallucinogen), ah-7921 (a synthetic opioid analgesic), 3mdpv (a synthetic derivative of cathinone) and methoxyetamine (a substance chemically similar to ketamine and phencyclidine). these substances have no therapeutic properties for human or veterinary use. in view of the health risks they pose, trade in those substances within the union should be subject to control measures in order to ensure the protection of human health and to avoid adverse consequences for public health. i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ the scientific committee of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) has assessed the risks of the new psychoactive substances 4-iodine-2,5-dimethoxy-n-2-methoxybenzyl-phenethylamine (25i-nbome), 3,4-dichloro-n-[1-dimethylamino) cyclohexyl) methyl]benzamide (ah-7921), 3,4-methylenedioxypirovalerone (mdpv) and 2-[ethylamino]-2-[3-methoxyphenethylamine] cyclohexanone (methoxyet). on the basis of that report, the commission invites member states to subject those new substances to control measures throughout the union. i voted in favour of the resolution because i consider the fight against drugs to be a fundamental issue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council decision to subject 25i-nbome, ah-7921, 3mdpv and methoxyetamine to control measures. during the debate, the european commission and the council stressed the dangers of these substances and the need to control them, also in view of the number of deaths and poisonings caused by them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft because i fully agree with the council's decision to subject 251-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxyetamine to control measures and i believe that they are dangerous and harmful to those who use them. in addition, 251-nbome has been shown to have effects similar to lsd and the other substances, on reporting of cases to the emergency department following intoxication, may have side effects such as: tachycardia, hypertension, agitation, aggressiveness, convulsions, hyperpyrexia, elevated white blood cell counts and acute renal impairment. in conclusion, i believe that additional measures for these medicines are both necessary and vital, especially in view of the role the european union plays in protecting the health of its citizens.
in writing. ‒ i fully agree with the need to intensify controls on these drugs, as according to the data presented by the european commission and the european council, they are responsible for the high number of deaths and intoxications in europe.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with council decision 2005/387/jha on the exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new psychoactive substances, the scientific committee of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) has assessed the risks of new psychoactive substances. on the basis of this report, the commission is calling on the member states to subject these new substances to control measures throughout the union, so i can only vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of more controls on the substances in question.
in writing. the decision of the council of the european union of 25 september 2014 subjects 25i-nbome, ah-7921, 3mdpv and methoxyetamine to control measures, in view of the health risks and the lack of therapeutic properties or uses of these substances. the high alert level for the registration of deaths in europe following the ingestion of these substances leads me to vote in favour, as it is necessary to ensure the continuity of control measures.
in writing. ‒ i believe that control measures should be introduced throughout the european union for 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxyetamine. these substances cause serious harm to the health of citizens and many of them can be taken unknowingly, without therapeutic uses, and can be produced without the use of sophisticated equipment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision to subject to control measures the substances 4-iodine-2,5-dimethoxy-n-{2-methoxybenzyl) phenethylamine (25i-nbome), 3,4-dichloro-n-[{1-{dimethylamine) cycloethyl]methyl]benzamide (ah-7921), 3,4-methylenedioxypyrovalerone (mdpv) and 2-{-ethylamine) -2-{3-methoxyphenyl) cyclohexane (methoxyethylamine). these are psychoactive substances whose harmful potential has been the subject of well-established studies carried out by the commission and the european council.
in writing. ‒ the application of the decisions on 25i-nbome, ah-7921, 3mdpv and methoxyetamine would ensure the continuity and extension of control measures across member states on new substances. during the debate the commission and the council stressed that the new substances have caused a large number of deaths and intoxications. as the report supports the position of the two institutions on the dangers of these new substances and the need for controls, i have decided to support it favourably.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for his work and i express my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the council decision on the rapid exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new narcotic drugs and new synthetic drugs establishes a new three-step procedure. this procedure allows a new psychoactive substance to be subject to control measures in the european union. i am in favour of the approval of this report, which aims to subject 251-nbome, ah-7921, 3mdpv and methoxyetamine to the strictest control measures required by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council's decision to subject to control measures substances considered harmful and dangerous to human health such as: 251-nbome, ah-7921, 3mdpv and methoxyetamine. the european union has always been concerned about the health of its citizens and it is right that the european parliament should express its opinion on this.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the draft council implementing decision subjecting to control measures substances such as: -methyl-5- (((4-methylphenyl) -4,5-dihydroxyazol-2-amine ((4,4'-dmar) and 1-cyclohexyl-4- ((1,2-diphenylethyl) -piperazine (mt-45). they are psychotic substances, natural or synthetic, that affect the nervous system and cause either stimulating or depressing effects, just like illicit drugs. the procedure voted today provides for a ban on the manufacture and marketing of these substances and also for criminal sanctions throughout europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the boni report because i believe that increased controls on substances that can be used to synthesise synthetic drugs in europe are essential to combating proliferation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i am convinced that, taking into account all the evidence we have (cases of death, limited therapeutic utility, etc.) concerning 4,4'-dmar and mt-45, it may be useful to subject them to control measures throughout the union.
in writing. - i vote for it. these four reports govern the control of new or currently used substances as chemical parts for drugs or similar new substances. the commission is asking parliament to approve more controls on these substances.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the introduction of control measures on the substances described in the report (4,4'-dmar and mt-45) as they have no therapeutic properties for human or veterinary use and there is no other evidence that they are used for other purposes. 4,4'-dmar is a derivative of two synthetic stimulants that have already been subject to control measures, and it appeared on the market for new psychoactive substances as a 'research chemical' first in retail on the internet, then also on the street, often disguised as ecstasy or amphetamine. fortunately, it seems that its use would not be widespread. mt-45 has been on the drug market since october 2013 and is characterised by acute toxicity far exceeding that of morphine. in view of the health risks they pose, trade in these substances within the union must be subject to control measures and i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ the scientific committee of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) has assessed the risks of the new psychoactive substances 4-methyl-5- ((4-methylphenyl) -4,5-dihydroxyazol-2-amine ((4,4'-dmar) and 1-cyclohexyl-4- ((1,2-diphenylethyl) -piperazine (mt-45). on the basis of that report, the commission invites member states to subject those new substances to control measures throughout the union. i voted in favour of the resolution because i consider the fight against drugs to be a fundamental issue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council decision to subject 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 to control measures. during the debate, the european commission and the council stressed the dangers of these substances and the need to control them, also in view of the number of deaths and poisonings caused by them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i fully agree with the council's decision to subject 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 to control measures as medicines which have caused numerous deaths and poisonings. furthermore, mt-45 has been shown to have about 80% of the potency of morphine and an opioid form. it has also been used as a carrier from which a large family of potent opioid drugs has been developed, and repeated use of mt-45 has been associated with hearing loss and loss of consciousness. finally, 4,4'-dmar is a psychostimulant and empathogenic drug detected in the netherlands in december 2012 that caused numerous fatalities in hungary, the netherlands and northern ireland. the european union must safeguard the health of its citizens, so new and more detailed analyses of these medicines are more than legitimate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision which proposes to subject four drugs which cause serious harm to the health of their users to increased control measures. on the basis of the information made available by the european commission and the council, a risk assessment analysis has been carried out and it has been concluded that the toxicity of the substances concerned is such that their consumption may cause serious harm to human health. in addition, the risks are aggravated by the fact that, according to the information provided, some people would sometimes unknowingly take these substances in combination with or as an alternative to other psychoactive substances. i therefore believe that it is of great importance to increase controls on the trade and distribution of these substances. in this connection, i would remind you that the purpose of this proposal for a council decision is to urge the member states to subject 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 to control measures and to apply the criminal sanctions provided for in their respective legislation, in accordance with the obligations laid down in the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with council decision 2005/387/jha on the exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new psychoactive substances, the scientific committee of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) has assessed the risks of new psychoactive substances (mt-45). on the basis of that report, the commission invites member states to subject those new substances to control measures throughout the union. for obvious reasons i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ given the importance and urgency of the issue in terms of public health and safety, i voted in favour of the four legislative acts, so that we can avoid and prevent the spread of the listed harmful substances in europe.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of more controls on the substances in question.
in writing. the psychoactive substance mt-45 is a synthetic opioid with a single structure, while the substance 4,4'-dmar is a derivative of aminorex and 4-methylaminorex (4-mar), two synthetic stimulants subject to control measures under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances. both are present on the european union drug market and have been shown to cause or be associated with a number of deaths, together with other substances. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on the draft council implementing decision subjecting 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 to control measures. i believe that it is appropriate to introduce control measures in the european union on these substances, to study the health and social risks they pose, and thus to avoid obstacles to crossborder law enforcement and judicial cooperation and to protect european citizens from the risks these substances could pose.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this report, as i fully share the need to ensure the effectiveness of surveillance and control systems within the member states for the substances covered by this document.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour of the introduction of control measures on the substances described in the report (4,4'-dmar and mt-45) as they represent potentially dangerous elements as they can be used for the development of drugs. 4,4'-dmar is a derivative of two synthetic stimulants, and it has appeared on the online market among the so-called 'legal drugs'; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the drugs problem.
in writing. ‒ in view of the work done by the rapporteur and in order to thank him, i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ council decision 2005/387/jha provides that a new psychoactive substance may be subject to control measures in the european union. in view of this, i am in favour of giving the member states the opportunity to subject the substances 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 to a more careful assessment of the damage they cause to human health. i also think it would be desirable to have a complete picture of the criminal sanctions that may be provided for by the respective national laws.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council decision to subject 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 to control measures because they are considered dangerous to human health. the debate between the commission and the council has shown that these substances have caused a large number of deaths and poisonings.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the draft council implementing decision subjecting substances such as 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 to control measures. these are psychotic substances, natural or synthetic, which affect the nervous system and produce stimulant or depressive effects, just like illicit drugs. the procedure voted today provides for a ban on the manufacture and marketing of these substances and also for criminal sanctions throughout europe.
in writing. ‒ i welcome today's vote on the need to control 4,4'-dmar and mt-45. the presence of these substances in many fatalities calls for further research into the health risks posed by these substances, given their already widespread use both in the internet market and on the street. with this decision, it is now necessary for the member states to take the necessary measures, in accordance with their national laws, to subject these psychoactive substances to control measures.
in writing. ‒ in the first months of 2015, bulgaria and greece were hit by severe floods classified as major natural disasters. the vote will allocate eur 16 million for reconstruction and support for the affected populations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe it is essential that the union shows its solidarity, especially with those countries and regions that have been affected by major natural disasters. it is therefore our duty to help the citizens and governments of greece and bulgaria who suffered enormous damage from the floods which hit them earlier this year.
in writing. ‒ in january and february 2015, some regions of greece and bulgaria were affected by heavy rains, snowfall, floods and landslides. these events caused extensive damage to public infrastructure (schools, dams, telecommunications networks and roads), private homes and businesses (hundreds of buildings were flooded), as well as damage to agriculture and forests from mudslides, landslides and landslides. the exceptional nature and gravity of the situation have necessitated the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, from which an advance of 10% of the planned amount has been paid. parliament must approve the mobilisation of the fund to allocate the amounts envisaged by the commission as emergency aid to the affected regions as soon as possible, since the rapidity of the institutional response to a flood intervention is essential for the resumption of economic activities and the normal conduct of the daily activities of the citizens.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund for bulgaria and greece for a total amount of approximately eur 16 million. the bulgarian authorities have confirmed that the floods and heavy snowfall in february 2015 have been classified as a major natural disaster. in greece, however, floods occurred at the same time in the central and western regions and in evros. the amount of approximately 16 million is divided as follows: 6.4 for bulgaria and 9.9 for greece. everything suggests that the procedure was followed correctly and, in accordance with what has been done for disasters affecting our territories, the lega nord delegation votes in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide financial assistance in connection with the disasters in bulgaria and greece in early 2015. large areas in the south-eastern region of bulgaria have been affected by heavy rains, snowfall, floods and landslides, bringing the country's agricultural and forestry sectors to their knees. at the same time, widespread flooding in northern greece has washed away public buildings, businesses and private homes, destroying farms, warehouses and crops and severely damaging water and sewerage infrastructure in several areas of the country. in parallel, many areas of central and western greece suffered another series of floods that caused even greater damage, even destroying part of the greek cultural heritage. i believe that the european union must show solidarity with the member states affected by these disasters. i therefore voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide aid to bulgaria and greece.
in writing. ‒ this is the request to mobilise the solidarity fund to help the areas of bulgaria and greece hard hit by the weather events of early 2015. they were affected by heavy rains, snowfall, floods and landslides, causing damage estimated at around eur 250 million in bulgaria and around eur 400 million in greece. i certainly voted in favour of the mobilisation of the fund so that the union can go to the aid of the affected populations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for greece and bulgaria. the fund enables the eu to respond quickly and effectively to emergency situations, thus demonstrating its solidarity with people affected by natural disasters. bulgaria submitted an application due to damage caused by adverse winter conditions, while greece submitted two applications in relation to severe flooding affecting some of its particularly disadvantaged regions. bulgaria has estimated the damage at some eur 243 million and will receive aid totalling eur 6 377 815, while greece, which has suffered damage of eur 395 million, will receive aid totalling eur 9 896 950. the fund will mobilise a total of eur 16 274 765. after deducting the 10 percent advance already paid, the balance to be paid is eur 14 647 288.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that, in accordance with the objectives of the european union, it is lawful to mobilise the european union solidarity fund and to grant financial assistance to greece for the floods in the evros region and other western regions, and to bulgaria for the adverse winter conditions. in addition, these events caused, in the bulgarian case, considerable damage to public infrastructure, such as dams, communication networks and roads, and to private businesses, homes and businesses. the bulgarian authorities have, in addition, estimated total direct damage at eur 243,305 million. finally, i fully agree with the allocation of funds to the greek cause, because the floods have caused damage to the basic infrastructure, to the businesses, to greek agriculture, destroying agricultural infrastructure, warehouses and crops.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the commission's proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund in response to the requests for assistance submitted by bulgaria and greece following the natural disasters that occurred in the first months of 2015. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000. in addition, natural disasters have had a dramatic impact on local economies, communities and the environment. i therefore agreed with mr novakov's report, considering that the two countries concerned are among the least developed regions for which european structural and investment funds are provided.
in writing. ‒ this is the request to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) in relation to two disasters that took place in bulgaria and greece in early 2015. in late january and early february, large areas of bulgaria, especially the south-eastern region, were affected by heavy rains, snowfall, floods and landslides, causing damage estimated at around eur 250 million. the greek authorities estimated the damage at about eur 400 million. the report proposes to allocate some eur 10 million to greece and eur 6 million to bulgaria to try to help these areas so badly affected by severe natural phenomena. i am voting in favour of this because it is a special financial instrument which should demonstrate the solidarity of the european union, although the rules, the way and the timing of the use of the fund are not optimal as it is available up to a maximum of eur 500 million a year.
in writing. ‒ in late january and early february 2015, large areas of bulgaria were affected by heavy rains, snowfall, flooding and landslides. these events have damaged public and private infrastructure and caused damage to the agricultural sector. in greece, during the same period, widespread flooding damaged businesses, buildings and infrastructure and temporarily isolated some mountain settlements. for these reasons i have welcomed the european commission's proposal to mobilise the solidarity fund to provide financial assistance to bulgaria and greece, countries affected by these violent natural phenomena.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for bulgaria and greece. the proposal will not involve any change to the 2015 budget, as it will be financed entirely by reallocating appropriations already available; i also believe that we must endorse and support the principles and objectives of the eusf.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund for bulgaria and greece totalling some eur 16 million for flood disasters.
in writing. the disasters in bulgaria and greece respectively caused severe damage to public infrastructure, communication networks, roads, businesses, homes and private activities. the emergency situation requires timely intervention and, taking into account that the applications fulfil the conditions for granting support from the fund as provided for in regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, i have decided to give a favourable opinion on that report. in the context of the economic crisis we are currently experiencing, we have repeatedly stressed the importance and effectiveness of a tool such as the solidarity fund, which is able to provide support in the event of disasters and tragedies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr novakov on the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in support of bulgaria and greece. i believe it is the responsibility of this parliament and the european institutions to respond to natural disasters and to express european solidarity with regions and countries affected by major disasters, given their scale and their profound impact on local communities and economies. the commission proposes to grant financial assistance to bulgaria and greece following heavy rains, floods and natural landslides in the first months of 2015. the aid in question, amounting to some eur 6 377 815 for bulgaria and some eur 9 896 950 for greece, is intended to cover part of the costs of emergency and rehabilitation measures and partly to help restore public infrastructure, water and electricity supplies, and to repair damage to businesses and farms to enable the area to recover.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has proposed to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for bulgaria and greece, both of which were hit by natural disasters in 2015. i am convinced that the european union has a duty to support its member states in their time of need, and i have therefore decided to support the proposal by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide financial assistance in connection with the disasters in bulgaria and greece in early 2015. the european union solidarity fund was set up for such events: large areas in the south-eastern region of bulgaria were affected by heavy rain, snowfall, flooding and landslides; while widespread flooding has bent down farms in central greece. i believe that the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide eur 16 million in aid to bulgaria and greece is not only a demonstration of the capacity of the eu institutions but also a gesture of fraternity between the member states.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the eusf to provide financial assistance in relation to a disaster in bulgaria and two disasters in greece that occurred in the first months of 2015. after deducting 10% of the already paid advances (eur 637,782 for bulgaria and eur 989,695 for greece), the balance to be paid is eur 14,647,288 (eur 5,740,033 of which for bulgaria and eur 8,907,255 for greece). as these appropriations will help the two countries to repair damage to public and private infrastructure, private homes, businesses, agriculture, the environment and cultural heritage, i have decided to support the report.
in writing. ‒ in view of the data on damage caused by natural disasters in greece and bulgaria, i consider the total amount of aid proposed necessary and appropriate. that is why i have decided to give my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european union has set up the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to respond to major natural disasters and to express its solidarity with the affected regions within the eu. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. i am in favour of allocating part of this amount (eur 6 377 815,00) to bulgaria, which was severely affected by heavy rains, snowfall, floods and landslides in january and february 2015 which caused considerable damage to public infrastructure. i am also in favour of the allocation of part of the eusf (eur 9.896.950) to greece, which has also been affected by two floods: the first in early february 2015 in eastern macedonia and thrace, which caused massive damage to basic infrastructure, public buildings, private homes, businesses and agriculture; the second, even more serious, hit central and western greece, causing power cuts and the destruction of part of the cultural heritage in this region. i hope that these sums will be of practical help to the people of these countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for greece and bulgaria. the european union expresses its solidarity with the people affected by natural disasters by providing financial support. the commission has already proposed an advance of eur 637 782 to bulgaria, corresponding to 10% of the contribution from the fund, in line with article 4a (2) of the regulation. the amount has already been used by the bulgarian government for the urgent rehabilitation of transport, drainage and safety and prevention infrastructure. the commission granted greece an amount of eur 989 695, equivalent to 10% of the financial contribution provided for by the eusf. after deduction of 10% of the advances already paid and after the ep's approval, the balance to be paid is eur 14 647 288.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the resolution on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to help with reconstruction following the natural disasters that struck bulgaria and greece in 2015. as has unfortunately already happened in the past in many member states, the solidarity fund appropriation will be used to cover part of the costs incurred by bulgaria and greece to repair the serious damage caused by the floods, heavy rains and other extreme weather events which hit the two countries of south-eastern europe earlier this year. they will therefore receive aid of eur 6.3 million and eur 9.9 million respectively to cover the costs of emergency and rescue operations and to cover part of the costs of rehabilitation in the disaster regions, in particular the rehabilitation of the transport and communication infrastructures affected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the novakov report on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) for bulgaria and greece, which were hit by severe natural disasters in early 2015. large areas of bulgaria were affected by heavy rains, snowfall, floods and landslides, with damage estimated at eur 250 million. floods in eastern macedonia and thrace caused damage of about 400 million euros. thanks to this report, eur 10 million will be allocated to these two countries through the eusf. in this way we can help those areas which have already been hit hard by the economic crisis, such as greece, by natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) in relation to two catastrophic situations that took place in early 2015 in bulgaria and greece. in late january and early february, large areas of bulgaria, especially the south-eastern region, were affected by heavy rains, snowfall, flooding and landslides, causing damage estimated at around eur 250 million. the greek authorities have also provided information on the financial situation of the greek banks, the financial situation of the greek banks and the financial situation of the greek banks. this report proposes to allocate some 10 million euros to greece and 6 million to bulgaria to try to help in some way these areas so badly affected by natural disasters. it should be stressed that the european union solidarity fund, despite the rules, the procedures and the timing which are not always optimal, remains a useful support, which shows the "solidarity" of the european union by financially supporting a member state, a country in the process of accession or a region affected by severe natural disasters.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have just approved the own-initiative report in which we ask the member states and the union to introduce an indication of origin for non-agricultural products, just as there are protected geographical indications for cheeses, meat and products of the earth. we would like to protect the excellent non-agricultural products we produce and process in europe and italy, products such as carrara marble, murano glass, slate, ceramics and many others. if such a system is introduced, it will help to combat counterfeiting and promote made in europe and the world. there is only one regret, the report calls for the inclusion of protected geographical indications to be subject to a fee. we demand that membership be free. however, given the importance of the subject, we voted in favour of the report here in the plenary.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i consider this measure which we have voted for today to be extremely important. i hope that the commission will act promptly and tenaciously to define an even more organic measure. i believe that this is something that links in particular italian history, a centuries-old history, to european manufacturing and therefore protection by geographical indication is going to make our small and medium-sized enterprises even more competitive as they face an increasingly global market which must have the quality assurance that italian enterprises attach to their products.
in writing. ‒ the possible extension of the protection of the typical geographical indications of the european union to non-agricultural products is a major step forward for the protection of traditional european high-quality products. protection is based on the need to preserve products which are the result of traditional knowledge and techniques and are characteristic of entire european regions. excellent products are constantly the victims of counterfeiting and fraud. in order to curb these phenomena, which are detrimental to both consumers and producers, i believe it is necessary to create a protected geographical indication, also for non-agricultural products, so as to provide adequate protection for both parties. european harmonisation is needed as some states do not offer specific protection while in others definitions and procedures are visible. in italy, for example, there is no such protection. in this connection i believe that a harmonized procedure should be completely free of charge without adding any additional burden to the undertakings. we have fought for this and we will continue to watch. for these reasons, my vote was in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the rozière report which calls on the commission to prepare a proposal to extend the system of quality certification to eu traditional and artisanal products not derived from agriculture. i believe that such legislation would give the excellences of our territories additional protection on the market, although the work of the commission will have to be closely monitored to avoid disorderly overlaps with the existing system in agriculture outlined and to ensure that this legislation is really effective.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report because the benefits of extending the protection of geographical indications to non-agricultural products are clear for italian smes and artisans, as well as for consumers in general. the report rightly points out that high-quality european traditional products are the result of traditional knowledge and techniques and represent a cultural heritage of the eu and an essential element to be preserved in the economic and social life of many european regions. however, i have doubts about the part where it is possible to require producers to pay a contribution for the registration of their product, even though it is specified that this contribution should be one-off, fair in relation to the costs incurred and applied in a uniform manner throughout the european union. i think the recording should be free.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i am convinced that extending the protection of geographical indications of the european union to non-agricultural products can foster innovation in traditional production processes and the creation of new start-ups for traditional products and also contribute to the sustainability of jobs created in underdeveloped areas, in particular by offering small and micro enterprises, which are responsible for about 80% of typical products produced locally that could be protected through the geographical indication system, the opportunity to increase sales through more effective marketing operations as well as an incentive to cooperate more, given the collective nature of the system.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of this important own-initiative report marks an important step forward for the protection of non-agricultural products and calls for action by the european commission to extend the legislation on agricultural geographical indications to these products. the eu member states are rich in non-agricultural products, based on traditional knowledge and production methods deeply rooted in the cultural and social heritage of many geographical regions. the introduction of a harmonised system of protection would be necessary to encourage the development of the european economy and culture, particularly in the less developed regions. protection of gi would be an innovation engine to protect the high quality of products while maintaining competitiveness and preserving knowledge that has been passed down through the generations.
in writing. - i vote for it. the initiative calls on the commission to prepare a proposal to extend the 'system' of quality certifications to eu non-agricultural traditional and craft products. the majority of the text is in agreement, but it does express a reservation about the possibility of the commission creating a disorderly overlap with the existing system in agriculture and outlined in the cap (wto, rural development, etc.). the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the budgetary resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the possible extension of the protection of geographical indications of the european union to non-agricultural products. high-quality european traditional products are the result of traditional knowledge and techniques and represent the eu's cultural heritage. in addition, they generate activities that have a direct link with local realities, particularly in rural areas, thus contributing to the overall attractiveness of a territory. today, however, there is a growing risk that traditional skills and trades will gradually disappear. consequently, the protection of geographical indications (gi) for non-agricultural products could provide an incentive to safeguard cultural heritage and traditional know-how. i therefore hope that, as indicated in the report adopted, the commission will present without delay a legislative proposal with the aim of establishing a single european system for the protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products.
in writing. ‒ the report considers that traditional european production should be protected not only and exclusively in relation to agricultural products. the quality of knowledge and techniques developed over time is a heritage that must be safeguarded in all areas, and parliament therefore welcomed the commission's initiative to extend the protection of eu geographical indications to non-agricultural products.
in writing. ‒ the european union has a rich range of quality non-agricultural products, which reflect the diversity of local characteristics, often handmade, and which constitute an immense cultural and economic heritage not only for the country of origin but for the union as a whole. the geographical indication (gi), currently reserved for products of agricultural origin, has helped to enhance the position of these products on international markets as they are considered safe and of high quality by consumers. the lack of a harmonised and consistent system of protection of gi for non-agricultural products at european level has so far undermined the eu's ability to negotiate trade agreements with third countries which, on the other hand, provide for all gi for non-agricultural products in their legislation. the possibility of extending gi's to non-agricultural products in europe, in addition to protecting our traditional productions, would strengthen the eu's negotiating capacity both bilaterally and multilaterally in the wto. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report and i join the call on the european commission to consider and submit legislative proposals as soon as possible for a uniform protection of european gi for non-agricultural products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the possible extension of the protection of geographical indications of the european union to non-agricultural products. geographical indications can have considerable economic potential and adequate protection can bring important benefits, especially for smes and for eu regions. europe has a real heritage of traditional skills and craftsmanship of the highest level. however, at european level, there is no uniform system for the geographical indications of non-agricultural products. the report welcomes the commission's proposal for a public consultation of stakeholders and calls for a legislative proposal on this subject, considers it necessary to establish at eu level a protection instrument for the manufacturing and craft sector, considers that such measures should be accompanied by information and communication measures and underlines the important benefits that the extension of the geographical indications of the european union to non-agricultural products will bring for consumers, producers and citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mrs virginie rozière's proposal because i believe that the extension of the gi to non-agricultural products is useful in many ways. geographical indications would effectively help to combat counterfeiting, fraudulent use of indications of origin and other unfair practices which, in addition to misleading the consumer, are particularly harmful to the niche companies which in various parts of europe produce those products which make each member state distinctive and valuable. i emphasize that the use of these specifications for non-agricultural products will also serve to assure the buyer that he has purchased a product with high-quality know-how and this would make each state stronger from a commercial point of view. i personally do not want to stifle traditions by protecting as much as possible these peculiarities which are different in each area of the eu, and that is why i feel i support the rapporteur.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this important own-initiative report. foodstuffs have already been protected by geographical indications since 1992. in this act parliament is asking the european commission to extend this protection to non-agricultural products, and i entirely agree with that for a number of reasons. firstly, because it supports local products and secondly because it encourages local employment: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns parliament's reaction to the publication of the commission's green paper entitled 'making the most of europe's traditional know-how: a possible extension of the protection of european union geographical indications to non-agricultural products'. these would be products rooted in the cultural and historical heritage of particular geographical locations, an essential element to be preserved in the economic and social life of many european regions. at present, at european level, protection of gi is provided for wines, alcoholic beverages, aromatised wines and agricultural and food products. there is no harmonisation in respect of the protection of gi for non-agricultural products. the report expresses parliament's support for extending the protection of eu geographical indications to non-agricultural products. the committee also calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the rules on the protection of personal data are respected. i abstain, because the benefits are clear for smes and artisans as well as for italian consumers, and there is also provision for requiring producers to pay a contribution.
in writing. ‒ on 15 july 2015, the european commission published a green paper launching a public consultation on possible eu action to extend the geographical indications legislation already adopted for agricultural products to non-agricultural products. there is currently no harmonised regulation for non-agricultural products, unlike for agricultural products and alcoholic beverages. the advantage of this measure would be primarily economic, since it would make it easier to distinguish products using this type of labelling and make them more attractive from a commercial point of view. the introduction of a harmonised system of protection would also promote the development of the european economy and culture. protection would also encourage innovation to safeguard the high quality of products while maintaining their competitiveness. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. the commission green paper 'making the most of europe's traditional know-how: a possible extension of the protection of european union geographical indications to non-agricultural products' is followed by this own-initiative report. at present, at european level, geographical indications are only provided for wines, alcoholic beverages and agricultural and food products. they form part of the cultural heritage of the union and define the characteristics of european regions. the report supports the extension of gi to non-agricultural or food products and calls for the creation of a single eu-wide protection system to address distortions in the single market created by an excessive fragmentation of gi protection rules in the various member states. this is certainly helpful for smes, for artisans and above all for consumers, who should be able to make a choice on the basis of clear and precise information. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ as the 5 star movement, we are in favour of protecting non-agricultural geographical indications. we believe that this is an indispensable tool for promoting and protecting local products, crafts, small and mediumsized enterprises and consumers. europe has always been characterized by the fact that each region can boast of its own peculiar productions of excellence, not only in the agricultural sector. these are not only important from a cultural point of view, but have historically generated wealth and, if properly protected, can once again be, even more than before, an opportunity for sustainable development for our territories. the instrument we are calling for to be introduced into european union legislation could also help to put a stop to the consumer approval imposed by large distribution chains in non-food sectors too. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of the resolution on the possible extension of the protection of geographical indications of the european union to non-agricultural products, and i hope that the commission will take up the request of the european parliament and draw up a legislative proposal in the shortest possible time.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report signed by mrs roziere, because i believe that a tool is needed to protect and promote high-quality eu products, ensuring greater product safety and, at the same time, more effective protection for consumers.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the initiative calling on the commission to prepare a proposal to extend the system of quality certification to non-agricultural eu traditional and artisanal products.
in writing. i particularly welcomed the launch of the public consultation on the possible extension of the geographical indication legislation to non-agricultural products. the green paper, published by the commission in july 2015, highlights the strong interest of the member states in ensuring that non-agricultural products, which are the result of local tradition, culture and craftsmanship, are also given special attention and regulation to protect their specific characteristics and their exceptional qualities. this is a wonderful opportunity to show how europe can be a source of promotion, guarantee and enhancement of local products and territories, and how the union's strength lies precisely in respecting and enhancing diversity and its uniqueness in order to boost economic development, attract curiosity and international tourism and offer ever greater guarantees to both producers and consumers. i therefore welcome the excellent summary work carried out by mrs roziere in her report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mrs rozière's report on the possible extension of the protection of geographical indications of the european union to non-agricultural products because i believe it is a useful vote for the business system and for the economy of our country. the system of protection of geographical indications in agriculture has allowed the promotion of those products most closely linked to the territories, certifying their origin and quality. there is no doubt that the brand has made it possible to promote the production sites in a formidable way, including through tourism, and has become an opportunity to develop a culture of tourism which is now able to attract visitors and travellers. i therefore believe that geographical indications are not only a guarantee of quality and origin in the internal market but also an important lever for the internationalisation of our products. the small craft enterprises system will be able to take advantage of this important initiative of the european parliament, using financial instruments to promote their high-quality products abroad. i also believe that the expected results will also be in the direction of widening the range of workers employed in the sector: this is an additional opportunity for the economic growth of the territories.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the commission's initiative on a possible extension of the protection of eu geographical indications to non-agricultural products. the importance of geographical indications is certainly a valuable tool for improving traceability, transparency and consumer information and in particular an effective tool to combat imitation and counterfeit products, increasing consumer protection. for these reasons i supported the report by mr rozière.
in writing. ‒ the so-called gis (geographical indications) have the function of attributing and ensuring the geographical origin of a given product, in order to guarantee the quality of the product. if a european system of geographical indication of origin has been established for agricultural products, this does not apply to non-agricultural products. the absence at european level of a uniform and effective system for the protection and protection of the origin of products is increasingly the cause of indiscriminate counterfeiting and unfair competition. several studies have shown that the introduction of a geographical indication scheme for non-agricultural products would have social and cultural benefits, resulting in increased employment, increased tourism and increased exports to third countries. for all the reasons i have just mentioned, i have decided to welcome this report, which proposes to extend the protection of geographical indications of the european union to non-agricultural products.
in writing. ‒ i have decided today to vote in favour of the initiative calling on the commission to make a proposal to extend the 'system' of quality certifications to eu non-agricultural traditional and artisanal products. it is an important link between italian history and european manufacturing. so this form of protection, through the geographical indication, gives our small and mediumsized enterprises the competitive power they need in the global market, which they would otherwise be unable to cope with. protection of gi is an innovative drive to protect product quality while maintaining competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ the promotion and protection of european culture are central to the parliament's call on the commission to submit without delay a legislative proposal aimed at establishing a single european system for the protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products. protecting geographical indications means above all promoting a vision of europe: our union is much more than a trading platform, it is a place where beauty and quality are produced. small businesses, which produce about 80% of typical local products, are the echo of a history and a culture, they represent the european heritage, our heritage. because, more than products, famous names like murano, bohemia, laguiole, savile row, solingen, are the result of traditional knowledge and techniques. non-agricultural products generate activities closely linked to local realities; contribute to enhancing the attractiveness of a territory, preserving local identities and promoting their distinctive character, with beneficial effects on tourism, culture, employment and trade. i am enthusiastically supporting this resolution, convinced that the system of geographical indications can have many and varied positive effects for citizens, consumers, producers and the whole of the european economic and social fabric.
in writing. ‒ by adopting this report, we want to reiterate the importance of geographical indications, in the wider context of intellectual property rights, as a tool to improve traceability, transparency and consumer information. we believe that eu legislation for non-agricultural products would allow the full benefit of the economic benefits of protecting the distinctive character and quality of these products, while at the same time helping to preserve the cultural and artistic heritage of european local and regional traditions. we have an obligation to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and producers in fighting counterfeiting and counterfeit products, by ensuring a more socially, economically and environmentally sustainable approach to economic development within and outside the eu, as well as fair competition and consumer protection. but it must be consistent, simple, transparent and not burdensome in terms of bureaucracy and finance for smes. we therefore call on the commission to include a new, coherent and well-prepared strategy for all gis, ensuring their respect and recognition, in the future communication on the european union's trade and investment strategy.
in writing. ‒ the report, following a consultation with stakeholders, calls on the commission to come forward with a legislative proposal to extend the protection of geographical indications to non-agricultural products, thus contributing to the creation of a single protection system for the whole of europe. the absence of a unified eu system of protection for geographical indications of non-agricultural products creates an inadequate and particularly fragmented european framework, due to the fact that some member states do not offer any specific protection while others have different definitions, procedures and levels of protection, which hamper the harmonious development of the common market and an obstacle to consumer protection, i have decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ given that the manufacturing and craft sector is a mainstay of the european economy and given the current legislative imbalance between pgi products and products of non-agricultural origin, i believe it is important, also to protect national territorial realities, to establish a pgi mark also for non-agricultural products. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ protection of gi for non-agricultural products could be an important incentive at european level, as geographical indications can have considerable economic potential, especially for smes and the eu's peripheral regions. in addition, such protection would help the public authority to combat counterfeiting, protect the consumer and help to improve product traceability. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this initiative and i hope that in the future community action the effects of the new system on producers, their competitors, consumers and the member states will be fully considered.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the possible extension of the protection of geographical indications of the european union to non-agricultural products, because i believe that the recognition of the origin and the method of production of products are necessary tools to promote the creation of an efficient single market. consumer confidence is the basis for the proper functioning of the market and would be enhanced by better information and improved product traceability and transparency. the protection of quality products both inside and outside the european union must be guaranteed.
in writing. ‒ high-quality european traditional products, which are the result of traditional knowledge and techniques and represent an important cultural heritage of the european union. in particular, non-agricultural products contribute to enhancing the overall attractiveness of a territory, preserving local identities and promoting their distinctive character, with beneficial effects for tourism, culture, employment and trade. at present, there is a uniform protection of gi for wines, agricultural products and foodstuffs at european level. however, there is no harmonisation or unitary protection of gi for non-agricultural products. on the contrary, national legal instruments apply, whereby the level of legal protection varies from one member state to another, leading to higher burdens for european producers. i therefore voted in favour of this report, in the hope that the commission will present its legislative proposal as soon as possible in the context of the european internal market strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the non-binding resolution calling on the commission to submit a legislative proposal extending the eu's geographical indication (gi) protection regime from agricultural products to locally produced goods and to traditional knowledge-based handicrafts. the introduction of an eu scheme for the protection of local gis for typical products would be an important step both for consumers, who would be allowed to buy products that comply with certain production and quality rules more consciously, and for producers, who would be protected from unfair competition from counterfeit products, in support of traditional skills and local craftsmanship that ensure the quality of typical products and the preservation of regional know-how. i believe that once this type of protection is introduced, it can offer great economic potential, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises and regions in the eu, and at the same time allow the union to protect these products outside the eu in the context of international trade negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i welcomed this report which calls for the protected geographical indication (pgi) mark to include not only food products but also handicrafts, thus helping to preserve europe's cultural heritage and economic growth, especially of small and medium-sized enterprises, while ensuring greater consumer protection. this report considers that high-quality european traditional products, the result of traditional knowledge and techniques, are a cultural heritage of the eu and an essential element to be preserved in the economic and social life of many european regions. the report calls on the commission to establish a single protection system at eu level, considering that the absence of such a system results in an inadequate and particularly fragmented european framework, due to the fact that some member states do not offer any specific protection while others have different definitions, procedures and levels of protection within national and local rules. such fragmentation hinders the harmonious development of the common market and homogeneous protection and effective competition on equal terms, which prevents consumers from receiving accurate, truthful and comparable information.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on extending the geographical indication to non-food products because i believe it can be an effective tool to support and make our local excellences more competitive. the report considers the high quality of european handicrafts, the result of traditional knowledge and techniques, as a cultural heritage to be preserved in order to protect the specific characteristics of individual territories and to enhance local production chains. the absence of a harmonized system results in an inadequate and particularly fragmented european framework and distorting effects on the harmonious development of the common market, preventing us from exploiting to the full the economic, social and cultural potential which derives from these products. i therefore appreciate the strong call on the commission to come forward with a legislative proposal to this effect.
in writing. ‒ in july 2015, the commission proposed to amend two articles of regulation no 1303/2013 in order to ensure that eu funding available for greece is made available to beneficiaries as quickly as possible. the key elements include the increase of the co-financing rate for projects under the 2007-2013 programming period from 95 to 100%, and for the 2014-2020 programming period, the provision of an additional 7% initial pre-financing in the operational programmes of the cohesion policy in greece. this would allow greece to avoid a loss of €2 billion this year and to have immediate liquidity in the 2015-2016 biennium of €2 billion. the greek state will have to ensure that a mechanism is put in place to ensure that the additional amounts made available as a result of the measures taken are used exclusively for payments to beneficiaries. the regi committee voted overwhelmingly in favour of the simplified procedure to allow a vote in plenary to facilitate the use of the funds in greece. in view of the situation in greece and the important measures taken, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the mihaylova report does not provide a sufficiently critical and balanced analysis of the real causes of the collapse of the greek economy. that is why it cannot be shared and i did not vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because the eu's cohesion policy and its structural funds have been, during the crisis, indispensable tools to enable businesses and citizens to continue their activities and to face and overcome the most difficult moments. the situation in greece is even more difficult because of the budgetary policies that this country has to apply. these specific measures are therefore designed to enable greek companies to receive the funds to which they are entitled so that they can emerge from the crisis as quickly as possible, which is what we all want.
in writing. - i vote against. the report, of course, is careful not to point to austerity as one of the causes of greece's ruin. at least it allows greece to take the only path that will enable it to break free from its status as an economic colony in south america and return to growth (and thus repay its debts): the agreed exit from the euro. as if that were not enough, it is not explicit that these 'measures specific to greece' cannot one day be extended to other member states, nor that these emergency provisions cannot in any way allow the use of the structural funds with the effect of facilitating the transit and settlement of illegal immigrants in the schengen area. as the enf and efdd amendments will not be adopted, the final vote will be against.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the house, i voted today in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1303/2013. as i said in my speech, this regulation makes it possible to implement, in view of greece's liquidity shortage, a rapid and important corrective to enable greece to benefit from the extraordinary support measures resulting from the cohesion policy funding still available from the 2007-2013 programming period. the aim of this regulation is to restore the balance to greek investment in programmes financed by the european funds, and to make up for the country's lack of liquidity. in any case, i would stress that it is important, especially in emergency phases and situations, that there be the widest and most timely information on the processes under way.
in writing. ‒ greece has been severely affected by the financial crisis. the negative gdp growth rates for several years have caused greece severe liquidity problems and the lack of public funds for public investments necessary to foster a sustainable recovery. it is essential that the lack of liquidity and of public funds does not hinder investment in programmes financed by the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund, as well as by the european maritime and fisheries fund. the proposal allows for an advance payment of eur 2 025 600, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the possible extension of the protection of geographical indications of the european union to non-agricultural products. geographical indications can have considerable economic potential and adequate protection can bring important benefits, especially for smes and for eu regions. europe has a real heritage of traditional skills and craftsmanship of the highest level. however, at european level, there is no uniform system for the geographical indications of non-agricultural products. the report welcomes the commission's proposal for a public consultation of stakeholders and calls for a legislative proposal on this subject, considers it necessary to establish at eu level a protection instrument for the manufacturing and craft sector, considers that such measures should be accompanied by information and communication measures and underlines the important benefits that the extension of the geographical indications of the european union to non-agricultural products will bring for consumers, producers and citizens.
in writing. ‒ after so much austerity, greece needs european solidarity. i do not want to go into the details of the decisions taken by the troika, but it seems to me that a country which is committed to paying its debts must be helped to get out of the stagnation into which it has fallen. we certainly need to avoid that these aids are perceived as an incentive to shrink like greece before making reforms, but the message also for italy is to not stop trying to improve (instead of wasting time with non-urgent measures) and roll up your sleeves, which has not happened since 2011.
in writing. ‒ greece is still paying a heavy price for the consequences of the financial crisis: the country faces liquidity problems and lacks the public funds needed to foster a sustainable recovery. i therefore support this proposal and support the amendment of the rules of the regulation on common provisions, as i consider these initiatives essential to provide an immediate and indispensable boost to investment. these exceptional measures will enable a greater number of projects to be launched quickly and, if handled with the utmost precision, can mark an important step towards the recovery of the financial situation of the hellenic country.
in writing. ‒ in the 2014-2020 programming period, around €20 billion of structural funds will be available for greece. in july 2015, the commission proposed to amend two articles of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 in order to ensure that eu funding available under the european regional development fund (erdf), (esf), (fc), (feamp) is effectively used for investments on the ground and is available to beneficiaries as quickly as possible. three key elements: increase the co-financing rate for projects under the 2007-2013 programming period from 95% (already in place instead of the normally applicable 85%) to 100%; 'early release' of the final balance, equal to the remaining 5%, normally given at the closure of the programming in march 2017, as soon as possible; for the 2014-2020 programming period, provision for an additional initial pre-financing of 7% in the operational programmes of the cohesion policy in greece. i am in favour of this because the combined provision of the three measures would, among other things, reduce the risk of some eur 2 billion being lost through automatic decommitment due to delays in spending by the greek authorities and would give an immediate liquidity of eur 1 billion (plus a further eur 1 billion in 2016).
in writing. ‒ the final clearance of the amendments to the cohesion policy regulations, which will make it easier and less costly for greece to absorb the structural funds, is a positive development. it is certainly a step in the right direction, showing the other side of the union: the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the union. this cannot make us forget the other serious emergency that is right in front of our eyes: the tragedy of migrants and refugees. there are resources from the 2007-2013 programming period which, if not spent by 2015, will revert to member states' budgets and remain unused; it's a waste! let us map these resources at european level, concentrate them on a single specific axis coordinated by the commission services and subject to additional controls, as in the case of greece and make them available to those states and regions which are most affected by migration flows on a daily basis. we are for a different europe, one which does not forget its historical roots, the suffering and the tragedies it has suffered, and which, on the basis of this, makes the true spirit of welcome and solidarity prevail.
in writing. ‒ given the exceptional and dramatic financial situation in greece, i voted in favour of the proposal to address the lack of liquidity in the greek economy. this proposal will not affect the budget for the period 2014-2015 and will leave unchanged the annual breakdown of commitment appropriations for the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this report, which of course does not even indicate in the wrong measures taken in recent years in greece one of the causes of the worsening situation.
in writing. ‒ with this vote we have shown the face of european solidarity in the face of a country in great economic difficulties like greece. in addition to the sacrifices it is required to make, today's vote provides for a supplementary financing programme and some important measures to help the population and to ensure that the temporary lack of liquidity does not impede the effectiveness of certain european programmes, which would otherwise be jeopardised.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recent exceptional measures proposed by the ec for greece, aimed at amending the common provisions governing the implementation of the structural and investment funds, as i strongly agree with the need to ensure immediate liquidity for greece and thereby unblock investment and allow greece to make the most of the funding provided under the cohesion policy. from the outset, the s&d group, of which i am a member, has strongly supported an accelerated procedure to amend regulation (eu) no 1303/20132, which contains common provisions on the five structural funds underpinning the eu's economic and social cohesion policy, in order to allow greece to advance payment appropriations without any budgetary impact in the 2014-2020 period. the latest agreement between greece and the european institutions, with the support of the imf, has allowed greece to remain in the eurozone and the eurozone to preserve itself. the ep's broad support for the greek cash advance is therefore a concrete act, widely supported by progressive forces, to give the greek people a breath of fresh air so that greece can embark on a path of lasting economic growth, based on the creation of new jobs and the ability to attract new investment.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the measure, which aims to provide support to greece so that it can benefit from union funding under the cohesion policy funds by the end of 2015. the objective is to allow the ceiling applicable to the cumulative total of pre-financing and interim payments to be 100% and to bring the co-financing rate of operational programmes for the period 2007-2013 to 100% in order to allow a faster recovery of the greek economy.
in writing. ‒ one of the consequences of the current economic and financial crisis in greece is certainly the lack of liquidity and of public funds for investments to support and strengthen the country's recovery. it is important that the lack of such funds does not hinder investment under the various programmes operating in support of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020. i consider the commission's decision to amend the regulation laying down common provisions and to apply the simplified procedure to enable the regulation to enter into force as soon as possible to be essential. the objective of this amendment is to support and facilitate a rapid recovery of the economic system in greece by using european union funding by the end of 2015.
in writing. ‒ today i voted against this resolution because it only amplifies the process of indebtedness in greece and does not offer a plausible solution to the economic crisis in the greek country.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the green light for some specific measures for greece, a country particularly hard hit by the consequences of the financial crisis. the lack of liquidity and of public funds for investment effectively prevents a sustainable recovery. given the exceptional nature of the situation, we believe that specific measures should be adopted to support new investments under programmes financed by the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the cohesion fund and the european maritime and fisheries fund. the objective is to provide for additional pre-financing of the operational programmes of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 under the investment for growth and jobs goal and of the programmes supported by the emff, allowing the ceiling applicable to the cumulative total of pre-financing and interim payments to be 100% and bringing the co-financing rate of the operational programmes for the period 2007-2013 for the convergence, regional competitiveness and employment objectives to 100%. we note the urgency of the support requested and have therefore decided to apply a simplified procedure without amendments to the regulation, which should contribute to the overall effort to help greece by allowing the regulation to enter into force as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ it is essential that the lack of liquidity and public funds in greece does not constitute a barrier to investment under programmes financed by the european regional development fund, the european social fund (esf) and the cohesion fund, as well as the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff). the commission has therefore proposed to amend the common provisions regulation to provide for additional pre-financing of the operational programmes of the cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 and to allow the ceiling applicable to the cumulative total of pre-financing and interim payments to be equal to 100%. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ in view of greece's economic and financial situation, i support the proposal to increase funding for cohesion policy programmes with the objective of employment and growth. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ as is well known, greece has been hit by a deep economic and financial crisis that has been going on for several years. this crisis has caused over time several liquidity problems and lack of public funds necessary to revive the country's economy. it is essential that this lack of liquidity and of public funds does not hinder investment under programmes financed by the european regional development fund, the european social fund (esf) and the cohesion fund, as well as by the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff). the commission has therefore proposed to amend the common provisions regulation to provide for additional pre-financing of the operational programmes of the cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 and to allow the ceiling applicable to the cumulative total of pre-financing and interim payments to be equal to 100%. i believe that the european commission's proposal, in addition to being a matter of common sense, can be of great help to greece and its people.
in writing. ‒ the new eu funding is intended to support and promote the economic recovery of greece. i agree with the commission's proposal to amend the common provisions regulation for greece in order to obtain additional funding for the operational programmes of the cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020. the amendment would allow the ceiling applicable to the cumulative total of processing and intermediate payments to be equal to 100%.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the package of measures for greece, based on a proposal from the european commission to allow the actual spending of a significant share of the european structural and investment funds and the agricultural funds allocated to greece until 2020. the objective is to speed up the implementation of european funds to help greece use the funds still available from the 2007-2013 programming period by 2017 and to help the greek country meet the requirements for access to the funds of the new 2014-2020 programming. this is a one-off measure justified by the particular economic situation of greece, which does not provide for any further disbursement from the eu budget, as these funds are already allocated to the country. it is important to note that in order to facilitate the spending of these funds, greece will be allowed to finance 100% of the eu's operational programmes for 2007-2013, removing the requirement of national co-financing, which in a country with severe liquidity problems would have undermined the very objectives of cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising eur 6 958 623 from the egf to help the 2 881 redundant workers at opel in bochum. the globalisation adjustment fund is a tool to support the internal market, but it is not the cure for the malfunctions of this failed european system which, with its austerity policies, has contributed to the drastic drop in opel/vauxhall sales and the consequent loss of jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that it is the union's task to help those workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the crisis. in particular, in the present case, the impact of the crisis on adam opel ag is undeniable, which saw its car sales fall by 39% and which was unable to compensate for this decline by accessing markets other than the european market, as decided by its parent company general motors.
in writing. - yes, € 6,958,623 for 2,881 excesses at the opel in bochum. the small and medium-sized car manufacturers in the mid-priced segment, where opel is one of the main players, were particularly affected, and in any case more than the budget cars as well as the high-end and luxury cars. calo registrations in eu+efta between 2007 and 2013: - 25% (opel - 39%) - the number of vehicles in the opel has been disadvantaged by its parent company general motors, which has allowed it to sell its vehicles exclusively in europe, thereby excluding it from emerging markets in other continents; in addition, the austerity policies imposed on european countries have contributed to the sharp decline in opel/vauxhall sales. bochum has already benefited from egf support after nokia stopped the production of mobile phones and 1,300 jobs were lost as a result; as if this were not enough, outukumpu intends to suspend local stainless steel production at the end of 2015. i'm always on the side of the workers and their families!
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (the egf, set up to provide additional support for workers who suffer from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade) which refers to the application by germany to facilitate the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by adam opel ag, a manufacturer of cars, trailers and semi-trailers, and a supplier. the application concerned 2 692 of the 2 881 redundant workers. in order to establish the link between redundancies and the major changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation, germany indicates that between 2007 and 2013 there was a 25% decrease in the number of newly registered cars in the eu and efta member states and that small and medium-sized car manufacturers in the middle price segment were particularly affected. the link between redundancies and the structural changes in world trade due to globalisation has been demonstrated, i voted in favour of this measure.
in writing. ‒ the automotive sector is strongly affected by international competition, as well as by the economic crisis, which has had a considerable impact on demand. i therefore voted in favour of the mobilisation of the fund for an amount of approximately eur 7 million, which is intended to provide support for the almost 2 900 workers affected by the closure of the opel plant in bochum.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the egf for the german company adam opel. the measure in question refers, in the context of the 2015 budget, to the mobilisation of the fund for a total amount of eur 6 958 623. the request is based on the occupational relocation of 2 881 redundant workers of adam opel, a company operating in the economic sector classified in nace rev. 2 division 29. it should be noted that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide support for workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. among the causes of the crisis that hit adam opel hard were the policy of the parent company general motors, which prevented it from selling its cars outside the european market and thus excluded it from emerging markets in other continents, and the austerity policies imposed in other european countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the adam opel case. the plant was operating under poor market conditions, was going through a severe crisis which led to a large number of skilled workers being considered redundant. i think it is right to help the workers who have been made redundant in this plant, especially since all the parameters are within the limits set by eu rules in this respect. it is therefore appropriate to contribute to the support of these people through the european globalisation adjustment fund, which was set up to provide additional support to workers who are affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the conditions are right for accepting germany's request to use the european globalisation adjustment fund to facilitate the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by adam opel and its supplier. the german authorities indicate that between 2007 and 2013 there was a 25% decrease in the number of newly registered cars in the eu and efta member states and that small and medium-sized car manufacturers in the mid-price segment were particularly affected. as the egf is a tool to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows, it is therefore appropriate to have recourse to the egf as the direct link between the closure and the global financial and economic crisis is confirmed.
in writing. ‒ the geier report deals with the german request to mobilise around eur 7 million from the egf to support almost 2 900 workers affected by the closure of the opel plant in bochum. i vote in favour of the mobilisation of this fund. i am aware that this is not the instrument that can best help workers, but in the absence of alternatives it must be supported.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows. between 2007 and 2013, the number of newly registered cars in the member states of the european union decreased by 25%, particularly affecting small and medium-sized car manufacturers. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the egf for germany to facilitate the reintegration into the labour market of redundant workers at adam opel ag, a manufacturing plant which has been badly affected by the crisis in the automobile industry in recent years.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of allocating the globalisation adjustment fund for the 2,881 redundancies at opel in bochum.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the mobilisation of a contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund of eur 6 958 623, requested by germany in connection with the crisis in adam opel ag. once again, the aim is to support workers in the car industry: 2,881 workers laid off by opel due to the crisis in the sector in europe, where car sales have returned to 1997 levels, with a 25% decline in new registrations and a 39% drop in opel product sales in 5 years. the company, which specialises in the sale of small and medium-sized cars, is also paying for the impoverishment of european consumers caused by the wrong austerity policies; it is therefore essential that europe should make a commitment to ensure that workers do not once again pay the price. the egf financing of training and vocational guidance measures, business creation advisory services, job search, mentoring, training allowances and the setting up of employment agencies, managed by the government and the trade unions, is an important step in the process of finding a comprehensive solution to the crisis in the european automotive sector.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of mr geier's report. i believe that the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for germany to facilitate the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant at adam opel ag is correct. the egf was established to provide additional support to workers who are affected by the consequences of major structural changes due to globalisation. in the present case, germany states that between 2007 and 2013 there was a 25% decrease in the number of newly registered cars in the eu member states, which certainly affected the company.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for germany. germany applied for a financial contribution totalling eur 6 958 623 following the redundancy of 2 881 workers at adam opel ag, a company active in the automobile manufacturing sector. adam opel ag has been particularly affected not only by the economic and financial crisis, but also and above all by the parent company general motors which has allowed it to sell its vehicles exclusively in europe, thereby excluding it from emerging markets in other continents, causing a drastic decline in car sales, especially in western europe. the activation of the fund will finance exclusively measures that will contribute to the reintegration of redundant workers into the labour market, thus creating conditions that will enable redundant workers to find temporary or permanent jobs, participate in vocational training programmes and acquire the required skills. i believe that special assistance is extremely important for workers who have been made redundant and for those who have been affected by the current world economic climate. the european union must be an example and a guide in development aid.
in writing. ‒ on 14 july 2015, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of germany to facilitate the reintegration into the labour market of redundant workers at adam opel ag, an undertaking active in the 'manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers'. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide support for workers affected by the consequences of structural changes in world trade flows.
in writing. ‒ today i have decided to vote in favour of the report on the proposal for the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in relation to the request from germany to allow redundant workers at adam opel ag to be reintegrated more easily into the labour market. the application in question covers almost all the redundant workers (2,692 out of 2,881), so i think it is right that the european globalisation adjustment fund should be used to support european workers during a delicate period of transition in employment.
in writing. ‒ the present application, the 13th under the 2015 budget, concerns the mobilisation of the egf for a total amount of eur 6 958 623 for germany and concerns 2 692 of the 2 881 redundant workers at adam opel, a company active in the manufacture of cars, trailers and semi-trailers. as the egf was set up to provide additional support to workers who are affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade and as the european parliament has often stressed the need for greater visibility of the fund as an instrument of union solidarity towards such workers, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in view of the crisis in the automotive retail sector in europe, with particular attention to the needs of germany, i believe that the use of the fund is necessary to deal with this problem. so i've chosen to ensure my yes vote.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal to mobilise the egf in connection with the application submitted by germany to provide a financial contribution to adam opel in bochum. this application was lodged following the redundancy of 2,881 workers due to the permanent closure of the holding. the sales of passenger cars produced by the german company in question decreased sharply between 2007 and 2013 reaching the lowest sales level recorded in the last 20 years. i hope that today's vote will not only help their families but also help to ensure that the opel employees in bochum can be readily reintegrated into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for a total amount of eur 6 958 623 for germany. this fund will be used to help the re-employment of 2,692 of the 2,881 redundant workers at adam opel, the motor vehicle manufacturer.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for opel, in response to a request from the german government following the closure of the well-known car manufacturer's bochum plant. faced with a crisis resulting from the decline in production and sales of small and medium-sized machines (the data provided shows a decline in sales of as much as 39% between 2007 and 2013), opel closed its bochum plant, resulting in the dismissal of 2,900 workers. most of them will be eligible for aid under the globalisation adjustment fund, which was approved today for eur 7 million. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of measures relating to vocational training, vocational guidance, business start-up advisory services, job search and training allowances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report authorising the mobilisation of eur 6 268 564 from the egf, the european globalisation adjustment fund, for the benefit of 5 111 redundant workers as a result of the definitive closure of ford in genk. in this time of widespread crisis, any form of aid, any opportunity is a strategic resource of great importance which cannot be ignored or, worse, neglected. in this context, the egf is one of the most useful instruments provided by the eu to provide concrete assistance to all those workers who have lost their jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that it is the union's task to help those workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the crisis. in the present case, the closure of ford genk had a devastating impact on the economy of the entire limburg region, with an increase in unemployment of 2% and a fall in gdp of between 2,6% and 2,9%.
in writing. ‒ positive vote, 5,111 redundancies due to the permanent closure of ford in genk in 2014, including 1,180 at eleven suppliers and downstream manufacturers. the egf will be mobilised to the tune of € 6 268 564 (equivalent to 60% of the total costs), covering some 4 500 redundancies. this mobilisation of the egf follows the first wave of redundancies in 2013. ford was the main employer in the province of limburg; the redundancies caused considerable damage to the economy of the area, with a total loss of over 8,000 jobs (including indirect losses), most of them eu citizens aged between 30 and 54 years, an increase in the unemployment rate of between 1,8 and 2 percentage points (with an increase of up to 29,4% in the regional unemployment rate, which goes from 6,8% to 8,8%) and a decrease in gdp of between 2,6% and 2,9% and a potential decrease in labour productivity of 10,9% due to the high importance of the automotive industry for labour productivity in the region. i always stand with the workers and their families!
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf, set up to provide additional support to workers who suffer from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade) which refers to the application submitted by belgium following redundancies at ford in genk, which manufactures cars, trailers and semi-trailers, and at 11 suppliers and downstream producers in belgium. the application concerned 5 111 redundant workers. in addition, 230 workers who were made redundant before or after the four-month reference period are eligible beneficiaries. in order to establish the link between redundancies and the significant changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation, it was demonstrated that between 2007 and 2012 the production of passenger cars decreased by 14,6% in the eu, while, in the same period, asian competitors increased their market share in the sector concerned. the link between redundancies and the structural changes in world trade due to globalisation has been demonstrated, i voted in favour of this measure.
in writing. ‒ this is the second simultaneous call for the mobilisation of the fund to help the automotive sector, a sign that it is suffering in a widespread way. i therefore felt it absolutely necessary to vote in favour of the allocation of just over eur 6 million for the reintegration of 4,500 people who lost their jobs as a result of ford's decision to close the genk plant and concentrate its production capacity in valencia, spain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the egf for the belgian company ford genk. the measure in question refers, in the context of the 2015 budget, to the mobilisation of the fund for a total amount of eur 10 447 607. the request is based on the professional relocation of 5 111 redundant workers, of which 3 701 concern ford genk and 1 180 concern 11 suppliers and downstream producers, operating in the economic sector classified in nace rev. 2 division 29 and 11 suppliers and downstream producers, and it is estimated that some 4 500 redundant workers will participate in the measures. it should be noted that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide support for workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the crisis that hit ford genk hard was caused by a 14.6% decline in passenger car production in the eu-27 between 2007 and 2012, while china more than doubled its market share in the sector over the same period. these events are directly linked to the major changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the ford genk case because, considering the various data, it is clear that there is a fall in demand for vehicles, and therefore a serious fall in car production in the province of limburg, the total loss of over 8,000 jobs in that sector of employment and the fact that the workers who are laid off are all between 30 and 54 years old. i believe that there are the prerequisites for using the egf, which was set up precisely to provide additional support for workers who are victims of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ the belgian authorities argue that the event that led to the bankruptcy of ford genk is the permanent closure of that plant in the city of genk. unfortunately, the causes of this closure are due to the continuing changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation, and also to the fact that the european automotive industry has lost a significant market share over the last ten years. the commission also concluded that the application submitted by belgium qualified for a financial contribution from the fund, which was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows. i therefore fully agree with belgium's request to protect these workers by supporting them in terms of personalised assistance in job search, case management and general information and training services, retraining, allowances and incentives.
in writing. ‒ belgium (rübig report) submitted an egf request for just over eur 6 million to help re-employ 4,500 workers in limburg who lost their jobs as a result of ford's decision to close the genk plant and concentrate its production capacity in valencia, spain. i am voting in favour of this because it can help workers, but it is not the solution to the problem.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for belgium. the fund will enable redundant employees at ford genk to be reintegrated into the labour market. the permanent closure of the plant is due to the severe crisis that has hit the automotive industry in the last decade and the transformations of world trade due to globalisation.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of allocating the globalisation adjustment fund for the 5,111 redundancies due to the permanent closure of ford in genk in 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in respect of the application egf/2015/003 be/ford genk, submitted by belgium. the egf contribution of eur 6 268 564 will cover the very serious consequences of the redundancy of 5 111 workers, including 3 701 at the ford genk plant and 1 180 in the downstream and upstream industries. the eu's intervention is good news for some 4,500 workers. the ford genk affair, which reflects the general crisis in the european automobile industry and global competition, has serious consequences for regional production, which has fallen by more than 15%: the province of limburg loses its main employer and 8,000 direct and indirect jobs, and sees the unemployment rate rise by 1.8/2 percentage points, a decline in gdp between 2.6% and 2.9%, and a decline in labour productivity of 10.9%. it is therefore important to provide adequate resources for the funding of personalised job search assistance services: european intervention will finance general information services, training and retraining, and employment benefits and incentives, bringing the eu closer to the needs of its citizens.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is the instrument promoted by the european union to provide support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation. today we are voting on a request from the belgian authorities, who have asked for the egf to be mobilised to help redundant workers at the ford plant in genk. i am determined to vote in favour of the proposal because it is another signal of the european parliament's practical help to workers and businesses in difficulty because of the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ belgium has submitted an application to the commission to mobilise a total amount of eur 6 268 564 from the european globalisation adjustment fund in respect of redundant workers at ford genk, a car manufacturing company. the application complies with the requirements for determining the financial contribution laid down in the regulation. this instrument was established to provide active labour market support measures exclusively to help workers made redundant and placed in redundancy as a result of structural change and to facilitate their access to new employment. i therefore voted in favour of the report and the commission proposal on the mobilisation of the egf for belgium.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for belgium to enable redundant workers to be re-employed at ford genk, a company active in the 'manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers'.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the case of the ford plant in genk, belgium. the belgian authorities argue that ford was the main employer in the province; the excesses caused considerable damage to the economy of the area, with a total loss (including indirect losses) of over 8,000 jobs. this is also due to the changes in international trade flows due to globalisation resulting in loss of market shares in the european automotive sector. this is the 14th application to be examined under the 2015 budget and relates to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 6 268 564 and concerns 4 500 workers out of 5 111 redundant workers at the ford plant in genk.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade. this application, the fourteenth under the 2015 budget, concerns the mobilisation of the egf for a total amount of eur 6 268 564 for belgium. the commission has decided to initiate proceedings under article 93 (2) of the eec treaty in respect of a number of aid measures granted to the steel industry in the united kingdom. in the light of the above, i have agreed to the report by mr rübig because i believe that workers, who are victims of the economic and financial crisis and of the market imbalances caused by the advance of globalisation, should have the full support of the european union.
in writing. ‒ in view of the crisis in the automotive sales sector in europe, with particular attention to the needs of belgium, i believe that the use of the fund is necessary to deal with this problem. so i've chosen to ensure my yes vote.
in writing. ‒ i support the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in relation to the application submitted by belgium to provide a financial contribution to ford genk. this application was made following 5111 outstanding placements, of which 3701 concerned ford genk and 1 180 11 suppliers and producers of the pipeline. the passenger car manufacturing sector has been experiencing serious difficulties in recent years, in particular due to a sharp decline in the eu market share. some car manufacturers and their suppliers have been forced to close production plants and restructure their workforce. the latter have resulted in a high number of redundancies. i hope that the mobilisation of the egf will prove to be a decisive instrument for supporting these workers and a valuable aid to the entrepreneurs affected by the crisis in the motor vehicle sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for a total amount of eur 6 268 564 for the belgian company ford genk. this fund will be used to provide vocational retraining for 4,500 of the 5,111 redundant workers and 11 suppliers or downstream producers.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for ford and its 11 suppliers, following the closure of the car factory in genk, at the request of the belgian government. this is the second intervention of the fund in favour of ford genk employees, who, following a first wave of redundancies in 2013, had received eur 570,000 in job-search aid via belgium. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the fund to cover the costs of the european social fund, the european social fund and the european social fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report authorising the mobilisation of the egf to the amount of eur 1 414 848 for workers affected by the restructuring which followed the acquisition of alitalia by etihad. while we wait for the eu to adopt more effective trade policies, committed to protecting our labour market, the best and perhaps the only instrument we can rely on to protect our redundant workers is the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the redundant workers of the alitalia group in the lazio region, which entitles italy to a financial contribution of eur 1 414 848. the fund represents a great opportunity to respond to the effects of the economic crisis and to assist the most affected workers to re-enter the labour market. the allocation of the eu fund and the measures planned for the 184 former employees are promising: the italian authorities are working to provide personalised services, active job search support, over-50 recruitment bonuses and training, taking into account future labour market prospects, skills requirements and the needs of workers who are having difficulty finding a new job.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that it is the union's task to help those workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the crisis. in this case, a further increase in the unemployed would place a greater burden on the igc's benefit system, which is already under pressure.
in writing. - i vote for it. € 1,414,848 to cover only 184 of the 1,249 redundancies in lazio. the reason for the redundancies is the restructuring following the acquisition of alitalia by etihad. the report rightly laments the fact that not even 15% of redundant workers will benefit from the measures and that the costs of the 'preparation, management, information and publicity, and control and reporting' activities are high (4% of the total). always on the side of work and the workers!
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (the egf, set up to provide additional support to workers who suffer from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade) which refers to the application submitted by italy to support the reintegration of workers made redundant by the alitalia group. the application concerns 1 249 workers made redundant by the alitalia group. the event that gave rise to the vacancies in the alitalia group is the return of the number of passengers carried in 2014 to the 2010 levels, with a decrease of 3,6% compared to 2013 and 6,4% compared to 2012, combined with the accumulated losses from the total privatisation of alitalia in 2009. it is good that an italian company has benefited from the egf, a tool that has so far been little used by italian companies due to the lack of support from local and national institutions, which submitted only 14 applications in total between 2007 and 2014.
in writing. ‒ the request to mobilise the fund concerns alitalia, for which the italian government made a request for almost one and a half million euro last march. this money is to support 184 workers, out of a need of 1,249. i certainly voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide tailor-made services to redundant workers in order to find new employment. that is why the request to help the 184 workers dismissed by alitalia because of a decline in its share of the international passenger air transport market is absolutely legitimate. in fact, 1,200 people were laid off, but these 184 are the people who are in the most difficult situation. the economic crisis of recent years has hit the air navigation sector hard, as has the increase in fuel prices. passengers have dropped sharply, causing a decline in airline revenues. i therefore vote in favour of mrs vana's report.
in writing. ‒ increased competition from non-eu airlines, including low-cost airlines, the volatility of oil prices and the prolonged effects of the economic crisis are the reasons for the decline in the loss of market shares in the european union's air transport market. a sector which had so far withstood the direct and indirect consequences of an unprecedented crisis. the 15th call for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund under the 2005 budget concerned alitalia, which suffered a decrease in passenger numbers of 3,6% compared to 2013 and 6,4% compared to 2012 between 2010 and 2014. this resulted in the redundancy of 1 249 workers, 189 of whom were in the lazio region alone, which considered it appropriate to use the egf to deal with the difficult situation faced by the airline's employees. the active labour market measures to be implemented by the fund (skills budget, on-demand training, training mobility bonus and recruitment bonus for those over 50 years of age) will serve to increase the employment opportunities of alitalia's staff. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the egf for the italian company alitalia. the measure in question refers, in the context of the 2015 budget, to the mobilisation of the fund for a total amount of eur 1 414 848. the request is based on the occupational relocation of 184 of the 1 249 redundant workers of alitalia, a company operating in the economic sector classified in nace rev. 2 division 51 in the nuts 2 region of lazio. it should be noted that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide support for workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the deterioration of the economic situation on the international air transport market, in particular the decline in the union market share and the huge increase in the number of passengers carried by turkish and gulf carriers, are among the causes of the crisis that has hit alitalia hard.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation at alitalia in relation to redundancies caused by the crisis affecting the airline. i am well aware of the situation in my country's flag carrier and i know that many workers have been laid off. i think it is necessary and right to vote in favour of the request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund, which was set up to support those workers who, caught up in the mechanism of globalisation, have lost their jobs, but not through their own fault or through their own productivity.
in writing. ‒ i consider that the conditions are right for accepting italy's request to use the european globalisation adjustment fund to facilitate the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by the alitalia group. the egf is an instrument set up to provide additional support to workers who are affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows. this request is in line with the basic prerequisites for applying for egf funding, as it arises from the need to address redundancies of alitalia workers following the collapse in the number of passengers on alitalia routes registered after the privatisation in 2009. in particular, these funds will guarantee personalised services to redundant workers, consisting of five types of measures: the skills balance sheet, the accredited entity, training on demand, the training mobility bonus and the over-50 recruitment bonus.
in writing. ‒ as the five star movement, we are deeply concerned by the vana report, which is the request made by the italian government in march 2015 to help some of the redundant workers of alitalia; the requested amount is eur 1 414 848, and is expected to cover 184 beneficiaries out of a total of 1 249 potentially eligible persons. we are in favour of the mobilisation of this fund as a general rule. we are aware, however, that this is not the instrument that can best help workers, but in the absence of alternatives it must be supported. we have given the alitalia case a thorough thought, because on the one hand it seems quite unusual to ask for such a small number of beneficiaries compared to the potential candidates, and we are also well aware of all the problems connected with the management of alitalia; however, it seems very difficult to oppose the granting of benefits which are supposed to help redundant workers, and that is why we voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund because it will enable the reintegration of 184 redundant workers at the alitalia group. the loss of jobs is due to the contraction of the european union's market share in international passenger air transport between 2008 and 2014. the european globalisation adjustment fund is a concrete sign of european solidarity and will enable former alitalia group employees to seek new jobs.
in writing. i am in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in question, because it will benefit italy and, in particular, will support the reintegration of workers made redundant by the alitalia group. the claim relates to a total amount of eur 1 414 848, but unfortunately only concerns 184 of the 1 249 workers made redundant by the group. the italian authorities have provided all the necessary guarantees that: the principles of equal treatment and non-discrimination will be respected in the access to and implementation of the proposed actions; the conditions for collective redundancies laid down in national and eu legislation have been met; the alitalia group, which was made redundant and continued its activities even after the redundancy measure, complied with its legal obligations in respect of redundancy by granting all the benefits provided for to its employees; the proposed actions will not receive any financial support from other union funds or financial instruments and any double financing will be prevented; the proposed actions will be complementary to those financed by the structural funds; the financial contribution from the egf will be in accordance with the procedural and substantive rules of the union on state aid.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of allocating the globalisation adjustment fund. although it only concerns 184 of the 1,249 redundancies in lazio. the reason for the redundancies is the restructuring following the acquisition of alitalia by etihad.
in writing. i welcome the rapid and thorough examination by my colleagues on the committee on budgets of the request for the release of the european globalisation adjustment fund in favour of italy's application in the alitalia case. 184 workers will benefit from the measures provided for by the fund, totalling eur 1 415 000. i would like to express my particular appreciation of the speed with which the proposal was examined and accepted: the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a serious accident at work. this is an important example of the european institutions' closeness to the concrete needs of the families and workers concerned.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in respect of the application egf/2015/004 it/alitalia submitted by italy. i believe that the european union should intervene in support of alitalia, because the air transport sector, once the jewel of european greatness, is now in a very deep crisis due to foreign competition and globalisation. the increase in passenger numbers carried by turkish and gulf carriers to the detriment of european carriers and the growth of low-cost carriers have severely eroded the market share once held by the flag carriers, causing mass redundancies. for this reason, i am in favour of the allocation of an egf contribution of eur 1 414 848 for actions to support identified workers, who will benefit from a set of personalised services such as skills assessment services, on-demand training, training mobility bonuses and recruitment bonuses for workers over 50. i think it is important to pay particular attention to older workers, who are more at risk of longterm unemployment and permanent social exclusion: this is the europe of solidarity, which does not abandon its citizens in times of difficulty.
in writing. today we voted on four more requests to mobilise the globalisation adjustment fund. the one for italy concerns a contribution of eur 1 414 848, to be paid to alitalia's redundant workers. since the egf is intended to provide support for redundant workers and selfemployed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation, i believe that the 'alitalia case' is fully relevant. europe is once again demonstrating its mission of solidarity and its concreteness in helping people suffering from the effects of a devastating economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ on 24 march 2015, italy submitted the egf application for a financial contribution from the egf following the redundancies of 1 249 workers from the alitalia group in italy, mainly concentrated in the lazio region. the total estimated cost of the package is approximately eur 1,4 million. the air transport sector is undergoing major changes, competition has become much more intense and the transport sector has so far been the subject of two applications for assistance from the egf, both of which are due to the globalisation of trade. the mobilisation of the fund was appropriate as the services and tools offered to redundant workers, such as training mobility bonuses and over 50 recruitment bonuses, will protect workers and families and ensure levels of competitiveness vis-à-vis large airlines following the negative consequences of changes due to the phenomenon of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to support european workers affected by the changes in the structure of world trade due to the effects of globalisation. on 7 august 2015, the european commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of italy to support the professional reintegration of workers made redundant by the alitalia group, in the amount of eur 1 414 848. given that the international air freight sector has suffered a serious deterioration (due to the fall in demand and the increase in the price of oil), it is necessary for the european union to participate in the process of restructuring the sector. for these reasons i have decided to support this report, which supports the mobilisation of the egf for alitalia.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the commission's proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for italy to support the reintegration of workers made redundant by the alitalia group. the application in question concerns 184 of the 1 249 workers made redundant as a result of the sharp fall in passengers carried in 2014, combined with the losses accumulated by the total privatisation of alitalia in 2009. the international air transport sector has suffered a serious deterioration in its economic situation, in particular a decline in the eu market share, aggravated by other factors such as the decline in demand following the economic crisis and the increase in oil prices. the personalised services to be offered to workers will constitute active labour market measures falling within the scope of the eligible actions referred to in article 7 of the egf regulation. we also believe that accredited agencies, which provide active support in the search for work, should be paid on the basis of the results achieved and we believe that differentiated incentives will encourage the recruitment of the workers concerned on better terms.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the economic and financial crisis and market imbalances caused by the advance of globalisation. this application, the fifteenth under the 2015 budget, concerns the mobilisation of the egf for a total amount of eur 1 414 848 for italy. it concerns 184 of the 1 249 workers made redundant by the alitalia group, which operates in the air transport sector. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of the vana report because i believe that workers should be given the widest possible support from the european union. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of measures to improve the professional skills of these workers and to help them to find new employment opportunities.
in writing. ‒ given the urgency of the professional relocation of workers who are out of work in the alitalia group, i believe it is necessary to use the fund to solve this problem. that is why i have decided to give my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i could not help but strongly support the decision to approve the mobilisation of the egf, the european globalisation adjustment fund, in relation to the application submitted by italy. the purpose of the application is to support the reintegration into employment of 184 of the 1 249 workers made redundant by the alitalia group. the total amount of the egf shall be eur 1 414 848. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 28 june 2013 and entered into force on 1 january 2014. i very much hope that the mobilisation of these resources will enable alitalia employees to be reintegrated as quickly as possible or at least to be reintegrated into the labour market as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for a total amount of eur 1 414 848 for the alitalia group, a company operating in the economic sector classified in division 51 of nace revision 2 ('air transport'). this fund will be used to promote the re-employment of 184 of the 1249 workers laid off by alitalia.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for alitalia, in response to the request submitted by the italian government in march 2015. the european parliament plenary approved the allocation of €1.414 million to finance the integration fund for about 180 employees of the company. the italian flag carrier had to lay off over 1,200 workers, mainly due to a decline in its market share in international passenger air transport and the fall in passenger numbers due to the economic crisis and the increase in fuel prices. although the fund's intervention as voted on today covers less than 15% of the staff made redundant, it will help 184 workers by financing personalised vocational training courses to help them find new jobs.
in writing. ‒ m5s is in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help some of alitalia's redundant workers. we are aware that this is not the optimal solution to support our workers, also because the amount requested by the italian government seems inappropriate for such a small number of beneficiaries compared to potential candidates, but in the absence of other alternative solutions we have decided to give our support. the fund is intended to provide additional financial support to workers, in this case alitalia, who are affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade or the world economic and financial crisis.
in writing. ‒ we supported today the request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the alitalia case. italy applied for egf support last march following the dismissal of 1,249 workers from alitalia, which was privatised in 2009. the reasons for the redundancies are linked to the decline in alitalia's market share and the decline in passengers, due to the economic crisis and the increase in fuel prices. to help the company's former employees, italy requested the egf, the eu's instrument for providing support to redundant workers. the egf offers several tools to redundant employees, such as support for business creation, job search assistance, career guidance and various types of training courses. the total estimated cost of the measures is approximately eur 2,3 million; the egf will provide eur 1 414 848 to 184 beneficiaries. although it seems rather unusual to ask for such a small number of beneficiaries compared with the potential candidates, we can only support the granting of benefits to support redundant workers.
in writing. ‒ i welcome today's vote to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to provide italy with a contribution of eur 1 414 848 to deal with the consequences of the redundancy of 1 249 employees of the alitalia group. i am also pleased with the speed with which the italian application was assessed, which took less than five months. it is important that these funds be used, as the italian authorities have already begun to do on their own, for active support in job search and training measures, including the programme for the reintegration into the labour market of redundant workers over the age of 50.
in writing. ‒ although i agree with many of the points in the report, i have chosen to abstain from voting on it because it touches on well-known issues without proposing concrete and innovative solutions.
in writing. ‒ the un millennium development goals are a project agreed with all the countries of the world and shared by the major international institutions, including the european union. the european development fund and the cooperation instruments available to the union have made a major contribution to the implementation of these objectives. in planning development strategies, it is essential to increase efforts to ensure that global goals are translated into national and local dynamics. local authorities are key players from the very earliest stages of planning the growth of a specific community and their contribution to shaping the european development agenda is an opportunity we must not miss. in this way, we would help national governments to take responsibility for resource management and make it easier for the international community to invest more targetedly in the specific territorial problems of each reality. for these reasons, i fully support the need for decentralised cooperation and regular dialogue with civil and local society in the definition of the post-2015 agenda.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that strategic planning at national and, above all, local level is essential for promoting and integrating the three main dimensions of development: the social, economic and environmental dimensions. it is important that local authorities in the member states and in the recipient countries work to make the development cooperation system more efficient.
in writing. ‒ no social and economic development programme can take root without the active participation of those who live and administer the territory concerned. support from the central authority often too labile and perceived as distant or alien by the citizens of rural areas is not enough to succeed: in line with the work of the united nations general assembly's working groups on the sustainable development goals (owgs), attention needs to be focused on the subnational, regional and local levels of government. the eu must adopt and promote a new form of cooperation, decentralised, as a means of implementing the development framework for the next five years. decentralisation must be a priority area for the use of external aid financial instruments such as csfs and edfs, and must be accompanied by the integration of local authorities as full players in the implementation of the 11th edf at the level of partner countries, their regions and sectoral aid. the first priority today must be the protection of the right to health care and access to water: the who monitoring group has demonstrated that these objectives cannot be achieved without involving the local authorities which, in substance, control these resources; good cooperation can only be territorial.
in writing. - i abstained. it is very difficult to vote against the report of the committee on development, despite the scepticism with which we very often approach reports adopted in deve. of course, the text does not make original proposals; the arguments are those which have been known for a long time and between the lines there is an optimistic and positive judgment. in fact, one of the great problems of development policy is precisely that of the poor results achieved. in this sense we would have been more comfortable with a document attacking the european commission for not having been able, over all these years, to really activate the controls effectively on the huge amount of aid that, in any case, comes from europe. in a report on the involvement of local authorities in developing countries, we would have preferred that parliament had dared to do more, because the subject is important and solutions are needed. the involvement of local authorities in development policies is not only necessary to avoid aid being wasted or unproductive but is also in line with the ideals of the northern league. several of the gestures made by the text are important. the references to the importance of strengthening the role of indigenous peoples in development planning are fully acceptable.
in writing. ‒ my vote in favour of the report on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation, because local authorities play a key role in defining, organising and achieving development objectives. it is also important to bear in mind that the world's population is expected to grow by some 7 to 9.3 billion people by 2050, with the majority of this growth expected to occur in developing countries, so the eu must continue to pay particular attention to local authorities in planning, implementation and development finance flows, recognising and strengthening decentralised public aid in order to ensure their strongest participation in the definition of development strategies.
in writing. ‒ local authorities clearly play a central role in defining, organising and achieving development objectives. it is therefore of paramount importance that they are involved, as they can, in turn, more easily know and involve the local populations and the strata most in difficulty. in the new global framework for sustainable development, the involvement of local authorities is possible and i therefore voted strongly in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation. the report reiterates that local authorities have a key role to play in achieving the post-2015 goals as public and institutional actors for local governance, the consolidation of grassroots democracy, sustainable development based on the participation of local people and their democratic expression.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that local authorities play an important role in protecting vulnerable populations in fragile states in crisis and in middle-income states. the european union has also been heavily involved in supporting local authorities in developing countries to help reduce poverty. the new global sustainable development framework offers an opportunity to ensure the broad participation of civil society organisations, which is necessary to ensure good, transparent and accountable governance. finally, i fully agree that international cooperation in combating illicit financial flows must be stepped up in order to ensure equality in taxation of local and international companies.
in writing. ‒ as public bodies close to the citizens, local authorities have a duty to ensure transparent and accountable territorial governance, respecting the principle of democracy and facilitating sustainable development. local authorities play a key role in the new global sustainable development framework based on the post-2015 development agenda adopted by the united nations. the most critical objectives and challenges for local governance in developing countries relate to the ability to provide primary services such as education, health, employment, transport and infrastructure, also in view of the continuing population growth and the increasing urbanisation process in developing countries. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that local authorities should be given greater autonomy, acquire specific skills and receive more public and private funding. the european union has strongly promoted support for local authorities in the least developed countries and the achievement of the millennium development goals. achieving these objectives will depend on local governance and the establishment of strong partnerships with the private sector and civil society.
in writing. ‒ recent statistics show that the world population is expected to grow to 9.3 billion people by 2050; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. excessive concentration and consequent urbanization which endangers the sustainability of development: about two and a half billion new urban dwellers will need education, health services, jobs, food, transportation, housing. these are crucial challenges for local and regional authorities, who will be asked to carry out a key task. we have therefore a duty as european institutions to enable these authorities to play this role to the best of their ability, starting with the ability to mobilize public revenue and the strengthening of the tax system. we must act in a complementary way to support the emergence of a middle class through the promotion of private entrepreneurship, especially among young people and women. at the same time, we must encourage the growth of the role of civil society organisations by contributing to the development of mechanisms for regular dialogue. only in this way will we be able to create the conditions for a normal management of flows, which will prevent the recurrence of crises which, as you know, also have repercussions on europe.
in writing. ‒ whereas local authorities play a crucial role in safeguarding vulnerable populations and local governance; i also think that it is necessary to ensure that they are more closely involved in the formulation of development strategies, and i have voted in favour of the report signed by mrs theocharous.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that local authorities can play a key role in the proper and efficient use of development aid funds. but i cannot fully support this report and will therefore vote against it, as there is no sign of any self-criticism of the system used by the eu so far.
in writing. there is no possibility of sustainable development without the protection and guarantee of human dignity. the large increase in the world population by 2050, humanitarian crises and violent conflicts, poverty and hidden hunger are challenges of exceptional complexity that are concentrated mainly in developing countries. investment in a better future and the hope of restoring dignity to the most vulnerable populations must necessarily include greater involvement in national and european political and administrative planning of local authorities, who first of all face the inadequacy of services to the population, the lack of education, a health service that is not always up to the emergency, a labour market that must be developed, also using public/private partnerships to give strength and breath to small businesses, then employment. the growth and the goal of sustainable development of countries necessarily passes through greater autonomy and responsibility of urban authorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation, because i believe that development cooperation policy must also be a local policy. the role of local authorities must therefore be strengthened and defined, given their democratic potential as an expression of the will of the people and the fact that development can only start from below, involving institutional actors and not in an ever-stronger partnership. the millennium development goals, which the major donors, including the ec, had set themselves, have not been achieved, and the global crisis has only served to expose the shortcomings of many states and at best to delay the action of those who wanted to invest in development cooperation. it is time to look ahead and focus on the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, which can only be achieved if all actors involved play their part financially and by recognising the central role of local authorities as providers of social, health, education and training services.
in writing. i gave a favourable opinion on the report as the post-2015 development agenda should support the implementation of the outcomes of the rio+20 conference. it recognised the key role of local and regional authorities in promoting the potential of the green economy. therefore, i believe that decentralised cooperation should be promoted as a means to implement the post-2015 development framework, along with a strengthening of resource mobilisation and multilateral partnerships.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation. the report highlights the importance of local authorities in developing countries as public and institutional actors that must play a leading role in achieving the goals of the post-2015 global development agenda. the eu and its member states have been heavily involved in supporting local authorities in developing countries in their efforts to reduce poverty through aid and financial resources. europe is indeed one of the major players in the implementation of the sustainable development goals, as it sets policy coherence for development itself.
in writing. ‒ i felt it was my duty to vote in favour of the report by mrs theocharous, who calls for the role of local authorities in developing countries to be strengthened and for cooperation between them and local authorities in the member states to be strengthened through the conclusion of partnership agreements. partnership agreements allow for strategic planning at national and local level. it is of fundamental importance insofar as it allows the integration of the main dimensions of development: social, economic and environmental.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the adoption of this report which underlines the importance of the commission's new guidelines on local authorities and the recognition of their role as state actors in the european union's development agenda. we have always supported the important role played by local authorities in developing countries. therefore, it seems appropriate to urge the conclusion of new partnership agreements between local authorities in eu member states and local authorities in developing countries: these coordination structures can play a key role in providing technical and methodological support for the development of local capacity for the exchange of expertise, with a view to facilitating the process of decentralisation and the provision of basic services. we call on the commission to promote decentralised cooperation also in the financial instruments for external aid and to step up its efforts to integrate local authorities as full players in the implementation of development policies. we agree on the need to transfer part of the support from the european budget to the financing of local authorities, stressing the importance of transparency and the promotion of multilateral dialogues for the strengthening of the participation of local cultures, indigenous peoples, migrants and minorities.
in writing. ‒ i consider the role of local authorities to be of central importance in promoting the development of the union, especially in their role as intermediaries in the political dialogue between citizens and the institutions. that is why i have decided to give my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i believe that support for capacity building of local authorities in developing countries is essential to achieving the eu's development cooperation objectives. within these states, it is important to make decentralisation a priority institutional issue, with increased support for strengthening the financial and budgetary capacity of local authorities. the report stresses that local authorities must play a key role as public and institutional actors essential to good local governance, the consolidation of grassroots democracy, sustainable development based on the participation of local people and their democratic expression. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation. the report highlights the key role of local authorities in developing countries in achieving the goals of the post-2015 global development agenda. local authorities must be able to ensure local governance, establish grassroots democracy, guarantee freedom of democratic expression and promote the participation of local people in political activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the role of local authorities in developing countries (ldcs) in development cooperation. local authorities have direct experience and sound expertise in territorial development, decentralisation and the strengthening of democratic governance. it is precisely because of their proximity to the local area that they are able not only to ensure better management of community funds and resources with greater levels of transparency, but also to strengthen the links between the european institutions and local societies. the eu has always supported the local authorities of the ldcs in achieving the millennium development goals (mdgs).
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are talking about a sad story today. it is a very sad story, because in recent years we thought that we had made a real and practical contribution to reducing emissions from the car industry, and that we had achieved important goals so that european citizens could live in a cleaner environment. in reality, we are faced with something very different, because we have not been able to guarantee citizens a better air to breathe. we are now certain that our desire to legislate was only an illusion, an illusion based on fraud that we were unable to prevent or detect. it is therefore clear that we now know that the limits for nitrogen monoxide emissions have been deliberately exceeded for many years by one of the largest and most powerful car manufacturers. as chairman of the envi committee i am therefore concerned, as are the colleagues who will speak after me, and i ask the european commission whether there were other pollutants involved, such as particulate matter, carbon monoxide or others, or whether we are talking only about nitrogen monoxide, given the great link between these pollutants. is it true, as we have read in some press reports, that emissions were more than 40 times higher than the permitted limits? we want to know the truth and so i ask the european commission to carry out the necessary investigations and above all to keep the european parliament constantly informed of the results of the investigations. we thank the commission for being willing to come to the environment committee, to report immediately after the discovery of the scandal, but we would also like to know whether it is true, as stated by many car manufacturers besides volkswagen, that they did not manipulate car emissions tests. we therefore ask the commission to ensure that these are also subject to independent scrutiny, because what is at stake is very important, since it is the health of european citizens that is at stake. mr president, what has happened is a sad story for another reason. i am referring here to the role of the type-approval authorities. how is it that these authorities have not discovered the existence of illegal mechanisms in such a long period of time? how are these tests carried out and with what tools and equipment? as we all know, it was an american university that discovered this fraud, but we should also ask the member states, those responsible for the controls, those responsible for these technical bodies, how is it possible that these cars have passed the type approval tests? what is the european commission's role in this area and what does commissioner bieńkowska think about the possible establishment of a type approval or surveillance authority which would of course be able to monitor the control and verification operations carried out in the individual member states? i am also thinking of the local authorities and cities which are currently failing to meet the required air quality standards and have already been the subject of infringement proceedings by the european commission, at least they now know what was going on. there was someone who didn't follow the rules and they were held, perhaps wrongly, unfairly responsible. mr president, commissioner bieńkowska, we have therefore discovered in the last few days that the actual nitrogen monoxide emissions of some diesel vehicles measured on the road may indeed be different and divergent from those calculated in the laboratory and for this reason the commission is developing new methods of measuring these emissions, the so-called real drive emission, based on the use of the car in normal driving conditions. with regard to this new testing methodology from 2017, i would like to ask whether the commission can clarify whether it will be based on conformity factors or on a sample test. in conclusion, i hope that this scandal will help to find out what is really going on in this sector and whether we are dealing with an isolated case or with a common wrongdoing by several companies. i wonder why the european union always has to wait for scandal or tragedy to act. it's happened before in the food industry, with bse to get traceability of meat. what happened was that we needed to have thousands of deaths in the mediterranean to respond with a european policy and an agenda on migration. we are now facing a scandal, did it take this scandal to make you realize that the system needed to change and had to be set up differently?
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are concerned to draw attention to the fact that the consequences of this case for the environment and citizens will unfortunately not stop at the fact itself, but will systematically and permanently spread to the whole european complex of standards and tests, undermining the credibility of any type of certificate. what's the next scandal? who can he trust anymore? we have two choices: the first is to do nothing and to recognize that european certifications are a joke and a fraud on all the citizens of the union, and that all our legislative efforts, past and future, are in vain. the second way is to react, to react strongly, first by immediately adopting exemplary and historic punishments for the responsible person for the brands involved, which do not end in fines, however serious. this is to make it clear to citizens and industry that the time for agile testing is over forever. secondly, we should work towards a strict revision of the directives to identify the legislative gaps in technical testing and certification bodies. the commission's joint research centre had already identified the problem of volkswagen diesels in a 2013 dossier. in addition, breaches have also been reported in the press in recent days for samsung, uk and swedish products, and the commission was warned in 2011 and again in 2014 about samsung tvs that could circumvent european energy consumption tests. are diesel and television the only alarm bells the commission has heard ringing without reacting? we'd like to know.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am a volkswagen customer, i have a turbodiesel beetle which i bought after european regulations forced me to take the euro 5 because the others were polluting, so i am one of those 11 million who have problems. so i was conned. volkswagen is the world's leading car company today. so i wonder, mrs. merkel who runs the world should explain a little how it works because every time there is a problem merkel moves. so mrs merkel will be here with us tomorrow, and she has to tell us what happened, whether she knew or not about what was happening with volkswagen: did he know or didn't he know? i think that in the history of europe...
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the scandal involving volkswagen is serious, and it is serious for two reasons: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the proposals made by the rapporteur. the commissioner asks what we can do and now asks for mutual help. of course, the important thing is that the rumors that the commission and the german government are aware of these facts are not true. what do we learn from this lesson? it's very important to me. the fact that there are no 'a' and 'b' member states, the famous europe of which we hear so much, is an excuse, an excuse for some to play tricks. we must act, we must act, not be late, as always, but we must ask those member states which are in the chair and teach to step down from that chair because they are no better than the others, and must deal with all the others on an equal footing in order to build a true europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it would be very naive to think that a giant like volkswagen would risk ruin by this fraud without being able to count on the complicity of the highest authorities in germany and europe. for example, everyone knows, even the volkswagen bosses knew, that the european commission, so adamant in imposing austerity rules on governments, when it comes to finding breaches of rules by large groups, willingly turns a blind eye or even both. i am one of the millions of customers who have been defrauded by volkswagen and after your speech, commissioner, i no longer feel protected. you assure us that in the future you will do the checks that you have not done in the past and we have heard this many times. the truth is that you continue to delegate the role of controllers to the controlled. to give another example: in italy you rely on anti-mafia self-certifications, which have been the basis of a robbery of european funds for decades, and everyone knows it. we must always wait for an american university, a european magistrate to do the work that you should do first.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, cars cause six million deaths a year worldwide and over 16 million injuries. if it was a disease, we'd have raised the money to beautify it by now. we must stop giving the car the privileged position it has had up to now. with these words, beppe grillo, who has been presenting information on alternative technologies to the internal combustion engine for more than twenty years, commented on the volkswagen scandal, suggesting that the problem is not confined to the individual car manufacturer, but is a problem linked to the concept of the car itself. what is a car, after all? she's a 110-year-old woman who's had 20 facelifts, but inside she's still a four-wheeler, always quoting the co-founder of the five star movement. we have to learn something important from this scandal. the legislators must stop letting themselves be pulled down by the oil lobby, and a difficulty can be turned into an opportunity if we have the courage to do so. this opens the door to the sharing economy and to possibly free public transport in urban areas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, despite legislative efforts, the air quality of europe's cities continues to deteriorate, claiming hundreds of thousands of avoidable victims, says the european environment agency. the volkswagen scandal has answered what is a paradox. air quality is getting worse simply because emission limits are not being met. but who was to prevent all this from happening? the commission recalls the exclusive role of the member states in the type approval of engines and the performance of checks. however, as mentioned, already in 2011 the joint research centre in ispra had shown how much higher the limits were for nox in particular than those declared and also showed how portable detectors were able to reduce the risk of using tools that could falsify data. the commission knew, it also knew why in a presentation in 2014 one of its officials was talking about the very existence of these devices. at this point we have to ask ourselves whether the commission was aware of the volkswagen fraud, and which other car manufacturers are using this device and what they have done to prevent it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too have tabled a parliamentary question on this subject, which i consider to be of fundamental importance because of its implications for consumer protection, respect for the environment, protection of human health and the very serious damage to the image of the european business system and the automobile industry in particular. for this reason, responsibility must be established immediately and the appropriate sanctions imposed, even if, as has been said by several parties, it is truly paradoxical that all this has been found in the united states and not in europe, but we must also understand what the european commission has done in recent years, and if it is true what has been the subject of in-depth journalistic and not only, or that some organs of the european commission were aware since 2013 of the existence of software, computer tools used by some car manufacturers in order to alter the results of the analysis of the pollutants of diesel engines. if this were true, as i believe it is, it would be another extremely serious matter which requires that those responsible be identified and given exemplary punishment. that is why i hope that the appropriate antibodies can be identified and that the system of rules can be changed to prevent this from happening in the future, for example by changing the emission detection system from the laboratory to the street.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is clear from the image and the numbers of volkswagen that the damage to the credibility of the european industrial system goes beyond the damage to the car manufacturer. the consumer confidence has been betrayed by unfair practices, if not outright fraud, and a chain of ineffective controls. that is why the european institutions must now give impartial and firm answers which will help to restore consumer confidence. restoring credibility means strengthening the rules of the internal market with higher common standards and more effective control systems, clarifying national and community competences. this incident also reminds us of the need and urgency of european legislation to guarantee the quality and safety of products and of the need to achieve, beyond bilateral treaties, genuine regulatory cooperation at least with our most important trading partners.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this scandal has not only caused damage to citizens and the environment but has also created a major crisis of confidence in our laws, european laws which have seemed to our citizens to be as severe as they are obsolete, and also a crisis of confidence in the industrial system, at the very moment when we are, as the commission and parliament, making a great effort to revive all productive activity. we must therefore quickly regain this confidence in european laws, in their effectiveness, in the control they must have. we will support the programme you have outlined, madam commissioner. but this scandal must not be a reason to lower the quality level, the level of certainty of our standards, for which europe is a leader. so more quality, more rigor, more control. and in this connection, i would like to say that consumer protection also requires certainty about the rules, control and completeness of information, and i would remind you of the regulation on product safety, which also contains the word 'made in', a certainty about where products are made, the rules that accompany them and which is another instrument to give consumers more confidence, and i say this to you, madam commissioner, because i know your attention and commitment to these dossiers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what volkswagen has done is a serious fraud and those responsible for the fraud must be identified and punished, but the question that has been asked by others is: why have we not been able to bring to light the use of illegal devices to alter the control of pollutants and, above all, why has the fraud been discovered in the united states and not in europe? the volkswagen case clearly shows that it is not so much a problem of standards linked to emission targets, here the standards are there and they are also strict, the problem is the lack of adequate controls and if we think that a european agency could be useful to standardize controls, perhaps independent, but it is also true that tests are needed, we must rethink the tests, as has already been said, for the assessment of pollutant emissions, based on real driving conditions, without allowing excessive flexibility which could lead once again to untrue results. commissioner bieńkowska, that is where we would like to see concrete progress. the reputation of a country or a car company is not the only thing at stake here. in addition to the health of citizens, the credibility of the rules we set ourselves and their observance is at stake. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
i'm asking for a blue card. mr bonafè, someone mentioned earlier that 400 000 people die every year from air pollution. now, you know that in this pollution, in addition to the nitrogen monoxide from the volkswagen, there's also the dioxin from the incinerators, you know that? so, before you come down here and lecture us, could you talk to our prime minister and ask him to shut down these goddamn incinerators instead of encouraging the construction of new ones?
the answer is "blue card". mr pedicini, i am beginning to think that you have a problem because it is not possible that every time i speak you bring up the problems of our country, with all the good i want for my country. i would advise you, mr pedicini, not to run for the european parliament next time, but to run for the italian parliament, so that you can at least discuss it at length with your colleagues.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commission representatives, please stop this charade. now everyone is ready to ask for an explanation of the rigour, everyone is ready to assure that it will never happen again and everyone is ready to suggest new solutions, but here everyone knew. the commission knew, but did nothing, the german parliament knew, but let alone did anything, the americans knew, but they only brought this up now, during the ttip negotiations. citizens and environmental groups have been denouncing this scandal for several years, but they have never been heard because these institutions only listen to big industry and the powerful lobbies, so please, let's stop this big joke.
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this debate. i think it was very useful and valuable for both sides. i can assure you that i share emotion about the credibility of european industry, about cheating on consumers, about preventing jobs and about the credibility of our environmental ambitions. i really feel the sense of urgency here. we have to act very quickly. there is one point that has to be clarified; i will refer to the others later on. the commission did not receive any information before the official information disclosed by the us environmental protection agency (epa) and no information was received by us from the epa nor from any member states. on the contrary, we contacted the epa after they revealed their statement. the commission took initiatives to resolve this crisis. in the past 20 years we have made great progress in reducing polluting emissions in the eu. in the last years, for the first time in 2010-2011, the commission has concluded that the test cycles that we developed in the 1990s, in the beginning of the whole process, are not adequate anymore and that they are not able to reflect the emissions produced in real driving conditions. let me just touch upon the joint research centre (jrc) analysis that we conducted then. all joint research centre studies were made available on the internet. the joint research centre studies did not check for defeat devices. it was not part of the studies. the jrc only indicated that defeat devices could be one of the reasons for big differences between emissions in the laboratory and those on the roads. nothing more, and only this. we have therefore made efforts to develop new test cycles that can indeed reflect real driving conditions. work has progressed. it took a lot of time because they are very detailed technical issues but the work is almost complete, and it has to be completed in the fastest possible time. but let us not under-evaluate it when we are facing the current difficult and serious situation. we have to approve and implement new rules as quickly as possible and we need your support on this. at this moment we are analysing or finalising the analysis on how to improve the internal market in the framework of internal market strategy and in the case of the automotive sector we will propose soon a change of the rules on the approval of market surveillance. we will probably want to establish a new european instrument, on an institutional and european level, to check whether eu type-approval systems are implemented properly at the national level. however, also for the internal market, let us not question what has worked well. what we need now are cool heads and strong action, and i am really counting on you here. i want to make sure that i will do everything in my capacity, firstly to restore the confidence of the consumers in the automotive industry in europe, and secondly to ensure adequate compensation for the citizens who have been affected by this fraud. i will of course, keep you informed about every step of our action in the future.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the october part-session.
member of the commission.– i apologise for not saying this before: of course you will receive written answers to all of your questions. we have noted it.
in writing. the fraud committed by europe's largest car group on co2 emissions is a permanent sign of the end of two myths that, by the way, are being promoted to us on the model of this europe. the first, and most obvious, is that he wanted to draw more virtuous peoples and states than high ones; almost a "cultural" presupposition for imposing restrictive policies on "not very virtuous" countries. europe's reaction must be exemplary, because the emission standards that these very powerful giants are circumventing are the same standards that citizens and businesses are obliged to comply with with extreme severity and with an increase in costs and unbearable bureaucracy. the second is that this europe should be transparent, super partes and third in relation to the interests at stake. the reports of lobbyists and governments pressuring the eu to cover up fraud demonstrate the lack of transparent procedures, the fact that even 'officials' can be manipulated, and the absence of any mechanisms for self-defence by eu legislators against undue pressure.
in writing. due to the volkswagen scandal, it is estimated that in europe, failure to meet the reduction targets set by eu rules could result in the emission of an additional 1.5 billion tonnes of co2 in 2030, with a fuel cost of as much as €1 trillion more. it is therefore good that investigations, including criminal investigations, have been launched as soon as possible to ascertain responsibility and it seems appropriate in any case to review the whole system of emissions tests. as i said in my priority question, i have the impression that these problems will soon be extended to the whole consumer goods production chain, if only you consider that samsung tvs in europe seem to use more energy than is shown in the tests, raising questions about the energy efficiency tests. i expect a firm response from the commission, since it seems reasonable to assume that the world's major producers of goods have, for profit, increased the volume of weee, violated the principle of efficient use of resources, threatened the planet and sowed distrust among consumers.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in libya [2015/2872 ((rsp) ].
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once we have reached an agreement, we must now do even more to convince the contracting parties. this is a very good way of describing the latest episode of the libyan crisis. i renew my full support for the unlikely effort and work of bernardino león for a government of national unity, even if this project has the defect of not taking into account the existence of the opinion of the non-arab tribes of southern libya, the conclusion is instead essential to regain control of the southern borders. we hope that someone will not soon regret it by commenting on perhaps another civil war, in any case the complicated as well as inevitable alchemy of the leon plan still seems to be opposed by many, too many actors, from haftar, ready to damage it with his sudden military escalation in benghazi, from the unilateral extensions of the tobruk parliament, to the amendments of the tripoli parliament, to the plan, to the efforts of the international sponsors of all of them. while the names of the prime minister and two deputy prime ministers are being disputed in morocco, another 95 bodies are being shipwrecked off the coast of libya. no, the time for peace, unity and reconstruction is still very far away and frankly, president obama's mea culpa at the un on 28 september, in which he recriminates the mistakes of the past, does not seem credible to me, and is even hypocritical. he didn't inherit this war from bush. the international community he mentions is in fact made up of the united states, france, great britain and all those who have bombed the country with great lightness and have not then committed themselves to a genuine democratic transition. the insatiable appetite for libyan oil was more important than the future of the mediterranean. the libyans must take responsibility, you said, commissioner, and i agree, but when will those responsible for this disaster take responsibility? (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the answer is "blue card". mr president, i agree with you completely. often these plans, like the dayton agreements, prove to be completely ineffective in the face of the test of time. they are good for finding an armistice, for finding peace, but they are absolutely not capable of making a state governable. i think that at this moment we must reach a ceasefire, but then we must not make the same mistake and repeat that huge mistake again, otherwise we would find ourselves with another paralyzed state and we would find ourselves with an even bigger problem to solve in a few years, and it will certainly be a government also ineffective to fight the advance of the caliphate.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission representative spoke for almost ten minutes in the absence of the high representative, whose impact on the matter under discussion is, i think, made clear - i apologize - by the almost total absence of conclusions, of the concrete conclusions which the commission representative has presented to us. the near-absolute nothing. in fact, it is not clear to me how such an uncertain and confused position of the european union on the situation in libya, our southern neighbour, will affect the need and the increasingly dramatic urgency to stop the activities of the smugglers operating in libya and responsible for the damage, such as that which is happening today. it is also simply chilling to hear the statement by the grand mufti of libya, sheikh sadek al-ghariani, that it is not enough for the un-sponsored agreement to consider sharia as the sole source of legislation for the future libyan government of national unity. for islamic religious authorities, it is not acceptable that sharia is simply a source of law because it must be considered the law. so my question is this: what does the european union think, that the new state of national unity that the un is working on with your moral support because you in libya are not there, there are the services thank god italian, french and other countries working we hope very well. there is no europe! are you preparing us for a future in a beautiful state where sharia law is the only law?
there is a question for you from mr chauprade, do you accept the question?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the most difficult phase and we should all be aware of this. it is essential that the european union exert all the pressure necessary to achieve agreement between the various libyan components, and the deadline must be 20 october, it cannot go beyond that. the final stage is difficult, but all parties must be made to understand that those who are exempted will have to assume a great deal of responsibility, including for their future recognition. and i must say frankly that in this context it was not a brilliant idea to have now opened the discussion at the un about replacing the current un negotiator bernardino león, but now instead to help bernardino león in this final phase to reach an agreement without which not only will the problems in the region increase, but also in europe. i am thinking of the risks associated with the enlargement of the conflict and the fact that terrorism is becoming even more powerful. i am thinking of the hundreds of thousands of people who have fled libya and are now near the tunisian border, in very difficult conditions for them and for tunisia itself, and i am thinking, finally, of the smuggling of migrants. the agreement in libya is therefore an undeniable necessity today and i hope that the european union will do everything possible to achieve this agreement. we have only a few days left, so make the most of it. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is "blue card". mr president, i think you have misunderstood my speech. i did not criticize the un for what it is doing, i only said that it was wrong to open the discussion on the possibility of replacing bernardino león, the current negotiator, with the german kobler. it was a mistake to open this debate today and it had to be done later, because it would inevitably put the current negotiator in a more precarious position. that is why the criticism of the un was necessary.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, allow me to wish the high representative, who is not here today, a speedy recovery, but i would like to take this opportunity to thank her warmly for the respect and the availability she has shown to this institution, to parliament and to the afet committee, of which i am a member. today we are talking about libya, but let's be frank, countries like libya, somalia, yemen and others are unfortunately today without their own statehood. there are no longer any governments in these countries with which we can seriously engage in dialogue and that is the cause of the problems in these countries. in libya, the situation is much more complex because of clashes between factions, ethnic groups and popular traditions, which have been responsible for a long and bloody civil conflict. in such a situation it is not easy to find reliable interlocutors. the parliament in tripoli is in fact held hostage by a significant number of ultra-orthodox members of parliament and subject to external influence, such as turkey, military leaders claim their legitimacy to power and the government in tobruk is de facto run by egypt and saudi arabia. unfortunately, we are not dealing with one dictator, but with many dictators. in this grave situation the un has done its part with bernardino león, who has persevered in initiating a series of important meetings aimed at mending the political fabric torn by a fratricidal war. it is now time for europe to give even stronger support to the un initiative in its efforts to achieve the goal of forming a government. the delicate agreements reached at the end of september must be monitored day by day in order to be durable. that is why we must work as europe to ensure that the work of león continues as far as possible. if we as europe really want to play a leading role in bringing stability and security to libya, we must make the effort to bring together, not only local actors, but above all countries like egypt, turkey, saudi arabia, which together with the western powers, the united states and russia put an end to a crisis that has been going on for too long. i would like to ask you, mr president, who is also the president of the euro-mediterranean council, to try to bring back a serious debate in this house and to put the euro-mediterranean question back at the centre of our policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are at a decisive stage for the future of libya. in these hours, the parties could find a compromise for a government of national unity, on the basis of the agreement defined in recent months, thanks to the fundamental work of bernardino león and with the support of our high representative mogherini. the whole world is waiting to see whether there is a real political will on the part of the representatives of tobruk and tripoli to go all the way. many of the news from this hour are not entirely encouraging, as mr gomes also mentioned. many problems remain to be resolved, from the representativeness of the partners, to the management of the implementation of the agreement, to the growing humanitarian emergency in the country, to the crucial need to re-establish a security framework in an area of conquest for the islamic state and theatre of trafficking of all kinds. the situation is still very tense, but it is our duty to continue to support all diplomatic efforts without ever easing the political pressure on the parties towards the restoration of state authority, national pacification, which is necessarily in the hands and choices of the libyans in the last resort. we cannot allow such a strategic country in the region to collapse completely, which would have catastrophic consequences for europe.
member of the commission on behalf of the vice—president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, thank you so much for this very rich discussion and for this interesting exchange which i shall convey to the high representative, of course. we shall continue to support the efforts of the united nations support mission in libya (unsmil) in the next few weeks and, of course, we hope that an agreement can be signed by all parties in the coming days. we are confident all the parties involved realise there is no time to waste and that the time has come to think about libya’s future. libya’s economy is already collapsing and its social fabric is being destroyed. we stand ready to sanction those who, during the past year, have proven they were bent on sabotaging the talks. the european union will not accept that libya splits. the european union will not accept that any party takes over and imposes its rule by force. the european union will not accept that libya’s neutral financial institutions – i am thinking of the national oil company, the central bank and the libyan investment agency – cease to be neutral and are engulfed in this partisan struggle. it is their neutrality that has kept the country together – only just – and it is their neutrality that will keep the country together in the future. this is, i think, our moral obligation as the european union.
the debate is closed.
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, honourable members, thank you for this very important and very crucial question because the abolition of the death penalty lies at the heart of our european values. no state should have a right to decide on the life and death of its citizens. we all believe that, and i am quoting, ‘a just and necessary punishment must never exclude the dimension of hope and the goal of rehabilitation’. these are the words pronounced by pope francis in front of the us congress recently. since 1983, the ‘no’ to capital punishment is part of the acquis communautaire, it is part of who we are. it is, then, an honour to address this plenary debate only days away from 10 october, the 13th world and europe day against the death penalty. the end of the death penalty is something that is worth fighting for. let us not forget our own history. still in the 1970s executions took place in western europe and i remember that in one of the big countries a socialist president abolished the death penalty in 1982. behind the iron curtain executions took place till the late 1980s but today the european union is 100% free from capital punishment. things can change. we can and must be a force for this change. so we have to be clear on one thing: never be afraid to raise the issue of abolition as part of our external action. it must be a cornerstone of our own european foreign policy. ten years ago only 59 countries had fully abolished the death penalty. now there are 101 of us. ten years ago, 41 countries carried out executions. in 2014 the number went down to 22, a lot less, although still too many. many countries have ended capital punishments in practice. others have taken steps to narrow the scope of the death penalty. today 140 countries are abolitionist in law or in practice. however, the grim side of the statistics is that still in 2015 thousands of people were executed or sentenced to death and thousands of people are on death row worldwide. and the number of death sentences went up between 2013 and 2014, a scary statistic. you mentioned it in your presentation. the abolition of the death penalty worldwide requires all our best energies, all our political commitment. the use of the death penalty for drug offences is a very emblematic and cruel aspect of death penalty use. the international human rights law is clear: drug crimes do not constitute most serious crimes for which capital punishment may be prescribed. unfortunately, many asian countries still retain the death penalty for those crimes, including as a mandatory form of punishment. in iran at least 75% out of this year’s 660 executions have been related to drug crimes. on a smaller but still significant scale, the same happens in saudi arabia and other countries. but this is not the only worrying trend. the death penalty is still applied for crimes which again fall outside the category of most serious ones. this includes economic crimes, apostasy, adultery or even sexual relationships between consenting adults. furthermore, despite explicit international law provisions, some countries sentence and even execute minors and mentally disabled persons. we also cannot ignore the fact that many death sentences are the products of unfair trials, often without appeals, guarantee or clemency procedures. some countries resort to the cruellest of execution methods such as public beheadings or crucifixions, and many refuse to notify the families of death row inmates prior to executions. let there be no doubt the eu is a leading actor in the abolitionist cause. abolition is embodied in strong, rigorous and effective eu guidelines on the matter. the fight against the death penalty features as a top priority in the new action plan on human rights and democracy which we adopted last july. throughout 2015 the eu has used all diplomatic tools to advance the cause of worldwide abolition. we condemn the continuing extensive use of the death penalty in parts of the world some of which are at our doorstep. iran, iraq, saudi arabia, pakistan, indonesia, belarus, egypt, japan, singapore, china, vietnam and the united states of america were a particular focus of attention. more than 30 statements were issued and demarches were carried out in many other countries, based on the minimum standards defined by international law and the eu guidelines on that penalty. we have been the most vocal advocate of abolition worldwide. still, i know some of you believe the eu has not always been as loud as it should be. let me be frank: condemnation is important but it is often not enough. ultimately, i believe there is no alternative to engagement with those who do not share our views and values. this is the most effective contribution we can give to the cause of abolition. for this reason, we are intensifying our dialogue with the most fervent retentionist countries at all levels. we are constantly stepping up efforts, especially in countries where there is a spike in executions or the reintroduction of capital punishment, sometimes after decades of moratorium. our individual human rights country strategies have identified the abolition of the death penalty as a top priority in all retentionist countries. our political or dedicated human rights dialogues constantly feature the issue on their agendas, even when we meet with like-minded countries such as the united states or japan. let me assure you that the question of the death penalty is raised with all interlocutors concerned, beyond any strategic considerations. we are talking to our counterparts in pakistan, iran, saudi arabia and also other countries, and we make it clear that the death penalty is not a remedy to terrorism or criminality, or a question of justice for the victim’s family. we will keep on this double track: challenge and engage. bilateral relations are not the only forum for raising this kind of issue. we are also exploring our regional connections. for example, we are conscious that africa represents the biggest concentration of countries which are abolitionist in practice, and it could potentially become the next death-free continent after europe. this is why the eu actively supported the recent steps taken by the african union towards the adoption of an additional protocol to the african charter on human and peoples’ rights on the abolition of the death penalty. we are currently planning a regional campaign on the asian continent with the aim of animating the public debate on the question of the right to life and human dignity. on an even bigger stage, the eu has worked extensively on the united nations general assembly resolution on a moratorium on executions. i am proud to say that, thanks to the eu’s extensive lobbying and support, the moratorium was adopted in december 2014 with an unprecedented number of 117 votes in favour and a record number of 95 co-sponsors. the eu can be a beacon for abolitionists worldwide but we need to build partnerships on a global scale to succeed, and our success on the moratorium tells us something; we are not alone in this fight. mr president, i would like to take the opportunity to express my gratitude for the european parliament’s constant and fervent dedication to the abolitionist cause. this is reflected in numerous resolutions and dedicated debates but also in missions in third countries where honourable members do not shy away from raising the issue of executions, even with the most difficult interlocutors. we can count on a global network of partners advancing human dignity, and the global moratorium on the death penalty is at the core of our foreign policy. this is about the foundations and the fundamental values of europe, and we will keep engaging with our partners on this issue for a world where no state can dispose of the life of its citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the death penalty is the most cruel, inhuman and degrading punishment, it violates the right to life and, whatever form it takes, it remains a violent punishment that has no place in today's criminal justice system. in many countries governments justify the use of the death penalty by claiming that it is a deterrent to violent crime, makes society safer, reduces drug-related crime, is enforceable because it is supported by the majority of public opinion, and provides the best cost-effective solution to violent crime. many argue that abolition of the death penalty causes a higher crime rate, but studies in canada, for example, refute this theory. in 2003, 27 years after the abolition of the death penalty, the murder rate in canada had dropped by 44 percent. far from making society safer, the death penalty has proven to have a brutalizing effect on society, being the ultimate sanction a state can inflict on a person, only serving to condone the use of force and to persist in the cycle of violence. once criminals are aware that they have committed a capital crime, they have no interest in reducing their potential, or committing new murders or crimes. if, for example, armed robbery carries the death penalty, the robber has nothing to lose by killing any witnesses during his escape attempt. at the same time, it should be remembered that the use of the death penalty for drug-related offences is a violation of international law. countries that execute people for drug-related offences include indonesia, saudi arabia, china, iran, malaysia and singapore, and there is no clear evidence that the use of the death penalty for these offences acts as a more effective deterrent than long-term imprisonment. i believe that politics must assert its leadership by putting human rights first, opposing the death penalty and explaining to its voters why these actions cannot be taken by a state. amnesty international research shows that public support for the death penalty is based primarily on the desire to be free from crime. and here again, polls conducted in the united states, for example, say that support for the death penalty dropped from 65 percent to 48 percent when life imprisonment was proposed as an option. finally, society cannot accept violence and the sacrifice of human rights as a cost-saving measure. the decision to take a human life should not be based on economic considerations . using the death penalty to reduce the prison population is a futile argument. the united states, for example, has a prison population of two and a half million people, of which 3,000 are on death row, and if they were all convicted and killed, it would not change anything about the prison population. the european union must take decisive action to abolish the death penalty everywhere.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it seems clear to me that the death penalty is the most degrading, the highest violation of human rights. i agree with what the chairman of the subcommittee on human rights, mr valenciano, said in the opening remarks. now, here's the thing. i'd make a little reasoning. we are accustomed to thinking, here in europe, that the death penalty is something medieval, something ancient. we're assuming that it doesn't exist anymore. we have a great deal of trade with countries where the death penalty is on the agenda, and i would like to refer in particular to what we consider to be our closest, not to say our friendliest, country, from which we have received the most influence, namely the united states of america, from which we have taken economic policy, from which we take influence in all respects. i am not saying that the death penalty is a crime, but i am saying that it is a crime, and i am not saying that it is a crime, but i am saying that it is a crime, and i am not saying that it is a crime. this should make us think.
thank you, mr president, i think it would be more interesting to continue the debate. (the speaker refuses to answer a question on the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the abolition of the death penalty is one of europe's great achievements, but even today, in view of the hundreds of executions recorded in the last year in more than 20 countries, it is a goal, a mission to be pursued with determination in the rest of the world. respect for human dignity and respect for life are universal values which we have a duty to promote by all the peaceful and legitimate means at our disposal, by applying pressure on governments with equal rigor in all countries and by considering the most effective general and specific measures to promote reform of legislation and, in the meantime, to block the execution of sentences which have not yet been carried out, to encourage their amendment and to prevent new death sentences from being handed down. it is a matter of consistency and we must not fear that our due commitment to the death penalty may be seen as an undue interference or a form of cultural imperialism, so to speak. there can be no tolerance for the death penalty, which is certainly not justice.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 2 october was world day against the death penalty. it is another sad day, partly because we regret to note that he is still in excellent health in the friends' club, where the degradation of that crime against humanity called the death penalty is practised. we have the most civilised friends of europe, such as the united states and japan. we also have our strategic allies, saudi arabia, egypt, pakistan, belarus, which is also in europe, a stone's throw from us, and this terrible moral and ethical degradation is often used to punish political opponents, to punish, therefore, in essence, the right to oppose. the nuclear agreement with iran, which we welcome, must not be reduced to another free-for-all for investment and wild trade, but must instead be a key instrument for a constructive approach and progress on human rights, because almost 700 death sentences have been handed down in iran, not to mention the more than 1 200 in china, which has always been seen as a major trading partner. what we could do if we used trade and economics as a tool to strengthen human rights and not the other way around. europe must once again be europe, must fight this shame and must pronounce the only just death sentence, that of the death penalty itself.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, often citizens, small and mediumsized enterprises, give up their legal rights because of the costs and complications of crossborder legal proceedings. the reform of the small claims procedure was aimed precisely at further simplifying and broadening the access to justice. an ambitious goal that we share. the commission's proposal was already acceptable, but the juri committee, with the sole exception of the limits set for the value of the dispute, has further improved the text by also providing for adequate judicial guarantees for citizens, especially those without adequate economic means. the text which has come out of the trilogy is unfortunately a step backwards. we do not agree with the ceiling of eur 5 000 on the value of disputes and the abolition of the amendment which provided for a minimum income threshold below which a party is not required to pay court costs. finally, the text of the trilogue appears to be distorted, contrary to the very idea of simplification, which is probably a missed opportunity to guarantee the right to justice of citizens and at the same time to lighten the burden of ordinary judgments pending in the courts of europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this regulation is an important tool for citizens and small and mediumsized enterprises, and the changes agreed by the european institutions are positive because they improve its effectiveness and broaden its scope, and also set out a possible path for further steps forward in the future. this is an important result for parliament, i said, because it is improving the increasingly effective procedures available to citizens and businesses, procedures which can be implemented throughout the european union. this is in addition to the steps forward on this major challenge made in the last legislature, for example on the issue of the conservative attachment of debtors' assets, thanks to parliament's commitment once again. these issues may seem minor, but they are essential to create in citizens a real perception of being part of a journey and a community, part of a common project and to improve their material living conditions in an environment where cross-border movement, relations and activities are increasingly common within the european union, as are increasingly frequent court cases that have effects and implications for those who work between countries. we must now implement these rules, starting with the need to respond further to the needs of cross-border workers.
member of the commission.– madam president, i am pleased to participate in this debate on behalf of my colleague, commissioner vella, who unfortunately cannot be here this evening. the directive to reduce pollution from medium combustion installations is a key component of the commission’s clean air policy package presented in december 2013. it is an important deliverable for the 7th environmental action programme, which would help to reduce significantly the potential risks to human health, a programme that i am very familiar with, which was adopted during the irish presidency in 2013. air pollution degrades our environment and it remains the number one environmental cause of death in the eu. it causes 400 000 premature deaths and more than 100 000 lost working days in the eu each year. the medium combustion plants directive will close an unacceptable gap in our legislation and will thus make an important contribution to reaching the future reduction targets as proposed in the amendment to the national emission ceilings directive that is still on the table for the co-legislators. on behalf of my colleague, commissioner vella, let me thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr grzyb, and his colleagues from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) for their commitment and hard work on this proposal. thanks to the work of the parliament negotiating team, it has been possible to maintain the environmental integrity of the proposed directive, whilst addressing justified cases where member states needed flexibility for implementation. the flexibility provisions that cover district heating and the use of biomass as a fuel, which are two major issues for parliament, will ensure that climate and air quality policies are consistent and their synergies are maximised. parliament also made clear that certain further issues are important, such as energy efficiency and carbon monoxide emissions. the commission will address these under the agreed review clauses. allow me also to point out that the medium combustion plants directive is a good example of better regulation. it has been designed to be affordable for smes and it provides long-term certainty for all economic operators concerned, while minimising the administrative burden for both industry and member states. finally, i would like to underline that, beyond being environmentally efficient, this directive promotes advanced eu technology. it will encourage continued innovation and help eu industry gain shares of the rapidly growing global market in pollution control technology. the commission thus fully supports the compromise, although i have to make a declaration on the use of the no-opinion clause for the adoption of implementing acts.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner hogan, i would first of all like to thank rapporteur grzyb and all the colleagues who have worked hard to achieve this agreement which allows us to have european legislation and emission limits for a sector which until now was unregulated. i also thank the commissioner and the presidency for the spirit of cooperation they have shown throughout the whole process of the proposal. the proposal, as the rapporteur has pointed out, concerns medium combustion plants, 150 000 plants in europe with a rated thermal output of between 1 and 50 megawatts, and is designed to make a significant contribution to reducing pollution by setting limit values for existing and new plants and also by establishing a registration system which can enable member states to comply with their emission reduction obligations. the aim, of course, is to preserve air quality and thus the health of citizens from possible factors of increasing air pollution. the text represents a compromise between the different positions, but in general an agreement was reached which partly amended the commission's proposal, improving the possibilities of realistically implementing the directive, allowing it to achieve the objective of improving air quality in the european union, without, however, imposing excessive burdens on companies. among the most important points are the obligation for member states to assess the need to apply stricter emission limit values in areas not complying with union air quality standards and the inclusion of a review clause to verify progress in 2020 in terms of energy efficiency of combustion plants. these efforts are part of the wider preparations for cop21 in paris, to confirm the european union as the main actor in the fight against climate change, and we hope that an ambitious agreement will be reached, also thanks to the commitment of all parties involved.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. we are finally filling a glaring regulatory gap, over 142 000 firms with combustion plants between 1 and 50 megawatts were lacking clear regulation. we are talking about plants for the production of electricity, for heating, for cooling, for the production of steam in industrial processes. we're talking about sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, particulate matter. this is what we're talking about. an important step forward in tackling air pollution more effectively. we will never forget it - the commissioner said earlier - the leading cause of death in europe - one of the main causes of eutrophication, with 62% of the european union's surface at risk. that is not all that we as a group of socialists and democrats would have wanted. it is certainly a step forward, a reasonable agreement that protects our health and that of the planet, without harming european businesses. we have made clear choices, i recall a few, we have extended the scope of monitoring to include carbon monoxide, we have reached a reasonable compromise on emission limit values on implementation times, the obligation for member states to assess the need for stricter measures for areas above the limits for air quality, reduction of derogations and then a compromise on a slightly longer implementation times for plants that are part of biomass-fired heating networks. it is for all these reasons that tomorrow we as a group of socialists and democrats will support this measure with conviction.
on behalf of the efdd group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is implemented. the amendments made by parliament have even weakened the commission's proposal, but above all they have excluded offshore oil platforms and biomass-fired plants from the legislation, which can thus pollute without limits, and if we are talking about employment, the real competitiveness of companies lies in their capacity for ecological innovation and therefore in the use of new sources of clean and free energy, and instead, with the usual excuse that this is better than nothing, we are paying yet another bribe to the power plant industry and the oil multinationals.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my full support for this very important measure. firstly, as already mentioned, a legislative gap is being filled, since medium combustion plants up to 50 megawatts are not regulated at european level, although they account for 80% of the total, are used for a very large number of applications and produce about a third of the emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and polluting particles. air pollution has a major impact on the health of citizens and on the costs of national health systems. the final text is a good result, thanks also to the work done by the rapporteur - to whom i am grateful - by our shadow rapporteur, mr massimo paolucci, and by the minister for the environment, mr galletti, during the italian presidency. a bold proposal which, applied gradually to both new and existing plants, is intended to make a significant contribution to reducing pollution, without, however, imposing an excessive burden on our undertakings.
the reporter. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in march 2014 the european commission presented the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to casein and caseinates intended for human consumption and repealing council directive 83/417/eec, on the basis of article 114 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. tomorrow's vote is essentially a vote on a technical matter, but it has consequences for citizens and consumers, and i have therefore worked on this proposal very carefully, together with my shadow rapporteurs, whom i thank for the excellent cooperation that has enabled us to reach a final agreement with the council in a very short time. we have generally welcomed the commission's proposal and have considered it appropriate to amend certain aspects of it. the commission proposal provides for the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to certain milk proteins intended for human consumption. however, several changes have occurred since the entry into force of the directive, in particular the development of a broad regulatory framework in the food sector and the adoption of an international codex alimentarius regulation on casein-based food products. the production of milk casein and milk caseinates was subject to a subsidy scheme within the union until 2006. the scheme was therefore terminated and was subsequently definitively repealed by the 2013 political agreement on the reform of the single common organisation of the market in agricultural products. on 24 february 2015, the envi committee adopted six amendments to the commission proposal and we worked to lay the foundations for offering food business operators equal treatment on the world market, taking into account the adaptation of the composition requirements for food caseins and caseinates defined in the annexes to the codex alimentarius standard. in particular, the proposal aims to align the powers conferred on the commission with the distinction between delegated and implementing acts introduced by the treaty on the functioning of the union, to update the provisions applicable to caseins and caseinates, taking into account eu legislation adopted in the meantime, in particular that applicable to foodstuffs, and to bring the compositional requirements for caseins into line with the international standard. following agreement with the council, the final text provides for the maximum moisture content of casein to be fixed at 12%, compared with 10% previously, and the maximum fat content of casein milk at 2% compared with 2.25%. this will allow for a rapid future adaptation to international standards and technical progress. although the products covered by the proposal are not intended for direct sale to the final consumer but for sale between food preparation businesses, it is important that food business operators have the necessary data for the labelling of finished products, in particular as regards allergens. the proposal therefore includes provisions on the labelling of caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption, so that their presence is indicated visibly, legibly and indelibly. if the required information is not provided on packaging, containers or labels, the products concerned may not be marketed or used for the preparation of foodstuffs. it is clear that this will enable final consumers to make informed choices, particularly in the case of food allergies and intolerances, and this confirms once again our action to protect european consumers and their health. with tomorrow's vote, europe has put a great deal of emphasis on food issues, with a particular focus on food security, which is always at the heart of our political agenda.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we needed safe food to circulate in our markets, we needed consumer confidence in the minimum content of casein and caseinates and we also needed safe sales with labelling that gave all the necessary information to the consumer, particularly as regards allergens. this information will now be mandatory and casein and caseinated food products will only be marketed with the appropriate labels on the packaging and containers. we have also ensured that a label can be used which clearly indicates a higher quality level of dairy products which have a higher content of lactoproteins, a mechanism which stimulates the production of higher quality products without any additional burden on the farms. we therefore regard this proposal as a positive one and will vote in favour of it.
i have to say, madam president, as several speakers have already said, this dossier is a very technical dossier and i think that there is little to be said about updating the eu rules on food caseinates and adapting them to the codex alimentarius. i would therefore like to return to the question raised earlier, namely the use of casein and milk powder in cheese-making. we have, as you know, in italy - i come from italy - a law that prohibits this. the european commission is now determined to lift this ban. in italy, we assume that cheese is made from milk. if the same commission which a few weeks ago proposed a report to this house so that member states could ban the import of genetically modified organisms into their territory, and then said that this was not relevant to the internal market, now claims that the ban on the addition of milk powder and casein to cheese is relevant to the internal market, then i no longer understand the world. i would therefore ask you, commissioner, to take a second look at this. the european union as a whole is not in a position to afford such things. if you look at the debates in italy, i think it is good that we end this as soon as possible and allow the italians to produce cheese from milk and not from milk powder or casein.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, first of all i would like to say that i appreciate the efforts which the commission is making in the field of food safety. as we know, the consequences of food consumption on human health can only be assessed in the long term, and that is why i am in favour of legislative proposals such as the one we are discussing, which seek to integrate community legislation into the wider framework of international food law. however, if it is true that these amendments are intended to simplify the exchange of information between food businesses, it is equally true that this measure will also and above all have an impact on the information on the label that the final consumers will be able to obtain. labelling requirements for caseins and caseinates will allow consumers to make informed and informed choices, particularly in the case of food allergies or intolerances. i believe that the text we are voting on tomorrow is a positive text which can give a boost to the value of milk products on the market, especially if they are intended for processing into cheese, with the awareness that the challenge of quality must be continually pursued in order to ensure safety standards.
madam president, i would like to commend the rapporteur and the commission on the proposal for a directive they have put forward. i support this proposal and i agree with what most of my speakers have said. this proposal is not about a new bureaucratic regulation that bullies or in any way complicates the lives of european citizens or companies operating in europe. it is, on the contrary, a regulation that will strengthen the internal market and unify rules that are either non-uniform or obsolete, since they date back to the early 1980s. although i am reluctant to extend the scope of the european union and to over-bureaucratize, i strongly support this regulation because it will bring uniform and clear rules for the entire food industry in the european union. it's been said here a number of times, and i think the industry welcomes this. i myself have spoken about this draft directive in my country, the czech republic, with some representatives of the food industry, and they have seen these clear rules as a good incentive to be able to see clearly what is being decided on. i think it's very good that we're basing this on expert opinion, on technical standards developed by the international codex alimentarius organization. it is good that we are accepting the exact specification of what casein food acid, casein food sweet should look like and that, as i said, this will increase the confidence of the producers. in addition, it is also very good that there will be a clear duty of information for individual manufacturers in relation to those who use casein in their products. ultimately, this will also benefit the end-user, who will be informed whether the product contains casein, as we know that some users are allergic to this substance. i agree with the motion and support it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we certainly welcome the report by mr la via, whom i thank above all for his cultural approach. the reasons for the business system to demand rules that make the international market accessible must intersect with our great ambition to make the final consumers ever safer. the challenge is therefore to provide for rules on competition, for the free movement of foodstuffs whose quality and safety will be further traced and thus guaranteed.
member of the commission.– madam president, i welcome the overwhelming support for the proposal, and again i wish to thank the rapporteur, mr la via, and the shadow rapporteurs for their work. i just have two remarks that, i suppose, i should make. one of the italian issues that was raised by a number of speakers from italy concerned a matter that goes back in regulatory form to 1974 – so a little bit before my time – but has nevertheless raised its head because of an objection and a complaint brought before the commission by an italian company, which is the subject of investigation at the moment. the matter will hopefully be clarified in due course, but i want to undertake that we will send a note of the present state of play to the various individuals who are here from the italian delegation, in order to clarify the situation as of now. in relation to the question raised by my good friend mr serrão santos on the azores, the labelling issues are a matter for my colleague, commissioner andriukaitis, but i am aware of the reports which came down against mandatory labelling. i am sure that you are aware of them as well. voluntary labelling is available for member states if they wish to proceed on that basis, but it is a rather contentious matter because you have to respect the fact that we are in an internal market, with a common agricultural policy, where the free movement of goods and services are actually appropriate vis-à-vis consumers. but i understand where you are coming from: from the position of the azores where the high-quality products that you have there – which get the recognition of 26% of the consumer market in dairy products in mainland portugal – represent quite a significant industry. i am sure that, from the point of view of your producers in the azores and from that perspective of high-quality products, you would be very pleased to have labelling. but it is not yet universally accepted around the european union.
the reporter. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i believe that the debate in this house has been constructive and above all that it has shown a broad convergence of all the political groups towards the commission proposal as amended by parliament and agreed and agreed with the council. the trilogue and trilogues we have had to reach agreement have been swift and rapid, a clear sign that there was a shared position, but there was also a desire to have a new regulatory framework that was more appropriate to the times and in line with what the market needs. i am sure that there will be a broad convergence of votes in this parliament tomorrow on this proposal and i hope that the legislative procedure can be concluded in a short time to have a regulatory framework useful to all the companies in europe dealing with casein and caseinates, but above all useful to ensure a better information framework for consumers.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, from the tone of many of the speeches that have preceded me, it seems that the problem we are discussing is the advance of the taliban, but i think we should stop and think about the meaning of the words peacekeeping or peace wars, peace missions, because you can just do a simple google search and type "nato error" or "nato friendly fire" and you will find tens, hundreds if not thousands of errors, of wrong attacks and civilian deaths. so we should probably start calling them by their proper name: war crimes. so let's stop and think for a moment about what we can do about this attack in kunduz, where civilians died, where operators died who were there trying to save lives. we demand an independent, full and transparent investigation, but it must be fruitful because these dead, who were attacked by the united states of america, will not come back to life, so it is right that those who have done wrong pay, and that is what we must demand here this morning.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's reply is evasive, it seemed to be a speech drawn from the musings of the jesuit jurists of the seventeenth century. it is difficult to understand what europe thinks about this: it's a mistake, it's a war crime. something that this europe which is always talking about its values should tell you. it is true that 70 years later we still do not know whether the phosphorus bombing of civilians in dresden was a crime, or perhaps the bomb dropped on the children of the gorla school in milan, but something, going back to the present, europe should also have the courage to say. as mr manzoni said, if you do not have courage, you cannot give it to others, and you, mr president of the european union, seem to me to be the don abbondio of the situation.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, syria 2015, the balance of power in the middle east is being tested on the terrain of this endless proxy war. no one is prepared to give in to what is now a stalemate, neither russia, which wants to avoid yet another pro-nato regime change and maintain its bases in the mediterranean, nor iran, which does not want to lose its coreligious ally, even though it may be more malleable after the nuclear agreement, and certainly not the united states, france and britain, terrified of the idea of recognizing yet another strategic defeat, nor saudi arabia and the sunni gulf states, which have much to reproach for their support for islamist militias. the un is powerless, the eu does not yet know exactly what course to take. the solution, ladies and gentlemen, is not assad, but it must also involve an agreement with assad and his supporters, if we are to be realistic. if many had realized this earlier, perhaps the war would not have lasted four years, we would not have had millions of refugees and we would not be in a seemingly hopeless drama. can you figure that out before a proxy war unwittingly degenerates into an iran-arab war or, worse, a third world war?
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i wonder where mrs mogherini is, who is supposed to represent us, she obviously has other commitments. secondly, i would like to thank russia, which is the only country defending the principles of peace and coexistence with force where necessary, and i would ask my colleagues if anyone really thinks that dialogue with the islamic thugs is possible, if anyone realistically thinks that those who crucify and burn people alive can be the subject of dialogue. it is obvious to anyone who wants to understand, that there is a forced islamization going on, because otherwise instead of going thousands of kilometers they could be hosted in saudi arabia, in the gulf countries that have space, that have money, that have wealth, that have cultural affinities, obviously it is a forced process. today is october 7th, october 7th, 1571, thanks to the venetians, europe and christianity were saved from as many forced islamizations. i would not like to see what we avoided centuries ago happening today with the complicity of this useless and absent parliament. (the president agreed to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the problem with mrs mogherini, to whom i wish the best, is that even when she is well and present she is as if she were absent, she is totally useless to herself and to the citizens she is supposed to represent, so, hoping that she recovers soon, i also hope that there is someone who actually represents the interests of the european union in the world, not just with a phone call when things have already happened. (the president agreed to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is "blue card". your honour, i answer you with the words of a christian priest who fled syria not from assad but from islamic terrorists who tells me assad is not the best, we are all convinced of it, isis is worse. if someone in this room equates assad with isis, he needs to be treated and hospitalized because he's dangerous.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that russia's initiative does not and will not bring stability or resolve the conflict with the islamic state. we have credibility, we europe, we eu, we especially with the leadership of federica mogherini, we have a role and a function to spend in the coming weeks and months, because it is necessary that the word returns to politics, to diplomacy. it's not enough to have actions and armies. we must resume dialogue with the united states, russia and the countries of the region to restore balance and to ensure three fundamental things. a relentless drive to defeat isis militarily and politically across the region. secondly, to ensure a transitional period. we need, we know from the history of these months and these years that leaving gaps, libya there teaches us, means opening the door to let's say other solutions. so we need to ensure a transition and that needs assad and beyond assad. and finally, the big issue of refugees... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a very complex war is being fought in syria and unfortunately the decision of the russian government to intervene militarily in this scenario does not help, but rather only complicates the situation and aggravates the crisis. the war in syria has been going on for more than four years and is largely responsible for the humanitarian catastrophe that is consuming europe's doorstep. millions of people have been displaced in recent years and 220,000 people have been killed, in a war that has become increasingly confusing and complicated and whose political solution seems to be still far off. we absolutely need a diplomatic solution. europe must continue to work in this direction and we cannot repeat the mistakes of the past in syria, and i am thinking, for example, of what happened in libya. it is necessary to facilitate a political transition that will free the country from dictatorship and at the same time avoid the abyss of political vacuum, because as history has amply demonstrated, the exclusive use of weapons can only leave rubble and chaos.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– madam president, first i would like to thank parliament for this very rich debate and for all the views which you have expressed and which have reflected not only the complexity but also the dangers of this conflict. we are all aware that the internal and external dimensions of this conflict just make it more complex and that there is no easy solution. but we are also all aware that ending the syrian conflict is deeply in the eu’s interest because it affects the stability of our southern neighbourhood, not to mention the refugee crisis which we talked about a lot yesterday. the union is therefore actively working on finding a solution – a political solution – to the syrian conflict, as i mentioned and as i described in my previous intervention. the eu needs, indeed, to do everything on the political and diplomatic front to contribute to that end, and certainly combating the terrorist groups – notably isis – is a very important element in that. we are also very committed to actively supporting the un-led peace efforts. we have to talk to all external actors involved in this conflict, including russia. how can we now come to a solution now without talking to the russians? but we must make clear that russia has to commit to finding a political solution that is inclusive and will strengthen, not weaken, the fight against terrorism. talking of a political solution, what do we mean by that? our long—standing position is that a lasting solution to the conflict can be achieved only through a syrian-led political process leading to a transition. these are the terms of the geneva communiqué. for that to be realised will require the consent of all the syrian parties, since geneva foresees the participation of all groups and segments of society in syria.
in writing. resolving the situation in syria in concrete terms also becomes crucial to helping to resolve the migration situation. so far, the lack of a political perspective for syria has increased the pressure of syrian asylum seekers on europe. as we have always said, the real solution to the problem of the massive influx of refugees, of the boats that are being overturned at sea, of the thousands of people drowning off our coasts, is a political solution, within the framework of a regional agreement for the stabilization of syria and iraq. the syrian transition must be credible and realistic, which is why we must support the plan of un envoy staffan de mistura, a gradual and flexible plan which includes a ceasefire, the formation of an inclusive government and, at the same time, a joint military council. it is essential to initiate a path towards a political transition, so that the operations against daesh (isis) can be framed in a context of pacification of syria and its state institutions.
in writing. in recent months, the syrian crisis has become increasingly geopolitical for the european union, both because of the humanitarian and migration implications of the crisis and because of the direct intervention of some international powers, including russia, whose unilateral actions in recent days risk further complicating the difficult peace process and destabilising an increasingly complex area. the european union must therefore play a more active role in the region and consolidate its political and diplomatic presence in the middle east. the european union must be prepared to take action in the event of a crisis, and to ensure that the situation is not exacerbated by the unilateral actions of the united states. the future of syria cannot remain in the hands of the government of bashar al-assad. i am confident that european diplomacy and the high representative will work hard to facilitate a necessary political transition involving all parties, guaranteeing lasting stability in the country and preventing power vacuums, which could be dangerously exploited by the fundamentalist terrorism of the islamic state.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, hundreds of hdp party offices burned, dozens of people lynched by the mob, hundreds of wounded, arrests of politicians, bombing of civilian villages marked by actions against daesh, torture and unspeakable violence, do we share this with turkey, mr schmidt? do you think there will be credible elections in turkey in november? because this is the bulletin of a war declared by erdogan and his loyalists against the kurdish people, guilty of having reached 10 per cent for the first time in the last elections, of having entered parliament and thus preventing him from overturning the constitution, but yesterday this agreement was concluded and announced, useful with the turks to deal with immigration and so it is better to place immigrants there, away from our eyes and our consciences. the suspicion that the increase in the flow of money in recent months was not accidental is more than legitimate. for erdogan a diplomatic masterpiece, for europe, a masterpiece of hypocrisy, both of the kurds and of the turkish civil society activists we will talk again in the future if they are useful. therefore, the brave turks fighting against daesh can now safely abandon themselves and sacrifice. no, colleagues, we cannot accept this. yes to peaceful relations but no to silence, because if the price of the agreement is the freedom of the kurds, of the activists and our dignity as europeans, we do not want to pay it.
thank you, we join in the mourning, in the memory also of all the victims of the invasion of hungary in 1956. we remember this man, but we also remember all those who fell in the name of freedom through him.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote in the european parliament. the ecr group already tabled a similar amendment in 2014 for the 2015 calendar. on that occasion president schulz considered the amendment inadmissible, considering that it would be contrary to the case law on the application of protocol no 6 on the seats of the institutions. at the request of his group, the president sought the opinion of the legal service, which, however, confirmed the president's interpretation. so having been declared inadmissible, as in 2014 i am not interrupting you but i do not like to be interrupted by you since i am answering a legal question posed by a member of parliament and a political group, please listen to what the presidency intends to communicate to the political group that has raised a legitimate and legally relevant issue. i was saying that since the amendment which you and your group have tabled for next year's calendar, being analogous or identical to that amendment, having been declared inadmissible by the president, and then the choice of the president confirmed by the legal service, the presidency cannot but consider the same amendment tabled this year inadmissible. so there will be no vote. therefore, as no amendment has been tabled in plenary concerning the calendar of the 2017 partsession proposed by the conference of presidents and announced in plenary on monday 5 october 2016, i declare the calendar of the partsession for 2017 adopted.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc.
that concludes the voting.
in writing. ‒ abstention, no major news for 2017.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, the proposal from the conference of presidents continues the absurd circus that takes place every month when meps travel from brussels to strasbourg for plenary sessions. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ the 2017 calendar is essentially the same as the 2016 calendar with the necessary changes. of course, i would have preferred to avoid spending public money to go to strasbourg 12 times in 2017 as well. it is a waste, and it is unjustified and unjustifiable, because if i want to visit strasbourg (which i recommend because i think it is a very nice city) i do not have to be forced to do so, but i do want it to be a pleasure.
in writing. ‒ i hereby confirm my approval of the european parliament calendar for the year 2017.
in writing. ‒ i abstain because i find it really embarrassing that we as a parliament cannot choose on the issue of dual seats.
in writing. we have today approved the calendar of plenary sessions for 2017. the fact that we have already drawn up a timetable of activities confirms the efficiency of the highest representative body in europe and allows us to organise our parliamentary mandate in the best possible way. however, i take this opportunity to point out that i am a firm supporter of the campaign for the so-called single seat, that is to say a single seat for this parliament, in brussels. a single location would result in lower operating costs, with an annual saving of around eur 180 million, and a reduction in co2 emissions from the transport of people and documents.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is going through a political and economic transition. economic and social development plays a central role in the stability of the young democracy that is emerging on the doorstep of europe. this is in line with the country's strong interest in cooperating with the european union, its main partner. the additional protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement with the neighbouring countries lays down the technical and financial arrangements for tunisia's participation in certain eu programmes. the cooperation undertaking covers in particular the fields of education, training, youth and university training. i voted in favour of the agreement with the european union as a means of stimulating inclusive economic growth in the north african country, both at national and international level, and of making it possible for the eu's concrete investment to promote the resources of the country, the cradle of the arab spring.
in writing. ‒ although this is a report with shared content, i see some contradictions in some passages which make it impossible for me to give my full support to this text, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ support for tunisia and the fragile political situation that characterises it are priorities that cannot be postponed. this country, unlike the others involved in the arab spring, is the only one to have initiated a democratic transition which, although very fragile, has great potential for development. the nobel peace prize awarded to the tunisian national dialogue quartet in these hours is a very important recognition of the efforts made to establish an open dialogue and a pluralistic democracy in the state. as we have sadly seen with the attacks on the bardo museum and sousse, the tunisian political experiment has suffered greatly and is being opposed. in this sense europe has the opportunity to play a key role, not only for the economic and democratic development of the country, but also for the stability of the mediterranean area in the interests of european security. i therefore voted in favour of the panzeri report, which calls for closer cooperation between the eu and tunisia, particularly in the fields of training and education and in the operations of the common european security and defence policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe it is essential that tunisia, the cradle of the arab spring and a country in democratic transition, should be supported in its process of transition and transformation. tunisia's participation in union programmes is essential to enable the country to find the stability it needs to grow economically and politically.
in writing. ‒ between december 2010 and the spring of 2011, the phenomenon of social protests and uprisings in the southern and eastern mediterranean that is known in journalism as the "arab spring" developed. the only country where we have seen a democratic and stable conclusion to that historic path is tunisia, the country where the protests originated before spreading to the rest of the arab world. today tunisia is a country in search of a future, a democratic and modern future, where the will of the government and the vast majority of the population who look with friendship at the eu and the west and who see in the eu the first economic and political partner is hampered by the destabilizing actions of jihadist militias who exploit the infrastructure deficiencies, the still existing large pockets of poverty and the low literacy rate of rural areas to carry out the counterrevolutionary and anti-western campaign. it is the union's duty to help tunisia's process of modernisation and democratisation by strengthening its public infrastructure and the role of the civil authorities, in the knowledge that what happens in tunisia will strongly affect the stability and economic and social security of the european union in the coming years.
in writing. - i vote against it. the text is not strong enough to change the situation in tunisia.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this text, which aims to establish financial and technical rules to enable the republic of tunisia to participate in some important european union programmes. among the various countries in the north african region, tunisia is characterised by a strong long-term growth potential. in fact, through the implementation of a series of reforms, it has taken the right direction towards the development of an increasingly open, sustainable and inclusive economy. unfortunately, in recent years the country has had to suffer a considerable deterioration of the economic system as a whole, especially in terms of trade with europe, which remains its main partner. it is therefore essential to make the tunisian question one of the priorities of the european union, by providing for concrete economic commitments and investments, in order to effectively support the country's fragile transition to democracy. the protocol is a cooperation measure which gives tunisia access to the assistance, mainly financial, provided by the eu through its programmes and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ the vote on a protocol to be annexed to the euro-mediterranean agreement to allow tunisia to participate in eu programmes. the commission notes that the tunisian authorities have not provided any evidence that the financial support provided by the union to the tunisian authorities is sufficient to cover the costs of the measures. the protocol lays down the various financial and technical rules for its participation in certain eu programmes. it should be specified that third countries may participate only in certain programmes and where the legal basis of the programme so allows. tunisia will have to contribute financially, like all other countries, to the programmes in which it is to participate. in practice, these are mostly programmes in the fields of university cooperation, youth and education programmes (erasmus+...) as well as several other programmes to foster contacts between civil societies. the european union should support tunisia's emerging democracy, which is one of the few democracies to emerge from the arab spring. the vote is in favour of this protocol because it gives tunisia this possibility, but it will have to pay its share, like all other countries, in order to have access to the programmes. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement on the general principles for the participation of tunisia in union programmes. in recent years, tunisia's economy has deteriorated considerably, both domestically and internationally, especially in terms of trade with europe, which remains its main partner, and the country has been the target of bloody fundamentalist attacks. in order to support tunisia, the european union is committed to supporting its economy and investing in the country. to this end, the eu will step up cooperation in the fields of higher education, general education, training and youth, through programmes such as erasmus+. tunisia should also have the possibility to take part in missions and activities of the european common security and defence policy (csdp).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that it is legitimate, given the interest that tunisia has shown in participating in the wide range of programmes open to partner countries, to seek to improve the economic situation of the country. tunisia also has strong long-term growth potential: the implementation of the planned reforms, combined with existing resources such as human resources and an open economy, allows for the unlocking of this potential, thereby promoting the country's economy in a sustainable manner, despite its economy having deteriorated significantly, both domestically and internationally, especially in terms of trade with europe, which remains its main partner. finally, i fully agree that the tunisian question should become a priority for the eu and that the union should make economic commitments, including through investment, leading to democratic governance. tunisia should also have the opportunity to take part in the missions and activities of the european common security and defence policy.
in writing. ‒ tunisia's participation in eu programmes is a key opportunity in the framework of europe's neighbourhood policy to contribute to the country's modernisation and transition to democracy. so i think it is important for europe to make concrete economic commitments and investments in tunisian territory. the recommendation explicitly states the need for the european union to cooperate with the republic of tunisia, which is a source of strong long-term growth potential if the planned reforms are implemented. it is therefore necessary to provide tunisia with economic, technical and financial assistance to enable it to participate in european programmes which would enable it to begin to develop its full potential. i voted in favour of the recommendation because i believe it is in the interest of both parties to conclude an agreement providing for cooperation between tunisia and the european union in a number of areas, including the economy, education, training and activities of the common european security and defence policy.
in writing. ‒ twenty years after the signature of the eu-tunisia association agreement, which has made a major contribution to strengthening political, commercial, economic, social and cultural relations between tunisia and the eu, the parliament's recommendation, on which i voted in favour, highlights the eu's interest in the only country in the north african region which, despite many difficulties, is facing the difficult transition to full democracy. it is therefore essential that tunisia's participation in union programmes is encouraged and that the eu intensifies cooperation with tunisia in areas such as general and university education, including through programmes such as erasmus+, in the knowledge that the success of the tunisian experiment is in the interest of the entire region and of europe itself.
in writing. ‒ tunisia's current transition to democracy is both an important and a delicate one. the implementation of planned reforms and the exploitation of existing resources are two key elements for tunisia's growth, as they aim to promote the country's economy in a more sustainable and inclusive way. in recent years, however, the tunisian economy has deteriorated considerably and trade with europe, its main partner, has declined considerably. the establishment of democracy will depend on the economic and social development of that country. for these reasons, i think it is important that europe recognizes the importance of the tunisian question and commits itself economically to concrete investments to promote this transition. the success of the european union is in the interest of the whole union.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this report because it also shows the hypocrisy of the eu, which supported and supported the famous arab spring without recognising its negative effects.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement on the general principles for the participation of tunisia in union programmes. the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of tunisia, of the other part, was signed on 17 july 1995 and entered into force on 1 march 1998. the european union must make the tunisian question one of its priorities. the eu-tunisia relations are to be strengthened to achieve a high level of economic integration and to deepen political cooperation, in line with the overall objectives of the euro-mediterranean agreement. action is needed to enable tunisia to develop a fair social policy, to modernise its economic structure, in particular by leveraging innovative high-technology activities, to promote private initiative and public-private partnerships, and to intensify cooperation in the fields of education and common security and defence policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because it is important in the context of the european neighbourhood policy and because i believe that the democratic transition in tunisia is a crucial turning point for the development of the mediterranean and, therefore, of italy. it allows tunisia to participate in european programmes, thus allowing for reform and modernisation of the country. in this way, europe is helping tunisia to develop. the mediterranean is thus back at the centre of european economic and political strategies.
in writing. ‒ given that the tunisian issue is a priority in the european union's policy and also given the economic difficulties facing the republic of tunisia following the events of the arab spring, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement on the general principles for the participation of tunisia in union programmes. tunisia is one of the african countries which in recent years has been working to improve the social situation in terms of fighting terrorism and democracy. unfortunately, however, the tunisian economy has been hit by a crisis which is affecting its trade with europe. the main objective of this report is to intensify cooperation in the fields of higher education, training and youth through programmes such as erasmus+ and other programmes aimed at developing people-to-people contacts.
in writing. ‒ the balanced and shareable report contains concrete proposals that respond to the needs of citizens and small businesses who, due to excessive bureaucracy, have difficulty making their case in small crossborder disputes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the results achieved by the european small claims procedure and the european order for payment procedure are certainly remarkable and that, therefore, the necessary measures should be implemented to extend and consolidate the use of these instruments.
in writing. - i vote for it. the text deals with transnational disputes in which citizens often give up their rights because of the cost, both economic and bureaucratic, of the proceedings.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report, which brings significant improvements to the already effective small claims procedure, which has proved to be a great legal tool that has cut the costs of cross-border disputes by up to 40%, reducing the overall litigation time to an average of 5 months. extending the scope of this procedure would therefore bring considerable benefits to both consumers and smes. the proposed corrections, for example, raise the value-based jurisdiction from the current eur 2 000 to eur 10 000 and bring postal and electronic services for the exchange of documents into line. the maximum limit for legal costs will not exceed 10% of the value of the dispute, thus greatly facilitating access to justice. however, it is necessary to develop clear strategies to make citizens aware of this type of procedure, providing concrete information on how to use it and on the costs they should bear, including through national awareness campaigns. the amendments proposed in this draft report further improve the operation of the procedure for small claims and i have therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 861/2007 of the european parliament and of the council of 11 july 2007 established a european small claims procedure. this regulation applies to crossborder civil and commercial disputes in which the value of the proceedings does not exceed eur 2 000. it was aimed at helping smes and consumers. the european commission's report of 19 november 2013 on the application of that regulation highlighted a wide margin for extending and consolidating the use of that instrument. last april, the juri committee voted on a text which could be considered as an improvement on the european commission's proposal. following the vote in committee, negotiations with the council were opened. unfortunately, the trilogue has made the committee's proposal worse. so i voted against it, along with my colleagues.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure in question. regulation (ec) no 861/2007 of 11 july 2007 on small claims and the european order for payment procedure was designed in particular to help consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) to assert their rights, thereby ensuring access to justice. after five years, the evaluation is positive. the european small claims procedure has reduced the cost of small crossborder disputes by up to 40% and reduced their duration from a maximum of 2 years and 5 months to an average of 5 months. the commission intends to raise the ceiling for small claims which can be settled by the european procedure from the current eur 2 000 to eur 10 000 and to extend the definition to disputes in which the parties are domiciled in the same member state but have another crossborder element, such as the place of performance of the contract, the place where the harmful event occurred or the enforcement of the judgment in another member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation. in recent years it has been shown that the procedure provided for by the directive has indeed proved to be a useful tool, but there is also ample scope to extend, consolidate and improve the use of this tool. the commission proposes to raise the ceiling for small claims, which can be settled by the european procedure, from the current eur 2 000 to eur 10 000. i agree with the commission and with mrs oedenberg on this point, as the proposed increase would have a marginal impact on consumers, as the disputes affecting consumers do not usually exceed eur 2 000, but it would be a major improvement for smes, which i think is of paramount importance.
in writing. ‒ the european small claims procedure is an effective judicial tool as it simplifies and speeds up proceedings in crossborder disputes, reducing the costs and time of litigation. the regulation was designed to make it easier for consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises to enforce their rights by ensuring easier access to justice. however, the low rate of use of the procedure in the various european countries has been found and the reasons for the low use of courts for small claims appear to be the high costs of initiating the judicial procedure and the lack of knowledge of the existence of the procedure. to prevent this phenomenon, which is essentially a lack of confidence and information in the internal market, i welcome the proposed amendments to the regulation, as they would improve the operation of the procedure for small claims. i therefore voted in favour of the report and believe that this procedure can be greatly improved by the planned increase in the use of information and communication technologies and the national awareness campaigns proposed by the commission for the member states.
in writing. ‒ this regulation aims to amend and replace regulation no 861/2007 of july 2007 establishing a european small claims procedure. the intention was to simplify and speed up procedures relating to small crossborder disputes and to reduce their costs and time. the regulation was designed in particular to help consumers and smes to assert their rights, thereby ensuring access to justice. however, it has emerged that there is ample scope for extending and consolidating the use of this instrument. the commission proposes measures to improve the use of this instrument, including: the commission will also be able to take part in the work of the european parliament in the next european council. scope of the regulation: to extend the definition of cross-border litigation; procedure and electronic means: to standardize postal and electronic services for the exchange of documents; court costs: the court of first instance held that the commission had failed to fulfil its obligation to state reasons in the case before it. i abstain because it hinders smes and consumers.
in writing. ‒ the european small claims procedure has simplified crossborder litigation in the union. however, some obstacles still persist and have prevented the full exploitation of the potential of the european procedure, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises. i voted in favour of the resolution because it aims to remove these obstacles by further facilitating access to justice for both consumers and businesses, including through better use of technology, reducing costs and speeding up civil proceedings in disputes falling within its scope.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's proposal to extend and consolidate the use of the european small claims procedure provides for an increase in the limit value of small claims from eur 2 000 to eur 10 000. the need to modernise this procedure was highlighted, for example by allowing hearings to be held by videoconference and thus avoiding inconvenient and costly travel to appear at a hearing. i think it is important to extend the use of this instrument by increasing the proportion of disputes which will benefit from a considerable reduction in the cost and duration of litigation. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report, which increases the value of small crossborder disputes covered by the regulation (from eur 2 000 to eur 5 000). this is a measure that meets the needs of eu citizens, who very often give up their rights because of the different costs - economic and bureaucratic - of proceedings in these types of procedures.
in writing. ‒ a simplified procedure is introduced which provides major advantages for both citizens and smes in the context of small claims procedures. too often in the past, bureaucracy has discouraged businesses and citizens from taking such action. this vote will reduce costs and provide a more rapid and modern procedure which will fully meet the requirements of justice. for these reasons i voted in favour of this important report, hoping that more publicity would be given to this simplified procedure to make it more effective.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal. regulation (ec) no 861/2007 of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european small claims procedure aims to simplify and speed up procedures relating to cross-border small claims and to reduce the costs thereof. this raises the ceiling for small claims which can be settled by the european procedure from the current eur 2 000 to eur 10 000. this would increase the number of disputes covered by the regulation from 20% to 50% and would result in a net saving in legal costs for small and mediumsized enterprises in the member states.
in writing. i congratulate mr geringer on the adoption of this important legislative package, which is a further step forward in legal certainty at european level for consumers, businesses and citizens. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i am referring in particular to the increase in the dispute threshold to eur 5 000, with a five-year review clause, for a further possible increase, to the wish to encourage the use of distance communication and videoconferencing for hearings of the parties, to facilitate the settlement time, to the definition of court fees in proportion to the claim, so as not to unnecessarily increase costs for consumers.
in writing. ‒ the commission has presented to the european parliament and the council a proposal to amend regulation (eu) no 966/2012 laying down the rules applicable to the budget of the european union. the priority objective of the financial regulation is the protection of the financial interests of the european union. europe intends to combat fraud affecting its expenditure and revenue by means of sanctions in all the countries of the european union. protecting financial interests is a top priority for the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 861/2007 of july 2007 establishes a simplified european procedure for small claims, while regulation (ec) no 1896/2006 of december 2006 establishes a european order for payment procedure. i voted in favour of the european parliament and council's proposal because i believe that such simplified systems would benefit above all small and mediumsized enterprises, which are currently discouraged from taking legal action because of the high cost of ordinary or simplified national procedures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative resolution because it makes it possible to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the procedures for settling crossborder disputes, both in the field of civil and commercial law. i am in favour of all legislation like this, which simplifies the lives of citizens and businesses and reduces costs.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this proposal for a regulation which, by establishing a european small claims procedure, aims to simplify and speed up the procedures for crossborder disputes. the aim is always to help consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises to assert their rights, thereby ensuring access to justice. however, further efforts are needed to improve legal certainty, to break down language barriers and to promote the transparency of proceedings. we are convinced of the need to raise the ceiling for disputes which can be settled by the european procedure from the current eur 2 000 to eur 10 000 and of the desirability of extending the definition of crossborder disputes, thereby extending the scope of the regulation. we agree with the rapporteur on the proposal to encourage the use of information technology in order to reduce its costs. this procedure will only work if consumers, businesses, courts and associations offering advice are duly informed of its existence. it is therefore essential that the commission continue to provide information on this, in particular through the e-justice portal. it is equally important that member states accompany the commission's efforts with national awareness campaigns.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 861/2007 of the european parliament and of the council of 11 july 2007 establishing a european small claims procedure aims to simplify and speed up procedures for small crossborder disputes and to reduce the costs involved. the regulation was designed in particular to help consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) to enforce their rights, thereby ensuring access to justice. the commission proposes first of all to raise the ceiling for small claims (from the current eur 2 000 to eur 10 000) which can be settled by the european procedure; the commission also proposes to extend the definition of crossborder litigation, thereby extending the scope of the regulation. in the light of the above, i have decided to vote in favour of the report because i believe that the amendments proposed by the commission would further strengthen the procedure.
in writing. ‒ considering that reducing bureaucratic burdens and reducing the time taken in judicial proceedings are two of the major areas of interest for the european union, while stressing the importance of adequate information for the parties involved in order to achieve the objective proposed by the amendment of this regulation to simplify and accelerate the procedures relating to cross-border litigation, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 861/2007 of the european parliament and of the council of 11 july 2007 establishing a european small claims procedure aims to simplify and speed up procedures relating to crossborder small claims and to reduce the costs involved. the commission proposes to raise the ceiling for small claims which can be settled by the european procedure from the current eur 2 000 to eur 10 000. the commission also proposes to extend the definition to disputes in which the parties are domiciled in the same member state but have another crossborder element, such as the place of performance of the contract, the place where the harmful event occurred or the enforcement of the judgment in another member state. i believe that the amendments proposed by the commission are a further step forward in improving the operation of the procedure for small claims. this report is very much in favour of the amendments proposed by the commission and for that reason i have decided to vote in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european small claims procedure and the european order for payment procedure because i believe that protecting the interests of european citizens is a top priority. the commission's proposal is to raise the ceiling for small claims and to extend the definition to claims where the parties are domiciled in the same member state but have another crossborder element.
in writing. ‒ a commission survey showed that 45% of companies involved in crossborder disputes do not take legal action because the legal costs would be disproportionate to the value of the claim, while 27% are discouraged by the length of the procedure. i have therefore decided to give my consent to the proposal for a european small claims procedure because i am in favour of reducing the cost and time of these procedures. i also believe that the increase in the ceiling for recourse to the european dispute settlement procedure and the extension of the simplified procedure to crossborder disputes with a value between eur 2 000 and eur 10 000 represent an important improvement for smes and consumers. in fact, only 20% of the disputes involving companies have a value of less than eur 2 000, while about 30% have a value between eur 2 000 and eur 10 000. the current ceiling covers only 20% of disputes involving companies, but the new threshold of eur 10 000 would bring that figure down to around 50%.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the revision of the european small claims procedure and the european order for payment procedure, which will allow european citizens and small businesses to use a simplified eu procedure to recover small claims from other eu countries. this procedure, which has been in force since 2009, already provides a legal remedy allowing those who have purchased goods or services worth up to eur 2 000 in another member state to recover the amounts due through a procedure on standard forms that limits the bureaucratic practices otherwise necessary to resolve a cross-border dispute. the revision we voted on today further extends and simplifies the procedure for resolving such disputes, on the one hand by raising the maximum for complaints covered by the procedure to eur 5 000, on the other hand by lowering the costs for citizens, by requiring states to provide free assistance in preparing the necessary documents and by encouraging the use of distance communication technology in court, if necessary. the ultimate objective is to increase citizens' confidence in cross-border shopping and business by facilitating the resolution of disputes that may arise.
in writing. ‒ air pollution is a serious problem affecting every eu country. it is estimated that 400 000 premature deaths occur in europe each year due to poor air quality. the commission's intention to limit emissions of pollutants into the air was probably seen as a declaration of war by the industry lobbies, as the changes made have emptied the original text of meaning. legislation of this kind cannot be a downward compromise. the final text is therefore unacceptable for several reasons, in particular: it does put a cap on emissions, but because it is very high, it almost authorizes plants to pollute. extend the implementation time and remove very dangerous substances such as mercury, dioxins and furans from the list; the directive also excludes certain plants from its scope. for these reasons, although the proposal is intended to fill a legislative gap concerning medium combustion plants, i voted against it: the health of the citizens is too important.
in writing. ‒ the report sets out the rules for controlling emissions into the air of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust from medium combustion plants, as well as monitoring carbon monoxide emissions. the text is acceptable and does not contain any criticisms, so i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ up to now, about 150 000 medium combustion plants (between 1 and 50 megawatts) in europe, including those dedicated to electricity generation, domestic heating and cooling and steam generation for industrial processes, have lacked a clear legal framework. in the text agreed with the council, the eu committed itself to putting in place regulations capable of significantly reducing harmful emissions into the atmosphere, in particular of sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox) and other dust. the new directive introduces a monitoring system for carbon monoxide (co) that can identify limit values and a recording system to ensure compliance with the obligations. air pollution is a key issue for protecting the health of european citizens and today's vote shows a concrete eu commitment to tackling it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important that the eu regulates nox, so2 and dust emissions. it is essential, in the context of the fight against climate change we have undertaken, that the european legislator should take care to limit the emissions of these pollutants, while avoiding double regulation and excessive administrative burdens, in order to combine the protection of the environment with the needs of businesses and citizens.
in writing. ‒ the quality of our health and the mitigation of climate change depend on tackling air pollution. there are about 150 000 medium-sized combustion plants (with a thermal capacity of between 1 and 50 mw) in the eu, which are used for heating, electricity generation or industrial purposes: they are a significant source of emissions of sulphur dioxide, dust and nitrogen oxides. eu regulations on emissions from combustion plants cover plants above 50 mw and small domestic plants (less than 1 mw), but there is no legislation to encourage manufacturers to design medium-sized plants in an environmentally friendly way. it is necessary to close the regulatory gap and avoid breaches of the obligations of member states to reduce emissions of air pollutants by rationalizing and harmonising the sectoral discipline by establishing a system of registration of installations and setting emission limit values that are the same throughout europe in order to protect the health of citizens and avoid unjustified burdens on manufacturing companies in the plant and heating sector.
in writing. - i vote for it. useful and sensible legislation.
in writing. ‒ after careful discussion and debate in the chamber, i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the limitation of emissions into the atmosphere of certain pollutants from medium combustion plants, as i believe that this proposal for a directive aims first of all to fill an important gap in current eu legislation, since, as is well known, there are no specific eu-wide regulations regarding emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants. i regret the time lost so far, if i think of the number of installations present (150 000) and if we consider that they are used for fundamental applications (electricity and for domestic/residential use). i agree with the considerations that 'the air quality in many areas of the union continues to fall short of the limits set by the union itself and the targets set by the world health organisation' and 'the commission should assess, within a reasonable time, the need to amend the emission limit values in annex ii on the basis of the most advanced technologies'. i agree with the need to set emission limit values, but i still believe that they must be based on criteria of proportionality and practicability.
in writing. ‒ according to the european commission's impact assessment, air pollution is estimated to cause over 400 000 premature deaths every year and health costs of up to €940 billion. it also contributes to severe environmental degradation, with 62% of the eu's territory exposed to acidification. in addition, reducing emissions from medium combustion plants contributes to the reduction of greenhouse gases, improving energy efficiency and promoting renewable energy. the world health organization and the oecd have jointly estimated that the annual economic cost of the health impacts of air pollution amounts to over €1.4 trillion across europe. our m5s europe delegation cannot support the european commission's proposal because of the lack of ambition shown in reducing the emission limit values and because of the fact that we have not included highly toxic pollutants such as mercury and dioxins and furans in the emissions calculation proposed by us. in view of the above, we voted against.
in writing. ‒ air quality is certainly a central issue in eu climate policy. every year, more than 400 000 deaths are caused by environmental pollution. despite the extensive european legislation on air pollutant emissions, there is still a legislative gap on medium combustion plants, i.e. those with a rated thermal output between 1 and 50 megawatts, which are the most numerous because they are used for a wide range of purposes (electricity generation, heating and cooling of our homes to name just a few examples) and unfortunately also represent the main source of emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and fine dust which are seriously harmful to human health. after a long period of work by the environment committee, an ambitious agreement was finally reached with the council, including the introduction of stringent emission limit values to be complied with by operators and the obligation for member states to keep a register of information on installations and changes made available to the public. i am satisfied with the content of the directive because, together with the complex body of legislation, it contributes to making the eu's climate policy even more credible. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure under consideration concerning the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere. there are around 150 000 medium combustion plants (thermal capacity between 1 and 50 mw) in the eu, used for a wide range of applications (including electricity generation or domestic heating/cooling), producing emissions of pollutants such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust. medium-sized plants are the only ones which have not yet been regulated at european level. the commission proposal aims to significantly reduce pollution from nox, so2 and dust by setting limit values and establishing a registration system, to make a significant contribution to the member states' emission reduction obligations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because air pollutant emissions from combustion plants are generally not regulated at european level. the commission proposal therefore contains forward-looking provisions for these plants. in addition, the report, with its various amendments, is designed to reduce pollution in an indicative way by setting limit values for new and existing installations, together with a simple registration system, in order to help deliver a significant part of the emission reduction obligations and to avoid possible trade-offs between air quality and biomass increase. finally, the emission limit values have been amended in accordance with the laws in force and the principle of cost efficiency will be introduced, with a new distinction between categories of plants on the basis of their nominal heat output. one of the european union's main objectives is to safeguard the lives and health of its citizens, starting with the protection of air quality.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal for a directive put forward by the european commission and the council on the limitation of atmospheric pollutants by medium combustion plants. although european legislation regulates emissions from small and large plants, there is no regulation for medium-sized plants. the aim of the proposal for a directive is to reduce pollution and dust by setting maximum values for existing and new medium-sized plants. in addition, it provides for the establishment of a system of registration of installations to be applied within the member states which does not impose an excessive administrative burden on undertakings, for example by avoiding double regulation of emissions and instead creating a simple and coherent regulatory environment. i voted in favour of the report because this directive would be an important instrument for improving environmental conditions, quality of life, health costs and european development in the context of the climate and energy challenges. however, there must be a balance between the costs for companies to monitor emissions and the environmental and health benefits. only by adopting proportionate and workable parameters can the cross-border problem of air pollution be tackled effectively.
in writing. ‒ air pollution has caused and continues to cause irreversible damage to the environment and human health across europe. the who estimated the cost of this to be 1.4 trillion, equivalent to one tenth of the eu's gdp in the year 2013. in particular, medium combustion plants (mfus) contribute significantly to poor air quality as sources of emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter. since these plants have not been regulated at eu level, the commission has proposed to take measures against the emission of air pollutants from combustion plants with a rated thermal input between 1 and 50 mw. the definition of the emission limit value (elv) means not only trying to solve the problem at its root, but also contributing to the creation of new jobs by making the companies concerned competitive. i am voting against this because the project is not ambitious enough in view of the technological innovations already in place which could tackle the problem at its root more effectively. i also do not think it is right to exclude certain plants from the scope of the directive, such as hydrogen sulphide conversion plants.
in writing. ‒ although emissions of pollutants from combustion in medium-sized plants are increasingly contributing to pollution, these emissions were not comprehensively regulated by european legislation. i therefore voted in favour of the report because it fills a serious legislative gap. the directive will also help to improve air quality, promote energy efficiency and modernise industrial plants, thereby reducing the negative impact on human health and improving the quality of the environment.
in writing. ‒ setting emission limit values (elvs) would be an effective way to solve europe's air pollution problems by addressing the problem at source, making the environment cleaner, citizens less exposed and avoiding huge socioeconomic costs for europe. the lei could also create competitiveness for the companies concerned and increase eco-innovation, thereby contributing to job creation in europe. as the five star movement we do not support the proposal because of the lack of ambition shown in reducing the limit values for vle emissions and because of the fact that we have not included highly toxic pollutants such as mercury, dioxins and furans in the calculation of the emissions we have proposed. we are concerned about the amendments which have weakened the commission's proposal, the longer time taken to comply with the elvs and the exclusion of certain plants from the scope of the directive.
in writing. ‒ according to european commission estimates, air pollution causes over 400 000 premature deaths every year and costs healthcare up to eur 940 billion. it also contributes to severe environmental degradation and causes economic damage worth eur 3 billion in lost crops and eur 1 billion in damaged buildings. the commission proposal, which aims to close a major gap in current union legislation by reducing emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants, contributes to the achievement of the union's climate and greenhouse gas reduction objectives. i voted in favour of this report because air pollution is a serious threat to the environment and i believe it is essential to promote a credible climate policy at eu level based on compliance with air quality standards and emission limit values.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report, which harmonises the rules on emissions.
in writing. ‒ today's vote fills a longstanding loophole in the legislation and regulates medium combustion plants by setting limit values for old and new plants. this is a good compromise which will make it possible to protect the health of european citizens better without at the same time excessively affecting the competitiveness of the industrial sector. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the vote we have just taken on the report by the envi committee is very important: the amendments proposed to the commission proposal improve the chances of realistically implementing the directive on emissions from medium combustion plants, making it an important instrument for improving air quality in the european union without imposing unjustified burdens on society and the economy. it was an area where the regulatory vacuum was likely to cause uncertainty and damage to the environment, and i welcome this important acquisition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere from medium combustion plants, since they are very widespread and have a wide variety of uses, being found in electric generators, domestic heating systems and industrial heat or steam systems: however, they are a source of emissions of pollutants such as sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides. i therefore consider parliament's commitment to protecting air quality and the environment and to combating climate change to be of paramount importance and therefore support a legislative proposal which for the first time regulates emissions from these plants. i also welcome the negotiating approach towards the council, which is to maintain the commission's regulatory proposals without any backtracking or weakening of the legislation: the air and environmental quality is a public good of fundamental importance to our citizens and as such must receive the utmost attention from the institutions. the regulatory approach, combining environmental protection with the proportionality of the charges imposed, distinguishing between old and new installations and focusing on smes, allows for an important decision which will benefit our society and also our companies.
in writing. this proposal for medium combustion plants with a rated thermal input between 1 and 50 mw is designed to make a significant contribution to reducing pollution by setting limit values for existing and new plants and also by establishing a registration system which can enable member states to meet their emission reduction obligations. among the most important points, i would recall the obligation for member states to assess the need to apply stricter emission limit values in areas not complying with union air quality standards and the inclusion of a review clause to verify progress in 2020 in terms of energy efficiency of combustion plants. these efforts are part of the wider preparation for cop21 in paris.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a directive to limit atmospheric emissions from medium combustion plants. the report introduces for the first time emission limits for certain pollutants from combustion plants, which will apply to combustion plants with an average output of between 1 and 50 mw, both new and existing. unlike small and large plants which are already covered by the respective eu directives, emissions from medium combustion plants are not yet regulated at eu level. the new rules are designed to fill the gaps in the regulatory framework. improving air quality and tackling air pollution in the eu is a priority.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere from medium combustion plants, given the critical levels of air pollution which, on the one hand, exceed the limits set by the european union and the world health organisation and, on the other, constitute a danger to the health and well-being of european citizens and future generations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it effectively harmonises the emission regulations.
in writing. ‒ there are around 150 000 medium combustion plants in the eu, i.e. combustion plants with a rated thermal input between 1 and 50 mw, used for a wide range of applications (electricity generation, domestic/residential heating and cooling, heat/steam production for industrial processes, etc.), which are a major source of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust emissions. by approving this proposal, we intend to make a significant contribution to the reduction of nox, so2 and dust pollution by setting limit values for existing and new installations and also by establishing a simple registration system, to make a significant contribution to the fulfilment of the member states' emission reduction obligations, while also avoiding possible trade-offs between air quality and the increased use of biomass, which in turn could lead to increased air pollution. the aim is to avoid duplicative regulation and excessive administrative burdens, while maintaining the objectives of the original legislative proposal. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'air quality' in the definition of the environmental criteria.
in writing. ‒ i appreciate the work done by the rapporteur on the amendments to the directive, whose overall aim reflects the will to commit to reducing emissions. that is why i have decided to give my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to reduce emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants. such systems are widely used in europe and are used in a number of fields: electricity generation, domestic heating, heat generation for industrial processes, etc. air pollution is estimated to cause over 400 000 premature deaths each year and to have quantifiable health costs of up to eur 940 billion, as well as a significant negative impact on the environment. in the eu, small combustion plants are regulated by directive 2009/125/ec and large combustion plants by directive 2010/75/ec, while medium combustion plants are not regulated at eu level. i therefore believe that the establishment of a system of regulation and registration of these plants at european level is an important tool for improving the quality of air emissions in the european union, for achieving the union's climate and energy objectives and for reducing greenhouse gases. i therefore decided to support this report by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the limitation of emissions into the atmosphere of certain pollutants from medium combustion plants (thermal power from 1 to 50 mw). in the european union there are about 150 000 such plants, which are used in a number of fields: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the energy sector, such as the creation of a new energy market, the production of electricity, domestic heating and the generation of heat for industrial processes. it was considered essential to control and limit their emissions in the light of the european policy of reducing pollution, taking care not to increase administrative complexity and not to inhibit future investment.
in writing. ‒ there are around 150 000 medium combustion plants in the european union, used for a wide range of applications (electricity generation, domestic/residential heating and cooling, heat/steam production for industrial processes, etc.). they are an important source of emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter. unlike small and large combustion plants, which are covered by directives 2009/125/ec and 2010/75/eu, medium combustion plants have not been regulated at european level until now. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the new directive limiting emissions into the atmosphere of certain pollutants from medium combustion plants. these are some 143 000 installations used mainly for electricity generation, domestic heating and the supply of heat or steam for industrial processes. this fills the gap in european legislation on air quality in the combustion sector, which currently provides for two directives for small and large plants. noting that in many regions air pollution levels still remain above the limits set by the union and air quality standards do not even meet the objectives identified by the world health organisation, the directive introduces limits on emissions of pollutants created by the combustion of fuel in medium combustion plants not yet regulated at union level as they are increasingly contributing to air pollution, in particular due to a wider use of biomass, induced by climate and energy policy. this measure is therefore useful in reducing air pollution and consequently the serious risks to health and the environment arising from poor air quality.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which further weakens the european commission's already weak proposal to impose limit values on emissions from medium combustion plants. regulating and containing emissions from medium installations is of fundamental importance to protect the environment and human health and to reduce the social and economic costs of air pollution: we have therefore asked for two things in the committees. first, to tighten up the emission limits, to match them with what is possible to achieve through innovations in existing technologies. secondly, to include dioxins, furans and mercury among the pollutants subject to an emission ceiling. our efforts, unfortunately, have been in vain. not only that: the report put to the vote by the european parliament provides for even longer time limits for the entry into force of emission limits than those outlined by the european commission and increases the number of installations exempted from the application of the directive. we have tabled an amendment in the plenary to include at least offshore platforms among the installations subject to the directive: it was not approved. in light of all this, i had no choice but to say no to this relationship. and i said it with regret: we wasted an opportunity.
in writing. ‒ the road report analyses the new legislation on caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption, which replaces the previous directive 83/417/eec; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the foodstuffs are not used in the same way as the foodstuffs.
in writing. ‒ in early 2014, the commission published the proposal for a directive to harmonise the different laws of the member states on caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption. the final text proposes to amend some parameters in order to bring them into line with international standards. the document provides for a maximum moisture content of casein in foodstuffs of 12% (compared to the previously provided 10% parameter) and a maximum fat content of casein in milk in foodstuffs of 2% (compared to 2,25%), as well as the obligation to label the percentages on the finished product. it is therefore a package which i support, which ensures that european consumers have better controls and standards of food safety.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i think it is very positive that the compositional requirements for food caseins are aligned with the codex alimentarius, which will guarantee food business operators equal treatment on the world market.
in writing. - i vote for it. the directive approximates national legislation on the regulation of certain milk proteins intended for human consumption.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption and repealing council directive 83/417/eec. i think the commission's efforts to improve food safety are positive. i am therefore in favour of legislative proposals such as the one that has been voted on, which aims to integrate eu legislation into the wider framework of international food law. this will also affect the information on the label which the final consumer can obtain. labelling requirements for caseins and caseinates will allow consumers to make informed and informed choices, particularly in the case of food allergies or intolerances. with today's vote parliament has therefore given an important boost to the market development of milk products, especially those intended for processing into cheese. the european union must support the quality of european products, which can ensure safety standards and guarantee new outlets, prospects and competitiveness for a sector which is of fundamental importance to european agriculture.
in writing. ‒ the report sets out parliament's position on the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption. the parliament's intervention brings improvements to the text of the proposal, which concern both health and food safety through labelling and precise information for the consumer. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ food products for human consumption are subject to strict regulation, especially with regard to labelling, which allows consumers to receive as much information as possible to make informed choices. it should be recalled that the harmonization of labelling between the countries of the european union has favoured the free movement of food products within the single market and has also facilitated greater marketing of the same products on international markets. although casein and caseinates are intended for sale between businesses and not to consumers, it was important to provide in the proposal for a directive for the obligation for operators in the sector to put the percentages used on the label of the finished product, especially because it is dealing with substances which are often the cause of allergies and intolerances. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal, also because it aligns the compositional requirements for caseins and caseinates with the relevant codex alimentarius standards and this will ensure equal treatment of operators in the sector on the world market. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the preparation of the directive, but that it should be a matter for the member states to decide. to protect and inform european consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure under consideration concerning casein and caseinates intended for human consumption. the commission proposal aims to update directive 83/417/eec in order to bring the compositional requirements for food casein into line with the international standard (codex alimentarius), align the powers conferred on the commission with the distinction between delegated and implementing acts introduced by the treaty of lisbon and adapt the existing provisions to developments in food law. as regards the adaptation to international standards, the commission proposes in particular that the maximum moisture content of casein in foodstuffs be set at 12% (compared with the previously proposed 10%) and the maximum fat content of milk in casein in foodstuffs at 2% (compared with 2.25%). the proposal should be seen in the context of the general food law which aims to ensure the free movement of safe and healthy food, thus contributing significantly to the health and well-being of citizens. the proposal also includes provisions on the labelling of casein and caseinates intended for human consumption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe it should be considered in the context of general food law, and above all because it aims to ensure the free movement of safe and healthy food, thus making a significant contribution to the health and well-being of citizens. i also think it is appropriate to ensure that consumers are adequately informed about the food they consume. although the products covered by the proposal (caseins and caseinates) are not intended for sale to the final consumer but only for sale between food preparation businesses, it is important that food business operators have the necessary data for the labelling of finished products, in particular as regards allergens. finally, i agree with the rapporteur, particularly on the positive assessment of the alignment of the compositional requirements for food caseins with the codex alimentarius, which will guarantee equal treatment for food business operators on the world market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative report. it is a very important objective to ensure the free movement of safe and healthy food, improving the health of european citizens. in addition to the alignment of compositional requirements for food caseins, i supported this text because it introduces labelling requirements for caseins and caseinates which will improve information and consequently the awareness of citizens in the choice of products to buy and consume.
in writing. ‒ following the european commission's proposal on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption in march 2014, the envi committee proposed improvements to the amendments, which i fully support. these include: the repeal of directive 83/417/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to certain milk proteins intended for human consumption; the commission has also proposed that the maximum moisture content of casein in foodstuffs be set at 12% and the maximum fat content of casein in milk in foodstuffs at 2%, changes which will lead to fairer competition and to alignment of european legislation with international legislation. a new food directive is also planned to bring the compositional requirements for casein to the fao codex alimentarius international standard. the amendments also provide for more accurate information to be given to operators and final consumers and for producers to be able to use a higher percentage of protein than that required by the directive, provided that the level is clearly indicated on the labels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to casein and caseinates intended for human consumption. the alignment of the compositional requirements for food caseins to the codex alimentarius will ensure equal treatment of food business operators on the world market. in addition, the labelling requirements for caseins and caseinates will allow consumers to make informed choices, in particular in the case of food allergies or intolerances.
in writing. i am in favour of the directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to casein and caseinates intended for human consumption, because it proposes to set the maximum moisture content of casein in foodstuffs at 12% (compared with the previously envisaged 10%) and the maximum fat content of milk in casein in foodstuffs at 2% (compared with 2.25%). the directive should be seen in the context of the general food law (regulation (ec) no 178/2002) which aims to ensure the free movement of safe and healthy food, thereby contributing to the health and well-being of citizens. with this in mind, it is also appropriate to ensure that consumers are adequately informed about the food they consume. although the products covered by the directive are not intended for sale to the final consumer but only for sale between food preparation businesses, it is important that food business operators have the data necessary for the labelling of finished products. consequently, the directive includes provisions on the labelling of caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption. if the mandatory information is not provided on the packaging, containers or labels, the products concerned may not be marketed as casein or caseinates for human consumption or used for the preparation of foodstuffs.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report which aims to include the principles underlying the recent directives on public procurement and concessions among those intended to regulate the functioning of the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ this vote, although for a number of technical reasons, has a significant impact on the health of consumers in the casein and caseinates sector. i particularly welcome the labelling provisions, which will finally allow for a more informed choice and above all greater protection for citizens suffering from allergies and intolerances. the report will also bring a number of benefits to the competitiveness of a sector which is particularly in difficulty, namely the dairy sector. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. in the food sector, consumer safety and maximum transparency of labelling are essential priorities for the marketing of products. i therefore welcome the report, which has already been approved by the envi committee, on the updating of the eu rules on casein in foodstuffs. the alignment of the compositional requirements of these products with the codex alimentarius and the communication of detailed information to manufacturers will ensure that the final consumer has clear and precise information on possible disorders and allergies, thus promoting the circulation of safer and more controlled food.
in writing. in march 2014, the european commission presented the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption and repealing directive 83/471/eec of the european parliament and of the council. this is a technical matter, but it has indirect consequences for citizens and consumers. that is why i worked on this proposal very carefully, together with the shadow rapporteurs, whom i thank for their excellent cooperation, which enabled us to reach a final agreement with the council in a short time. the final text provides for the maximum moisture content of casein to be fixed at 12% (compared with the previously proposed 10%) and the maximum fat content of casein milk to be fixed at 2% (compared with 2.25%). the vote today therefore shows that europe is very much concerned about food issues, with particular attention to food security, which is always at the heart of our political agenda.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the proposal for a parliament and council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to casein and caseinates intended for human consumption. the purpose of the report is to adapt directive 83/417/eec on the use of particular lactoproteins for human consumption to international standards. the products covered are intended for sale only between food preparation businesses as it is important that food business operators are aware of the basic data relating to the labelling of products, in particular for allergens.
in writing. ‒ in march 2014, the european commission published a proposal for a directive to stimulate the approximation of member states' legislation on caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption. my agreement to the proposal for a directive is based on the conviction that it is essential to ensure the circulation of safe and healthy foodstuffs in order to protect the welfare of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr la via because it positively aligns the regulatory requirements for certain food lactoproteins and caseins with the evolution of food legislation; the directive also approximates national laws, ensuring greater equality of treatment for operators in the global market.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the adoption of this proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption, considering it essential to align it with the requirements of the codex alimentarius. this will ensure that food business operators are treated equally on the world market. the proposal should be seen in the context of the general food law which aims to ensure the free movement of safe and healthy food, thus contributing significantly to the health and well-being of citizens. in this context, it is also appropriate to ensure that consumers are adequately informed about the foodstuffs they consume. although the products covered by the proposal are not intended for sale to the consumer but only for sale between food preparation businesses, it is important that operators have the necessary data for the labelling of finished products, in particular as regards allergens. we therefore support the proposed labelling requirements, which will enable consumers to make informed choices and prevent possible food allergies or intolerances. as regards procedural aspects, the power to adopt delegated acts in order to amend the annexes should not be conferred on the commission for an indefinite period, but for a maximum of five years.
in writing. ‒ in view of the need to approximate the laws of the member states and given the great importance of ensuring that producers, and ultimately consumers, are fully informed about the products they buy and consume, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the present proposal aims to bring the compositional requirements for caseins and caseinates in foodstuffs into line with the codex alimentarius standard, thus aligning them with international standards and updating them in the light of the new provisions introduced by the treaty of lisbon. in particular, the maximum moisture content of casein in foodstuffs is being reduced from 10% to 12% and the maximum fat content of milk in casein in foodstuffs is being reduced from 2.25 to 2%. i welcome the rapporteur's proposal, which aims to ensure the circulation of safe and healthy food on the eu market, thereby making a significant contribution to safeguarding the health and well-being of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on caseins and caseinates for human consumption because i support the role of the european union in ensuring food safety and i believe that all types of 'milk proteins' should be clearly indicated on food labels to avoid triggering allergies and intolerances. the report proposes alignment with international standards (codex alimentarius) and updating with the new provisions introduced by the lisbon treaty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive on caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption, which brings the european union's current compositional requirements for these lactoproteins into line with the international standards of the world health organisation set out in the codex alimentarius. caseins are lactoproteins, while caseinates are derived from the former and can also be used in winemaking to reduce the level of bitterness and to clarify white and rosé wines. as they are two milk products, they may also cause intolerances or allergies and for this very reason their presence must be indicated on food labels.
in writing. ‒ i am not opposed to this redefinition of the characteristics of casein and caseinates, which is the result of the work of the envi committee, i voted in favour, but i do not want my yes to be used by the italian government in the context of the dispute between italy and the eu over italian rules which rightly prohibit the use of powdered milk, concentrated milk and reconstituted milk in the manufacture of cheeses. in defence of these rules, the italian minister for agriculture recently said that italy would ask the european commission to look into the labelling of milk products in order to provide consumers with more information. the redefinition of the characteristics of casein which we have approved here in the european parliament also provides for more transparent and comprehensive labelling of casein and caseinates, with a view to the application of a more detailed label to the finished products obtained from these semi-finished products. i would like to stress, however, that the best labelling of casein and caseinates does not derive from italian requirements and has nothing to do with italian requirements. it is important to prevent the italian government from cleverly putting its own label on the work that we have all done here in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the gräßle report, which i consider balanced and acceptable. i think it is right that the principles underlying the recent public procurement and concession directives which will have to be applied by the member states should also be applied to the procurement of the council, the european commission and parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is important that community legislation on the general budget of the union is coherent and linear. it is therefore important that the two directives on public procurement and the award of concession contracts are taken into account in the legislation in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, the principles included should also apply to public procurement by the council, the commission and parliament.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the chamber, i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union. i particularly agree with the importance of clarifying how contracting authorities can contribute to the protection of the environment and the promotion of sustainable development, while ensuring that they are able to obtain the best value for money for their contracts, in particular by requiring specific labels and/or using appropriate award methods. the use of principles of efficiency, transparency and adequacy, and clear management of any conflicts of interest in union public procurement is also essential to contribute to a better use of public funds. i respect in any case the view expressed by the committee on foreign affairs that all efforts to improve efficiency on the basis of the rules in force should be supported, but only specific rules and more flexible procedures, moving away from the current case-by-case approach, can ensure rapid deployment in line with logistical and security requirements.
in writing. ‒ with the adoption of the new procurement directive (directive 2014/24/eu of the european parliament and of the council of 26 february 2014 on public procurement and repealing directive 2004/18/ec), the corresponding articles of the so-called financial regulation had to be revised to bring them into line with eu legislation. the revision actually improves the system (for example with the reports on the protection of the eu's financial interests and the rationalization of the timing of the court of auditors' special reports) and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union. the aim of the proposal submitted by the european commission to parliament and the council is to bring the financial regulation into line with the provisions of the new directives on public procurement and the award of concession contracts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i agree with the line of my party that the eu should apply common foreign and security policy rules, since significant delays in the supply of essential equipment and services have a number of negative effects on the functioning of the various eu missions. the credibility of the union on the international scene is at stake in these areas, and i therefore believe that it is useful, following the report by mr grässle, to introduce specific rules for intervention in crisis and post-crisis contexts. it is also important to make everything as transparent as possible by publishing everything done on websites for easy consultation.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the proposal to align the financial regulation with the provisions of the new directives on public procurement and concession contracts, as the obligation to apply general eu procurement rules to crisis management measures under the common foreign and security policy and, in particular, to civilian missions under the common security and defence policy (csdp) causes significant delays in the supply of essential equipment and services and has a significant negative impact on the functioning of the missions. the eu's credibility on the international stage is at stake at a time when the union is making important commitments to peace and security. the safety of its personnel, who lack essential equipment such as armoured vehicles, is also often at stake. i therefore think it is appropriate to introduce specific rules for csdp missions which are a step away from the current approach and which are more flexible. such rules would ensure adequate protection of the financial interests of the union in the context of the pursuit of the eu's key security objectives, better meeting the imperative of sound, effective and efficient financial management as a result.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, directive 2014/24/eu of the european parliament and of the council on public procurement was adopted. work was needed to revise the corresponding articles of the financial regulation to align them with eu legislation. in particular, it was requested to revise articles 101 to 120 on the possibility of negotiating interinstitutional contracts, criteria for compliance with environmental, social and legislative standards, exclusion criteria for fraud, corruption, participation in criminal activities, the creation of a verification panel, the creation of a database for an exclusion and detection system linked to olaf. in the light of the improvements in procedures currently under way, i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the financial rules relating to the general budget of the union ensure the proper functioning of the union and the execution of activities in the eu countries. therefore, it is important to have clear financial rules both for economic operators and for the protection of the financial interests of the union. i voted in favour of the resolution because it makes important changes to the rules governing the establishment and implementation of the general budget of the european union, for example by introducing clearer technical definitions and more precise measures on procurement procedures and financial penalties, and by ensuring that economic operators comply with the applicable obligations in environmental, social and labour law in accordance with european union law when executing contracts.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report which aims to include the principles underlying the recent directives on public procurement and concessions among those intended to regulate the functioning of the european institutions.
in writing. following the adoption of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 of the european parliament and of the council, it is necessary to amend regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012. this amendment will make available again the uncommitted appropriations relating to the implementation of the performance reserve and the financial instruments for unlimited guarantees and securitisation in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). i therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the commission has presented to the european parliament and the council a proposal to amend regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 laying down the rules applicable to the budget of the european union. the priority objective of the financial regulation is the protection of the financial interests of the european union. europe intends to combat fraud affecting its expenditure and revenue by means of sanctions in all the countries of the european union. protecting the financial interests of the european institutions is a top priority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative resolution because it improves the procedure system and reduces delays in public procurement. i also agree that electronic procurement improves access to public procurement for economic operators.
in writing. ‒ we voted today in favour of the adoption of this commission proposal to align the eu's financial regulation with the provisions of the new directives on public procurement and the award of concession contracts. in particular, with regard to crisis management measures under the common foreign and security policy and related civilian missions, the obligation to apply general union rules has often caused significant delays in the provision of essential equipment and services and had a significant negative impact on the functioning of the missions. the eu's credibility on the international stage is at stake at a time when the union is making important commitments to peace and security. we therefore believe that specific rules and more flexible procedures should be introduced, which move away from the current case-by-case approach and thus ensure rapid deployment in line with logistical and security requirements. such rules would also ensure adequate protection of the financial interests of the union in the context of the pursuit of the key eu security objectives, better meeting the imperative of sound, effective and efficient financial management as a result.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's report on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union, because i believe that the eu euratom regulation needs to be amended to ensure greater linearity in the procurement procedures of the european institutions. the amendment of several articles of the regulation adds precise selection criteria and access to european contracts to the procedure, automatically excluding from the tender administrations which have committed serious professional misconduct, fraud, corruption, participation in a criminal organisation, money laundering, failure to comply with obligations relating to the payment of contributions, taxes and fees, the financing of terrorism and child labour. in order to ensure a deterrent effect and to ensure that the attempt to obtain union funds improperly is not repeated, a financial penalty shall be provided for, as an alternative to or in addition to the exclusion from the tender, and, in the most serious cases, the publication of the information relating to the exclusion. particular attention is also paid to environmental protection and sustainable development by setting minimum standards to be met in accordance with international environmental law and national environmental protection standards. european funds will thus be more closely monitored in accordance with the principle of transparency and publicity.
in writing. ‒ i support all the amendments, especially those concerning transparency in the use of eu funds. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has presented to the european parliament and the council a proposal to align the financial regulation with the provisions of the new directives on public procurement and the award of concession contracts. the proposal includes an amendment to article 190 on 'external action contracts'. civilian missions under the common security and defence policy (csdp) are normally carried out in a crisis context and within a limited timeframe. their operational implementation is often delayed precisely because general eu procurement rules are not adapted to these situations. these delays contribute significantly to preventing the union from fully and effectively realising the potential of its external action. i therefore hope that specific rules can be adopted to ensure better protection of the union's financial interests in pursuit of the eu's key objectives in the field of security and foreign policy. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union, which aims to revise the financial regulation following the adoption of the new directives on public procurement and the award of concession contracts.
in writing. ‒ the measures adopted today are aimed at improving fairness and transparency in the public procurement process and in the award of concession contracts by the eu institutions. i have shared the european parliament's view, because i believe that these new financial rules will effectively prevent tax fraud and misappropriation of public funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the reform of the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union because the new text, revised in accordance with the procurement directive adopted in 2014, introduces significant improvements for the protection of the eu's financial interests, such as the possibility to negotiate contracts at interinstitutional level and the introduction of new criteria for compliance with environmental and social legislation. the reform text includes safeguard clauses to prevent organised crime from infiltrating the procurement procedures, by providing for exclusion criteria for fraud, corruption and participation in criminal activities, and by creating a database to detect illegal practices, developed in collaboration with olaf. this was a decisive point for my voting position. in addition, the measures adopted will improve reporting on the protection of the eu's financial interests and the performance of european funds, making data more accessible and transparent. finally, the reform optimises the time-limits for the transmission of the reports produced by the european court of auditors and streamlines the transmission of internal audit reports for discharge.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, the new procurement directive was adopted and it was therefore necessary to revise the corresponding articles of the financial regulation to bring them into line with eu legislation. articles 101 to 120 were revised with the key points relating to the possibility of negotiating contracts at interinstitutional level, with criteria for compliance with environmental, social and legislative standards and exclusion for fraud, corruption and participation in criminal activities. during this review, parliament also fought to open negotiations on certain articles of the financial regulation that needed to be revised after the 2012 approval. improving the reporting on the protection of the eu's financial interests and the performance of the european funds in the annual activity reports (articles 58, 60, 66); the reference to the transmission of documents useful for discharge (internal audit report) (article 99) and the rationalization of the timing of the court of auditors' special reports (article 163); optimisation of information procedures on landing and follow-up reports (article 166); the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the following: the procedures currently in place have therefore been optimized and i have therefore voted in favour.
i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote. the lesson we still carry with us today is that the quest for freedom is an unstoppable drive. freedom is a human condition, before it is political. no walls will stop it. the second lesson is the fragility of political projects. thirty years ago, no one would have thought that the communist bloc would disappear. there are two ways in which great political projects die: they either disappear when they no longer believe in themselves, when they lose the meaning of their history. this is the risk that europe is facing today and we must be frank about it, we saw it with the greek crisis, you spoke about it. the real tragedy was not the failure to pay a payment, but the fact that for a moment the sense of being together was lost. that's a risk we don't have to take anymore. because if europe is reduced to an aggregation of states held together by the logic of mere convenience and power, then it loses its raison d'être and opens up a pandora's box of selfishness, secession and forms of separatism. the union is first and foremost a political project and history tells us that in the past the franco-german drive has served europe because it had a vision of europe, the idea that through reconciliation between peoples divided by centuries of war the foundations for political integration would be laid. today we need a new start, a new project, a new vision that gives meaning to the union and sees all the member states as protagonists. this parliament and this european commission, led by president schulz and president juncker, have shown that they are up to the challenge and if we are gathered here today it is also because the elections of 2014 and the direct appointment of the president of the european commission have given this parliament new energy and strong new leadership. europe is not built from above and - let me say this politely but clearly - the intergovernmental model is obsolete. the europe of the peoples will not be achieved by rhetoric but by concrete actions which will help to achieve solidarity in practice. it started with immigration and we must proceed with consistency and firmness. i very much appreciate what chancellor merkel said to us today, which we have been saying for a long time, welcome and security, responsibility, i very much appreciate that you said very firmly that dublin is over. yes, dublin is over! the union must be made more democratic, and this is achieved through governance reform and economic and monetary union, which strengthens the role of the european parliament. this institution is already the parliament of the whole union and of the eurozone, and the union must also be given the means to assert itself through a common fiscal capacity which can lead to a european unemployment insurance mechanism. we must fight for greater tax justice, because it is unacceptable that while citizens are being asked to make sacrifices, tax evasion and fraud are draining public finances of a trillion euros every year. taxes are paid where the profits are made! we must ensure greater social justice. this continent, europe, is being torn apart by a silent secession, the poor getting poorer and the rich getting richer, social dumping must be stopped! and finally, compared to 25 years ago, we are facing the challenge of climate change, françois hollande spoke about it with passion, with firmness, thank you for this strong and binding appeal to all for a great success in paris! and then foreign policy, let's be honest about that. in the middle east, the diversity of approaches among member states in defining who our main adversary is, isis or assad, weakens our diplomatic action. we need a common foreign policy of the european union. i know that some european citizens, including those in this chamber, believe that the union's decline is inevitable. we must oppose this fatalism. the words of a great european, françois mitterrand, which he spoke in this chamber, and which you have all remembered, are still valid today: "our exciting role is to prevent the inevitable, to achieve the improbable and to realize hope"! (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. what right, what institutional status, do merkel and hollande have to come before this parliament to talk to us about europe and how to deal with the challenges of our time? we do not think so, and that is why we have left the chamber, because we do not intend to legitimize in any way the domination that france and germany have been exercising over the rest of europe for years, preventing it from emerging from the crisis and destroying the last remnants of the welfare state with economic suicide recipes. we do not want to leave the future of europe in the hands of those who have been negotiating decisions for years, outside the institutions, in secret rooms, which will determine the lives of millions of citizens, those who impose on countries in difficulty the strictest possible rules, which are socially unsustainable, and who are the first to break them, those who have placed european policy at the mercy of the interests of banks and markets, those who accept the misery generated in other states by their own vicious policies as an inevitable fact, and who actually want to profit from that misery. i am not prepared to accept lessons of unity and solidarity from those who systematically trample on every principle of fair cooperation between member states, putting national commercial and financial interests above everything, including human rights and democracy.
the european parliament welcomes the commission's action plan and the first concrete legislative proposals on which we are committed to working swiftly and efficiently. diversify sources of financing, recognising that capital markets and banks must be complementary, support access to credit and capital for small and medium-sized enterprises, encourage long-term and infrastructure investment, ensure a genuine integration of financial markets, a more efficient allocation of resources, provide more choice for savers, increase risk diversification and strengthen shock absorption capacity: these are the reasons why the capital markets union project is strategic and a central component of the european strategy for growth and jobs. for these reasons parliament supports the commission's action, as already indicated in the resolution we have adopted. we believe that an efficient capital markets union is not and should not be at odds with a robust regulatory framework that prevents another financial crisis from happening again, and we believe that a robust system of rules and strong and increasingly integrated supervision are a prerequisite for the success of the capital markets union. at the same time, an analysis of the combined impact of the current regulatory framework and a calibration of capital requirements that incentivise long-term investment and the economy and in the real economy is a useful exercise that the econ committee has called for and to which we intend to contribute. i am glad that the action plan wisely proposes a pragmatic and gradual approach, but at the same time sets out ambitious objectives such as insolvency proceedings, taxation, but also the fund of venture capital funds or the european personal pension. there are also problems and challenges that need to be fully aware of. the european investment fund is an essential instrument in this respect, the dissemination of credit information for small and mediumsized enterprises requires effective and common supporting instruments, the removal of internal barriers to the internal market is essential, banks, especially regional banks, play an essential role, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises, which must not be undermined but supported. the european parliament will therefore play its full part in tackling these problems and challenges.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the intentions behind the capital markets union are certainly good, at least in words, because the reality of the facts is unfortunately very different, as is the ultimate objective of this proposal. the ultimate aim is to achieve a new financial deregulation, based on the bad decisions taken in this area over the last 20 years. it is no wonder that the proponent of this proposal is lord hill himself, the voice of the city of london financial lobby. the continuous references to the us model as an example are completely inappropriate and misleading, since we know very well how different the entrepreneurial fabric of european smes is from that of their american counterparts. it's not getting the small savers to invest in financial products that will solve the problems, if we ever create new ones, as happened in 2008. but we agree on one point, namely that there is a serious problem of access to credit, especially for smes. we believe that there is only one solution, namely that the banks return to their traditional role of collecting deposits and extending credit, and this can only be achieved by a banking separation on the model of american glass-steagall. only in this way can we distinguish between those who want to engage in speculative activities freely and those who must have a much more important task, namely to finance the real economy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this long-awaited project, whose main task is to reduce the economy's dependence on the banking system, thereby improving the financing capacity of enterprises and supporting the fundamental objective of reviving the economy and creating jobs, must of course be welcomed. i would like to stress, however, the need to focus on supporting small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the backbone of our economic system, but which too often remain small precisely because of the lack of the necessary financial support both through debt capital and through risk capital. it is small and mediumsized enterprises that suffer most from access to credit, sometimes from the high cost of credit, and often from disparities in national market conditions. i hope therefore that the cmu will finally be able to create a level playing field for european businesses within it and also with other more advanced economic and financial systems.
in writing. in 2008, the world financial system collapsed like a fragile house of cards, generating an unprecedented economic and social crisis. savers who had entrusted their life's work to the financial markets found themselves with nothing but scrap paper. the appalling discovery that some national budgets have been manipulated with the complicity of europe and the financial lobbies has confirmed the total lack of transparency of european markets. liquidity has disappeared, demand has collapsed, even the most solid companies have failed and those that miraculously survived have relocated. what is europe doing in the face of this? it adopts the german recipe, blaming the member states and punishing them with austerity blows. the european council in brussels in december last year, in the context of the european council in brussels, stressed the need to strengthen the european union's role in the world economy. it abolishes fiscal sovereignty by imposing the sgei. today, he is talking about a new liberalisation of the financial markets to put people's savings in the pockets of the very lobbies for which commissioner hill worked. the crisis caused by uncontrolled financial expansion and austerity-based care has reduced our citizens to starvation. enough of this europe where those who decide have not been elected and the elected have no say in the matter.
in writing. the capital markets union represents a positive opportunity for the european union as a whole, and it is above all a challenge for the italian economic and financial landscape. this is an ambitious project, one of the most important undertaken by commissioner hill so far. this text is a natural complement to the european investment plan presented by the commission; both are seeking to boost european growth by creating a better investment market to encourage the most innovative and virtuous companies. the text thus fits within the framework of greater financial integration and at the same time aims to strengthen competition in the union. the aim is to harmonise the capital market so that countries whose banking systems are currently severely blocked can benefit from a more dynamic and widespread model of recovery. in this respect, however, it is important to remember that the work done so far by the legislators in terms of greater protection of depositors and risk reduction within the financial world must not be reduced.
in writing. the recent crisis that began in 2008 has necessitated a series of stricter regulations to protect citizens and savers. the crisis has also shown that the special structure of the european credit market is heavily imbalanced in favour of traditional banks, which provide the bulk of credit in circulation. when these enterprises were in a liquidity crisis on the one hand and subjected to stricter regulation on the other, it was the real economy, and in particular small and mediumsized enterprises and individuals, that suffered first and foremost. now that the recovery is beginning to show tangible signs, the commission has felt it necessary to support it by increasing the flow of liquidity into the system, which means first of all diversifying the types of credit, reducing the role of banks, but above all breaking down national boundaries, giving rise to a real single market for capital. we must welcome this decision, since it will really benefit the productive sector, young people and families. we are, however, waiting for assurances on some of the key points of this project, first of all the consequent increase in the risk of contagion.
the reporter . madam president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-president of the commission, tomorrow we will be adopting the compromise text on the new directive on payment services in the internal market. this directive is in addition to the regulation on interbank commissions drawn up by mr zalba and completes the package of legislative proposals on the european payments market presented by commissioner barnier during the last legislature, a package which i also shared and supported in my previous capacity as vice-president of the european commission. the final compromise was supported by all the political groups and was unanimously approved by the econ committee. i therefore thank the european parliament's negotiating team, which, under the leadership of president ferber, has achieved excellent results during the difficult negotiations with the council. i also thank all the shadow rapporteurs who have actively contributed to the drafting of a good legislative text. in europe, the retail payments market is dynamic and has undergone a lot of renewal over the past few years. 34% of europeans now shop almost exclusively online and over 50% own a smartphone, giving them access to the world of mobile payments. for some sectors of the economy, such as the travel sector, the majority of sales are now made exclusively via the internet. the measure we are about to adopt will regulate internet payment services, i.e. those services which intervene in the relationship between the merchant and the buyer's bank, allowing payments to be made without a credit card. the new rules will also cover the activities of the current account information services. these services provide the user with aggregated online information on one or more accounts used to make payments. it is a service which allows small businesses and craftsmen in particular to have a general overview of their financial situation at any time. the final agreement will also reduce the risk of fraud. all payment service providers will be required to adopt secure, authenticated or encrypted communication technologies, which will be regularly assessed and updated by the european banking authority. the main beneficiaries of the new directive will be consumers, who will benefit from reduced costs and greater legal protection. the amendments proposed by parliament and adopted will also bring a number of benefits to consumers: first, they will receive information on the transactions carried out free of charge; secondly, they will be entitled to unconditional reimbursement in the event of fraud and unauthorised payments. we are also solving the problems that citizens and businesses face every day when making payments online or via mobile devices. we are also opening up the market to new players and reducing the costs of an overly fragmented and expensive system, whose total cost today is about eur 130 billion a year. the new directive which parliament will adopt in its final form tomorrow will strengthen the competitiveness of the european payments market by encouraging innovation and security in a sector which is undergoing constant change. given the exponential growth of electronic commerce, the new rules will give a decisive impetus to the development of a single market that is increasingly geared to the needs of consumers and businesses.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the revision of this 2002 payment services directive is to increase competition and efficiency in the payments sector, ensuring a level playing field for consumer protection. so i welcome the work that has been done by president tajani, but unfortunately we were not able to follow that in the last legislature because we were not able to participate in the initial amendment process because we were obviously not yet represented in this parliament. we have nevertheless appreciated the text voted by parliament and its content and have followed closely the trilogues which were held under the latvian presidency. on the one hand, there has certainly been a great deal of progress, both in the inclusion of additional payment service providers such as credit cards in the directive and in the area of access to information, preventing fraud and abuse. on the other hand, the negotiating team, in order to close, had to accept some minor downward compromises on a few points: an exemption for the telecommunications sector, as decided by the council, provided that the value of each transaction does not exceed eur 50, over eur 100 per month; the right of withdrawal for consumers is free of charge and guaranteed only after six months, whereas parliament would have wanted it to be free of charge at all times. an increase in the threshold from eur 1 million to eur 3 million of annual transactions, as the necessary clause to derogate from the provisions of the directive, thus increasing the number of suppliers eligible for the exemption. i am glad, however, because i must say that mr tajani has done a good job in the negotiations and so compared to other negotiations i have certainly seen a good deal of negotiation from parliament and so tomorrow we will see as a delegation whether to vote in favour or at most to think about abstaining.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the rapid technological developments of recent years have certainly made it necessary to revise the rules governing this sector. this revision also comes at a very opportune time, given the emergence of new players in the electronic transactions market, i am thinking of the manufacturers of mobile devices or even the manufacturers of operating systems which now regulate our objects and which threaten to occupy a significant part of financial transactions, so it was very important that the conditions for the birth and strengthening of a genuine european electronic payment system were created. there are growing opportunities and potential that are beginning to emerge in terms of cost savings, efficiency and user convenience, control of tax behaviour, security in logistics, but also some critical issues for which it was good to raise the attention threshold, in particular with regard to data processing, transparency and information. i too agree that this is a very good measure and i congratulate the rapporteurs, the main rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs. i would remind you that the digital single market bill is currently being discussed in committee and will soon be before the house. it is clear that there is no digital single market if there is not also a digital payment system at the same time and the digital payment system therefore becomes essential that it is consistent and adequate to the great expectations that we have and that we all place in the digital single market. europe believes that the digital single market will play an important role in economic growth and job creation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as has been rightly pointed out, we should give due thanks to those who have dealt with this subject and in particular to the rapporteur, mr tajani, for having identified one of the crucial points in terms of consumer protection for small and mediumsized enterprises within the broad range of the digital agenda on which this parliament and the commission are measuring up. we know that the need to create a genuine single market for payments is hampered by a number of technical and legal barriers which we cannot help but tackle with the approach that has been rightly identified in the work on the amendment of the directive on payment services which we are discussing today and which will be put to the vote tomorrow. the costs of this delay are enormous. it has been said that more than 120 billion euros a year can be taken away from a system which normally then charges these costs to the weaker parties mentioned at the beginning and there are many formulas, we have debit cards, mobile telephony, cards issued even by supermarkets. this is to avoid the most expensive method of making payments, namely the use of cash, being slowly reduced to a minimum. the commission - we have discussed this several times in our working groups - has estimated that an electronic transaction costs a few cents, while a transaction made through cash payment can cost up to 55 cents per unit. we are confident that these new developments will bring real, tangible and expected benefits to the actors mentioned, which we often discuss, provided that the operators who will be called upon to provide these services are put in a real competitive position and that this will allow us to have the three great tools of transparency, speed and cost reduction, which help the three great actors we like best, namely consumers, start-ups and small and medium-sized enterprises.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to thank all members for this debate. this proposal is a good example of what the eu can do in the everyday challenges of ordinary people and businesses. madam president, i have listened very carefully to what members of parliament have said here and there seems to be very wide agreement on the necessity to foster innovation and allow competition, while ensuring high levels of consumer protection and safe and secure payment transactions. this text is balanced and fair. i do not want to take up too much of your valuable time, but i would just like to say that, because this issue is something that touches many people on the ground and also small and mediumsized enterprises, it would make a lot of sense if members here who have participated in this work and who understand the value of the proposal can help to publicise this, to ensure that people really understand that there are new opportunities coming, and that this is one of the examples of where we need a more integrated europe. this is a concrete issue that may sound very technical, and indeed it is quite technical, but its impact on everyone's lives is not technical: it has a lot of impact. so i want to once again thank mr tajani, as rapporteur, and also mr ferber for chairing the trilogue on this very important topic.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the analysis of vice-president katainen. tomorrow we will send a positive signal to the citizens and to the entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized craftsmen of the european union. the european parliament, thanks to the joint work and the strong support of the commission which has given birth to this initiative, is sending a positive signal. europe is not the enemy of its citizens. europe wants to be close to its citizens and try to solve its own problems. it is true that this is a very technical text, but the substance is very political. i therefore think it is right to heed the call of vice-president katainen to make sure that this text is made public, especially to young people, the future consumers. mr rübig asked what the advantages are for small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. vice-president katainen, i remember your strong engagement during your work as prime minister in your country, where your work favoured small and medium-sized companies. now we need your strong engagement over the coming months and year. it is important to monitor the implementation of this directive in every member state. your power and the european commission's power is very important to us, as is the fact of having your engagement on this. people want your support and they want our support, but it is important that the implementation of this directive is controlled and checked each year.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner cañete, red mud is waste generated by industrial aluminium production and the red mud incident that occurred five years ago in hungary is the basis of the oral question in this debate, as it was an environmental disaster of european dimensions. on 4 october 2010, the rupture of a collection basin in hungary caused the leakage of approximately one million cubic metres of red mud with high alkaline content, which flooded several villages, killed ten people and injured about 150 others, as well as polluting large areas of land, including four sites in the natura 2000 network area. the accident highlighted the waste disposal problems of the mining industry, the shortcomings in inspections and also showed that these problems can lead to sometimes tragic consequences. there are also technical and economic difficulties that local authorities and civil society have had to face during the rehabilitation phase. i think a lot of things have to change if we really want to prevent such disasters from happening again in the future. of course, there will always be a risk, but our aim is to improve the level of efficiency of the mining industry and to significantly reduce the likelihood that events similar to what happened in hungary five years ago will occur again. as regards prevention, member states are called upon to review their permits for such industrial sites, in view of the correct classification of waste. the directive on waste management and extractive industries must therefore be fully implemented and we ask the commission to monitor its full implementation. member states also need to strengthen their environmental inspections and monitoring regimes, we already asked the european commission in 2008 to come forward with a legislative proposal on environmental controls and so we can only repeat the same request on this occasion and in a stronger way, also in view of what happened after 2008. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the prevention of the dumping of waste. we also need support from the commission for some stress tests for mines with large settling basins. we do not want these reservoirs to give rise to problems similar to those of the disaster five years ago. as for disaster mitigation and remediation, we are still waiting for the european commission's report on the implementation of the environmental liability directive to be published in april 2014. we also believe that financial instruments are of crucial importance and therefore call for all possible aspects to be explored, both in terms of the ceilings of the financial guarantee instruments already established, and in terms of the mandatory financial guarantee instruments, as well as the broader concept of a european sharing of the risks of environmental disasters. finally, we must stress the role and financial transparency, the importance of civil society and access to justice, all of which deserve attention from the european institutions. in conclusion, commissioner, only if we all intensify our efforts will we be able to say that we have finally learned the lesson of the red mud disaster five years after the accident, and that we have put in place concrete measures to prevent similar disasters and to eliminate the pollution caused by mining.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would say that the terrible environmental disaster of the red muds in hungary is just another example for us of the gaps in european legislation and the serious shortcomings in the inspections by the institutions. the european institutions and national governments themselves have not listened to the citizens who had been desperately calling for their release, and we have once again seen the inability to protect their health. so let us at least learn from this experience to prevent it from happening again and involve citizens in decisions concerning the management of hazardous waste, citizens who know much more than you think, for example, i am sure they understand much better than our commissioner here who talks to us about the circular economy, but who at the same time also tells us that to increase and implement the circular economy we must increase extractions. i will take a simple citizen who knows more about the circular economy than the commissioner who is here. this is not possible, this is not acceptable.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i therefore very much agree with what has been said by the members this evening. i would like to stress one point, however, which concerns the involvement of citizens in risk management, so it is essential that local communities are involved in planning risk management measures, and it is also essential that they are given as clear information as possible about the dangers present in their area, which is unfortunately not done in a clear way all too often. one of the things that should be strengthened, which is also mentioned in paragraph 14 of the resolution, concerns the strengthening of inspection activities. well, we agree, it's absolutely the way to go. i am thinking of italy, my country, where the state forestry service, which is the body responsible for the control and protection of the territory, is about to be dismantled for these activities, and therefore, unfortunately, in opposition to the good intentions that come from europe.
member of the commission.– mr president, i want to thank all the participants in this debate for the very constructive declarations. first of all, i will refer to a question from mr gerbrandy, mr jávor and mr frunzulică, which is the question of implementation of directives. the commission is monitoring the implementation of the directive on the management of extractive waste – mainly on the basis of reported information submitted by member states referring almost exclusively to legal adaptation processes, but the commission services are exploring additional ways to obtain a more integrated and broader picture of the implementation of the directive on the ground. and, when needed, the commission has launched legal proceedings to address identified shortcomings in the transposition or implementation of this legislation. legal proceedings on extractive waste have been opened for hungary, for instance, as well as for denmark, italy, poland, portugal, romania and spain, inter alia. the commission is also in the process of identifying the main areas where further action may be required. as a first step, based on reporting from member states, the commission plans to submit a report on implementation of the directive to the european parliament and the council at the beginning of 2016. as a further step, the commission will carry out a more in-depth assessment of the level of implementation of relevant provisions of the directive. all this information will allow the commission to identify implementation gaps and best practices and take additional action to promote compliance with the objectives of the directive. as regards inspection issues, while acknowledging that enforcement and inspections remain key issues in the hands of the member states, the commission is currently considering the follow-up to be given in this respect and in the wider context of compliance assurance, as set out by the seventh environmental action programme. specifically in answer to ms kyllönen on the question of legislation on hazardous waste, the european waste list has recently been modified to ensure, inter alia, that red mud is assessed for hazardous properties. when classified by the member states as hazardous waste it would be subject to strict control requirements, provided for in the waste framework directive, for its management, labelling and transport.
i have received a motion for a resolution1 pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 8 october 2015. the following table is presented: see the minutes.
the agenda includes the discussion of the council and commission statements on 'doubling the capacity of the nord stream pipeline and implications for the energy union and security of supply' [2015/2880(rsp]'.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the issues of energy security and the need for closer cooperation in this area, both internally and with our partners, have been high on the union's political agenda. energy is a geostrategic sector and security of supply is a major issue for the european union. in this respect, many measures have already been taken in the past. i would like to mention, amongst others, the implementation of the third package on the internal market, the directives on renewable energy and energy efficiency, which strengthen our independence, the commission communication to the european parliament and the council on the european strategy for energy security, cooperation with neighbouring countries within the energy community. at the end of 2014, the energy union was launched. the presidency considers that this was a major step forward, a qualitative leap in the development of european energy policy and in the strengthening of security of supply. this union has five equally important dimensions: security of supply, a fully integrated internal energy market, energy efficiency, emission reduction and, finally, research and innovation. on this last point, i would like to recall that the presidency recently organized the energy technology week in luxembourg, which brought together more than 500 experts in the sector, energy ministers and business leaders, including entrepreneurs in the field of renewable energies. the energy union also puts forward the strengthening of regional cooperation in the field of energy, which will allow for greater integration of markets while saving and creating energy in terms of investment. in addition, in the context of the implementation of the energy union and, more specifically, of the strengthening of the security of gas supply, the council expects the european commission to present, as i understand it, in 2016 a set of proposals on the supply of natural gas. the presidency shall follow the preparatory work, including at the level of public consultations on these issues. more specifically, the council has not yet adopted a formal position on the nord stream gas pipeline extension project. it is a commercial project between russian and western companies. the presidency is fully aware that this project involves energy, economic, geopolitical and environmental challenges. it raises questions, in particular as regards the project's contribution to the diversification of routes and energy sources in the union and its impact on other countries. the commission, as guardian of the treaties and of compliance with union law, is responsible for examining the draft in the light of the legal framework established and, in particular, the rules relating to the internal market. the presidency would like to assure you that this matter is being followed up in the council. it also continues to advance the implementation of the energy union and, in particular, the strengthening of the security of supply and energy independence of the european union, including the development and promotion of renewable energy. energy and climate today, we hear a lot of messages about climate are, in this respect, closely linked.
member of the commission.– mr president, honourable members allow me to start by reinforcing a key message: ensuring secure and resilient energy supplies to european citizens and companies is a top priority for the commission. in the coming months alone we will put forward a review of the gas security of supply regulation, publish a new comprehensive liquefied natural gas (lng) and gas storage strategy and propose changes to the intergovernmental agreements (idas) in order to make sure that they are in line with european security-of-supply objectives. that is also why we have committed to diversifying our energy sources, suppliers and routes. the goal is simple: putting an end to overdependence on a single supplier or route and giving member states potential sources of gas, be it pipeline gas from different sources or energy storage. in this regard, we will tap into a rapidly growing energy market which will allow us to more than double our imports from around 40 million m3 to up to 90 million m3 by 2020. we will invest in doubling our storage and accelerate the work on better interconnections between member states. we are making good progress in this area. in fact, in the last few months alone we managed to have the first tangible results in regions that are still insufficiently linked within the internal market. let me give you a few examples. the new high level group on gas connectivity in central, eastern and south-east europe will increase interconnectors in that region in the post-south-stream situation. the political agreement in july between spain, portugal and france on the development of the midcat pipeline will increase gas interconnection capacity within the iberian peninsula and the rest of europe. we are hopeful that midcat will be operational by 2020. work is also on track for our first delivery of 10 billion m3 per year of gas from azerbaijan to europe in 2020 through the trans-anatolian and the trans-adriatic pipelines. the restructured baltic energy market interconnection plan (bemip) will be our key instrument for integrating the baltic countries fully into europe. we will see that come to fruition this week when the agreement on the gas interconnector between poland and lithuania (gipl) will be signed. that project includes a planned contribution of almost eur 300 million. i cannot stress how important that work is, because, as it stands, the european union is still importing most of its gas from russia, about half of which currently crosses ukraine –and that brings me on to nord stream ii. the commission has taken note of the shareholder’s agreement to build further stretches of the nord stream pipeline. the first thing to say is that nord stream ii remains a commercial project and of course it will be for the commercial party to decide which infrastructure is valuable for them. but let me be clear, as with any other pipeline in the european union, this pipeline will have to comply fully with european union law, in particular the third energy package but also environmental, competition and public procurement rules. the commission will assess it rigorously against the european regulatory framework, and that assessment will be done on its own merits. transport capacity from russia is currently at a rate of around only 50%, and that already well exceeds the likely future needs of the european union in terms of supply. if constructed, according to our estimation, nord stream ii will further increase the excess transmission capacity from russia. i want to stress that the commission actively supports efforts to ensure that ukraine is and will remain a stable and reliable transit route. let finish by underlining the fact that the european union remains open for russian gas, and we would like to see russia as a reliable supplier of natural gas in the future, but we would also like to see that the transport of russian gas feeds into our diversification strategy and that the russian supplier, like any other supplier in the european union, plays to our competition and energy market rules.
the commission is concerned about the announced intention to double the capacity of nord stream. this would, as has just been mentioned, increase dependence on russian gas and reduce the transit routes from russia to the point of origin in the countries of the european union. today there are three: nord stream not doubled, yamal via belarus, the ukraine transit network, and it would become two. so there is a first problem of diversification of transit routes. reducing routes means calling into question the already weak balance between member states in terms of energy supplies. this is a major problem, especially for those who are currently engaged in the construction of the most ambitious project of european governance in energy policy, of which security of supply is a fundamental component. it is also a serious problem for the union as a whole, regardless of the exclusive dimension of energy policy, because cutting off ukraine from gas routes means weakening the consolidation process of this country and exposing eastern europe to heavy russian influence. the russian supplier announced that supplies to the ukrainian gts will end in 2020, thus foreshadowing for kiev the loss of many billions of euros paid to it annually in the form of transit fees; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the economic and social crisis. i would like to conclude by saying that south stream has been virtually sunk by this hypothesis and has been sunk by criticisms that today fit perfectly with nord stream.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, many speeches have framed the doubling of nord stream as a problem, but let us try to see it also as a symptom of elements of other unresolved issues. the union is far behind in the energy transition, and unfortunately still needs russian gas. we have repeatedly brought this up in this house and have not been heard. we are facing geopolitical choices which have even stimulated the alteration of very delicate balances, no one would have thought of doubling nord stream if ukraine had really been helped and if stabilization had been initiated instead of fomenting colour revolutions and a new cold war on our borders. it is clear that we are suffering from the lack of a strong political and democratic union with a few hegemonic states that take decisions as they please, easily influenced by the interests of financial and industrial giants and that do not act in the interests of all the citizens of the union. yet the majority of this parliament still enthusiastically supports the austerity line and the euro-mark, which have brought the social systems, the citizens and the businesses of southern europe to their knees. fellas, this case is much more serious. we are still silent. what about the sanctions against russia that are imposed as mandatory in every resolution on the subject? who will pay for the damage done to our entrepreneurs in southern europe, primarily the greeks and italians? germany, perhaps, with the future profits of nord stream? and the ukrainian people have we forgotten? these are all things which you know very well, and so let us try to act as good doctors of a sick union to act on causes for the future of the union itself and the welfare of our electors. we believe that not only an energy transition towards decarbonisation is necessary to combine the highest geopolitical security and european sovereignty with the highest environmental climate security, but also a different foreign policy to assert our way as a power committed to peace, to good neighbourliness with all the nations around us, without being directed by anyone and we strongly demand that no member state is primus inter pares for a true community of all europeans.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the treaties and strategies drawn up and signed by the european union and the 2030 sustainable development goals recently published by the united nations, i believe that parliament should commit itself and use the resources at its disposal to better implement the second objective, both at union and national level. sustainable is a development that monitors and increases access to education, services and health for girls, sustainable is a development that creates the conditions for women to choose a job that is rewarding for them and equally paid compared to their male colleagues. we have, thanks to the eige (european institute for gender equality), an indicator of gender equality, whose data, which can be slow to disaggregate, indicate where action is urgently needed. i suggest we start there. i also suggest that all member states, particularly the southern european countries, should draw up a gender equality indicator which can also be used at regional level to monitor the situation and enable effective action to be taken. among the sustainable development goals, we also find the right to development, which is partly translated into global goals between governments of so-called developed countries and developing countries. this is all about us.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we recently had the opportunity to take a closer look at the situation of women's employment in europe at a meeting of a delegation from the femm committee in ireland at eurofound. what emerges is a disturbing, if not alarming, picture. as regards the gender gap in employment, the rate of posting in europe averages around 10%, with peaks in, for example, my own country, italy, where the gap reaches 20% in the 30 to 40 age group. this means that not enough has been done in recent years either for employment policies or for family welfare systems and early childhood. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the proposal. here a more cultural discourse comes into play, since it is based on discriminatory practices perpetrated in all the states of the union and which the 2006 directive to which the záborská report refers aims to combat. we therefore welcome the basic content of this dossier, but we are against the introduction of excessive penalties and bureaucratic practices which are likely to increase the administrative burden already imposed on companies. it is good to work on anti-discrimination policies, but without being too hard on employers, who are often blameless.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if you are a woman and you work as much as a man and you earn less, the figures are now definitive, on average we are at around 16%, as the report claims, but there are areas of europe where this figure, this percentage, reaches very worrying levels: 20 to 25 percent. let's ask ourselves why. why are women less productive? do they have a lesser knowledge and skill? are they working less hard in the workplace? it would be really strange to argue some of these arguments. so, if there are no real irrational reasons, the gender pay gap is a gap that needs to be closed now. equal treatment is a principle which has been in the european system since 1957, but the data tell us that we are still a long way from its full implementation. perhaps we are not working with the right spirit and the right determination. we know that this is not a directive to break down stereotypes and prejudices, but i support the rapporteur in calling on the commission to come up with a new directive and to apply it more rigorously by the member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity that the text deals with wage discrimination, which is fundamental for us, for many women, especially in italy, but it has been weighed down by the inversion of the burden of proof for the employer, by the mandatory sanctions, by the exclusion of companies from public procurement as regards european financing. i would also like to ask the rapporteur to reflect on one point: the text introduces a new legal case, multiple discrimination, and thus becomes discriminatory against women, because one woman will have a simple discrimination and another sensitive category will have multiple discrimination, which invalidates the legal concept of discrimination. the discrimination is unique, there can be no discrimination of the a-series and discrimination of the b-series. for this reason, unfortunately, despite the fundamental concepts that should have been introduced, i shall vote against.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that i have spoken in this house on women's rights and gender equality. i must say that, despite the existence of european directives, we are still far from achieving the objectives and even from the application of european legislation. the new directive which the rapporteur has called for is therefore welcome. as the report on the european union strategy for equality between women and men after 2015 shows, women are underrepresented in decision-making processes, in parliaments, in national governments, but also in companies, especially large ones. in short, progress has been made in all areas, but it will still take 81 years to close the gap in employment opportunities between men and women, and on our continent we must also deal with the fact that 20 to 25 per cent of women experience violence at least once in their lives, including in the workplace. europe cannot simply denounce the situation, it must ensure that european legislation on gender equality is actually respected. it is right to ensure equal opportunities and equal rights for men and women, but this must not justify radical deviations which must be opposed with energy and determination.
in writing. if you are a woman, you work as much as a man and earn less. in the european union, women earn about 16% less than men. let's ask ourselves why. are they 16% less intelligent? they work 16% less? they're committing 16% less? do they know 16% less than their male colleagues? it would be strange to make such a claim. so, if there are no real, rational reasons, then the gender pay gap is a gap that needs to be closed now. equal treatment is a principle which has been in the european system since 1957, but the data tell us that we are still far from its full implementation. maybe we're not working on it enough. we know that a directive does not do away with stereotypes and prejudices, but i support the rapporteur in calling on the commission to come up with a new directive and to apply it more rigorously by the member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the creation of telecommunications networks and digital services that can cross national borders is essential in order to support the strategy of the digital single market in europe. the primary value of consumer protection must be taken into account, as consumers deserve the highest possible level of protection for both transactions and the usability of the goods purchased, without geoblocking. the transparency of online purchasing processes, the uniform application of the legislative framework and equal conditions for the provision of services are therefore absolute imperatives for protective and growth-enhancing european legislation. the commission has also found that the measures in question are not compatible with the internal market, as the commission has already established in recital (374) of the provisional regulation. i hope that the commission will take up the court's decision and the complex scenarios it offers, striking the right balance between the objective of supporting the digital single market strategy and protecting consumers in their free use of online content and services.
member of the commission.– mr president, i want to thank the honourable members again for their questions and comments on this very important issue of consumer protection and discrimination. this is an issue on which we can all agree that the current situation is not acceptable, when we look at the potential we are promising to our citizens and consumers in the internal market. in the current situation, we are supposed to have access to online and cross-border purchases, yet we cannot be fully guaranteed that because the offer is not available to another country, or because we cannot be sure of getting fair treatment compared to another consumer. the internal market is about offering everyone the chance to access – everywhere on eu territory – the services he or she needs, even from another eu country. i want to be clear: freedoms always have to be balanced against one another and there is not any which is more important than the other. so we need to balance contractual freedom with the right of consumers not to be unfairly discriminated against because of their place of residence. but we also need to recognise that there is no ‘obligation to sell’ or to unify prices throughout the single market. where this balance lies will depend on the outcome of the consultation and the discussions with the stakeholders and member states. article 20 of the services directive lays down the basic principles which member states should implement and apply. if a member state is in breach of these principles, the commission can initiate action against the member state. it appears that many member states have not taken sufficient action to put this principle of non-discrimination into practice. buying online has aggravated the current problems and a more comprehensive, effective and consumer-friendly solution is necessary. legislative proposals will be made by the commission as a follow-up to the digital single market strategy and the forthcoming internal market strategy.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the central african republic is yet another situation which risks degenerating into an uncontrolled civil war, and it is yet another situation in africa where we are faced with a country which is very rich in resources, very rich in growth potential, but which in reality remains subject to a different kind of colonization, because it is true that the official one, the one of the states, the french one, is over, but it is true that the economic one has begun, especially in the wood market. and here we can give an example of our inconsistent policies, because we have concluded several agreements as the european union, but still today, it is recorded by many ngos that, around the export of wood, there is the financing of rebels and therefore the cause of these conflicts.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent outbreak of violence between the different religious communities in the central african republic is very worrying and this deterioration of the situation is a new episode of the crisis that the country has been facing since 2012. over the past three years, extremely serious crimes, including war crimes and crimes against humanity, have been committed in the central african republic. we therefore need to intervene in a very clear way, we need for example a functioning judicial system which is indispensable for carrying out a thorough investigation into all violations of human rights and international humanitarian law and we think it is necessary that the african union and the european union are obliged to use all appropriate measures and instruments to help the government of the central african republic to overcome this state of crisis and to transition to a new inclusive and democratic state. we need to work in this direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the central african republic, a country where in 2014 one child died every day, and where 10,000 were recruited by the various warring factions in the same year. since 1960 this state has been in a state of almost constant instability and civil war, thanks also to ethnic and religious fragmentation, but above all thanks to the so-called economic neocolonization which has led to a state in which we have a clear lack of means of transport, often the wounded cannot be taken to hospitals, where drinking water covers a ridiculous area of the country. as always, the richer the resources, the poorer the citizens. mr corrao mentioned precious wood, the intervention of european multinationals, and this could very well be extended to diamonds, which unfortunately were not included in the draft dossier on conflict minerals by this parliament and the commission. the violence perpetrated by the military of other countries on peacekeeping missions must also be strongly condemned, and we must therefore make ourselves credible in order to disarm them. if we do not put an end to the actions of our multinationals, it will be very difficult to get out of the political and humanitarian crisis and it will be very difficult to have credible elections.
member of the commission.– mr president, we welcome the adoption of parliament’s urgent resolution on the new outbreak of violence in the central african republic (car). the european union condemns in the strongest terms the recent violence, as voiced in the statement from the spokesperson for the high representative/vice-president issued on 28 september 2015. those behind these actions, in and outside the country, should be held accountable. deplorably, humanitarian workers have again been targeted, and prevented from doing their work. we also call for the observance of international humanitarian law. i want to express the european union’s solidarity with the victims of these last few days. the overwhelming majority of citizens of the central african republic deserve – for the country’s prospects for peace and recovery – and demand an end to conflict and division between communities. at a time when the country is nearing the end of the transition, recent events demonstrate that elections, reconciliation and security should remain our priorities for the coming months. i want to reiterate the eu’s strong support for the transitional authorities. in particular, i would like to compliment the transition head of state, catherine samba-panza. there is no alternative to the transition process. the electoral process must continue. everything must be done to achieve a level of inclusiveness, transparency and credibility that will lead to an outcome accepted by all: a legitimate, post-transition government with a new constitution endorsed by the majority of the country’s citizens. this needs to go hand in hand with renewed efforts for reconciliation and the restoration of social cohesion. security remains another priority, not only in view of the elections. the car is still too dangerous a place – there should be no tolerance for any party which refuses to abide by the disarmament and cessation of hostilities and violence agreements. the eu recalls that there can be no reconciliation without justice. also, let us not lose sight of the still ongoing humanitarian crisis affecting over half of the population. the european union will continue to provide humanitarian assistance to those in need. furthermore, it is building bridges between humanitarian aid and longer-term development action. this is the objective of the bêkou trust fund that has mobilised to date eur 108 million. the european union remains fully committed, together with its partners on the ground, to assist the people of the central african republic in the humanitarian field. to close: the car is at a turning point in its history. it can set an example of recovery and stabilisation. it will require goodwill and, above all, determination by the leaders in bangui and all of the international community. thus, it is important to keep the car on the international agenda at this very critical moment of the transition process. today’s urgent debate is a concrete contribution to preventing the car becoming a forgotten crisis again.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with what mr czarnecki said about the fact that when we talk about thailand, it is often and gladly a beautiful tourist destination for european citizens and that almost no one knows what political conditions thailand is in. after the coup, we had an escalation of repression, an escalation of violence, a situation where anyone who opposes the military regime is silenced anyway. it is true that relations between the european union and thailand have somewhat softened, but it is also true that we as the european union are still able to put pressure on the military junta to initiate a process leading to the democratization of the country. and that's what we have to try to do, through, precisely, our economic strength, as well as diplomatic, to try to bring thailand back to a democratic process, because it's really very important.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thailand has been going through a serious political and institutional crisis for some time. it is a country where human rights are not fully safeguarded. we must close the present stage and there are two points we wish to stress: first of all, it is important to give the country a new democratic constitution and set a date for elections, and to respect this date to ensure the transition from military junta to democratic government. secondly, it is essential to focus on human rights, and particularly the rights of workers, which are seriously under question. the un has called the current condition of workers in the fishing industry a modern form of slavery, as well as in the natural fruit pineapple factory denounced by british activist andy hall. we must combat these abuses and we call on the european union not to conclude any fisheries agreement unless these problems are addressed and resolved.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the situation of children in nigeria, and therefore about the displacement of children due to the activities of boko haram in the country, it is clear that we must refer to the general situation in nigeria, which is the richest country in africa, but consistently one of the most dangerous countries where there is more poverty, as a paradox, and where there are situations such as the one we are describing. millions of children are fleeing, millions of children, as denounced by unicef, the united nations agency for the rights of the child, for whom funds are lacking, including for water, including for basic rights, and we should be committed to this as the european parliament and try to push the international community to find those funds. we must not neglect another aspect, which is that this is nigeria, and so the children we are talking about are children being used as child soldiers and this is also a subject on which we are doing very little and there are many complaints that are not just about nigeria, but that are about this issue. above all, we should try to ensure that these children, when they are taken from the militias, are placed in social reintegration programmes and not punished as soldiers.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in nigeria the insecurity caused by the conflict between the armed group boko haram, the military and the civilian self-defence groups has forced over 1 400 000 children, half of them under the age of five, to flee their homes. the humanitarian situation continues to deteriorate due to difficulties in accessing food, drinking water and sanitation, and children are at risk of dying from malaria, malnutrition and being drawn into a cycle of violence, separated from their families, exposed to exploitation and recruited into armed groups. young women and girls have been abducted and subjected to forced marriage, physical and psychological abuse, forced labour and rape. also, children are often strapped to bombs and detonated in public places. that is why we are voting this resolution and calling for the international community to take this situation seriously, starting with the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the news coming from nigeria, unfortunately we are reading a war report, and the cost of it is children and young people between the ages of 5 and 14 who are being used in a vile way for kamikaze attacks. the united nations, through its agency, unicef, has stated that only 32 percent of the 50 million euros needed to deal with this emergency has been received. well, international donors, including the european union, must do more, they must send additional funds, measures must also be taken to protect civilians and girls who have been raped must be allowed to benefit from medical services, including abortion, with the assistance of social rehabilitation programmes. but we also have to understand that if we don't adopt more far-sighted and sustainable policies and if we don't intervene at the root of the terrorism problem, which is conditions of poverty and ineffective governance and corruption, we will never solve the problem either in nigeria or elsewhere. we must solve today's crises and prevent tomorrow's by changing our behaviour.
member of the commission.– madam president, colleagues, thank you for giving me the opportunity to comment on the humanitarian situation in north-eastern nigeria, in particular that of children. thank you for your comments. it was a very rich discussion. i was there two or three months ago. i visited areas very close to the areas controlled by boko haram and it is very clear that the violence perpetrated by boko haram is still most worrying, with, unfortunately, no predictable perspective for improvement yet. some progress in engaging against boko haram has been achieved by the new authorities in nigeria, together with its neighbouring countries, but the terrorists continue to perpetrate attacks on an almost daily basis. this is not only extending insecurity and human suffering, we also see that children are increasingly used as weapons to carry out suicide attacks. this situation is unacceptable and calls for our continued commitment. the crisis caused by boko haram is one of the worst humanitarian crises worldwide. the number of internally displaced people (idps) in the north—east of nigeria has increased to over two million. in the whole lake chad region, about 700 000 children have been forced from their homes. the majority of them are staying with host communities, and not in official camps, and their needs in terms of food, education and health are most often not met. their vulnerability makes them easy targets for bad treatment and exploitation. we are following the situation closely, together with the un and humanitarian actors on the ground. we help nigeria with several instruments. firstly, through humanitarian aid, the european union is providing assistance in the areas of healthcare, food security and nutrition, shelter, protection, water and sanitation, with a special focus on children. the commission has been the leading humanitarian donor in nigeria since the beginning of the boko haram crisis, with a mobilisation of eur 20.5 million in the current year and eur 42.5 million for the whole lake chad region. we are currently preparing to provide support to the multinational joint taskforce that is being set up by the countries concerned. a significant amount has been set aside, around eur 50 million, but not all requirements are yet met to commit these funds. the coming weeks will bring more clarity. the european union also funds a specific counter-terrorism project that supports counter-radicalisation and de-radicalisation measures, observance of human rights in military operations, the establishment of communication systems and nigeria’s criminal justice response to terrorism. eu development assistance under the european development fund (edf) focuses on tackling the root causes of radicalisation and violence, and is targeted in part at children – in particular with projects on child protection and juvenile justice administration, child health, psychosocial support for boys and girls who are victims of armed conflict, and involving girls in peacebuilding efforts in north-east nigeria. nigeria is also a priority country for the eu in the children in armed conflict initiative, following the listing of the country in the un report on children and armed conflict. in mobilising this support, we are doing our best to address the situation of children suffering the consequences of boko haram violence. but, of course, much of the responsibility lies with national governments. we will stay committed to supporting them, and will continue to work with the united nations, civil society and our humanitarian partners on the ground.
in writing. deeply concerned about the protection of the rights of children in nigeria, where over 40% of the population is aged between 0 and 14; convinced of the importance of adequately protecting the rights of women and children in the fight against extremism; i strongly support the resolution calling on the nigerian authorities and the international community to work together to reverse the continuing trend of displacement. the military approach alone will not be enough to counter boko haram, whose actions have deprived the world's largest number of schoolchildren of access to education. too many children have gone missing, kidnapped or recruited as fighters and domestic workers. too many girls have been raped and forced into marriage or forced to convert to islam. separated from their families and forced by violence to flee for their lives, children in nigeria make up 58% of all internally displaced persons. although several humanitarian organisations are working in the camps, access to basic rights remains of a very low quality. the european parliament must do everything in its power to prevent the lives of so many children from being marred by daily incidents of violence and terror, as well as physical and psychological abuse.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, saudi arabia and human rights, we are talking again about this issue, which is the source of all the enormous inconsistency we have as the european union, because saudi arabia, which we consider to be our partner, a country with which we have good relations, a country that should not be condemned, is one of the countries in the world where the worst human rights violations occur and with which we should have a firmer pulse. what's going on? it is a fact that, in order to reward the fact that they condemn to crucifixion or condemn to death in all the most barbaric ways possible, it is a fact that their ambassador is appointed as a representative to the united nations for human rights with the support of the british government, and cameron, pressed on this question, did not know what to answer and kept saying yes, but we press for them to respect human rights, but on the other hand he systematically supported them. so let us try to understand, ladies and gentlemen, what kind of approach we should take to saudi arabia, because saudi arabia is a country which we must learn to condemn and sanction, otherwise there is no point in us being here to talk about human rights.
in writing. ‒ the text expresses in a consensual way the need to adapt the regulations on payment services to the current needs in the european internal market, i have my doubts that the solutions identified will really create the best conditions for consumers and greater and fairer competition in the sector, for these reasons i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe it is important to complete the internal market of the union with a system of payment services that is as homogeneous as possible, since the positive effects of such a solution would be innumerable.
in writing. - i abstained. the text is aimed at credit institutions and companies that provide 'electronic money' via credit cards. among the things that are not very convincing are the overly positive references to the possibilities for the development of e-commerce and its potential contribution to growth. we are not convinced by the excessive emphasis given to the eba, the european banking authority, over the competence of the member states. in addition, the text does not seem to take due account of the problems caused by the dominant position of certain operators (especially in the credit card sector) who have too often aggressive commercial policies towards small businesses and even towards local or rural banks. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner. in short, the need to adapt the rules on payment services to current needs is shared. so are many of the targets. however, it is doubtful whether the solutions identified will really create optimal conditions for consumers, greater competition in the sector and services adapted to current technological developments.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the house, i voted in favour of the supplementary report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on payment services in the internal market. i am convinced that the development of an integrated single market for secure electronic payments is essential in order to support the growth of the union economy. this phenomenon must take account of the primary value of consumer protection, which must obtain the highest possible system of protection of both transactions and transmitted data. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one. the commission notes that the us authorities have not provided any evidence that the us authorities have been able to establish that the us authorities have been able to establish that the us authorities have been able to establish that the us authorities have been able to establish that the us authorities have been able to establish that the us authorities have been able to establish that the us authorities have been able to establish that the us authorities have been able to establish that the us authorities have been able to establish that the us authorities have been able to establish that the us authorities have been able to establish that the us authorities have been able to establish that the us authorities have been able to establish that the us authorities have been able to establish that the us authorities have been able to establish that the us authorities have been able to establish that the us authorities have been able to establish that the us authorities have been able to establish that the us authorities have been able to establish that the us authorities have been able to establish that the us authorities have been able to establish that the us authorities have been able to establish that the us authorities have been able to establish that the us authorities have been able to establish that the us authorities have been able to establish that the us authorities have been able to establish that the us authorities have been able to establish that the us authorities. i am convinced that in order to increase the transparency of the operation of payment institutions, it is necessary to ensure that the list of entities providing payment services is easily accessible to the public.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, great progress has been made in the integration of the retail payments market in the european union, in particular with the adoption of the european union legislation on payments: the payment services directive regulates payment services in the european union by setting out the rights and obligations of both payment service providers and consumers. voted during the seventh legislature, the trilogue negotiations made the text less acceptable than the first version voted in april 2014. in the light of the above, i and my colleagues abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on payment services in the internal market. the proposal for a directive aims to encourage further development of the electronic payments market in the eu. it contains adaptations of the existing directive and imposes certain obligations on member states, although they enjoy a margin of discretion as regards transposition into the internal market. the text of the agreement also provides for a reduction in costs and improved security of payments.
in writing. ‒ i congratulate mr tajani on the excellent work he has done, especially in the last phase of the negotiation of this measure. i voted in favour because i too see the need for better regulation of the payment services market: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial system is not undermined by the financial crisis. i do not want companies in my area to miss out on a deal because their terminal is incompatible with the credit card of a potential customer, and so i applaud the emphasis on interoperability. whoever can, must be able to make the economy work!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this important report which will enable us to achieve important objectives in the field of payment services by extending the regulatory framework that is still in place. first, to reduce costs, improve payment security and facilitate the emergence of new players and innovative payment methods. another important aspect is the improvement of online services, with a great deal of attention to measures to respect personal data, privacy in general, and the fight against fraud.
in writing. ‒ the continued development of an integrated internal market for secure electronic payments is essential in order to support the growth of the union economy and to ensure that consumers, traders and businesses have choice and transparency in relation to payment services. the european parliament's resolution goes in that direction and will ensure that there will be greater legal clarity for operators and that the costs of online payment services will be reduced and that they will also become safer for consumers. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on payment services in the internal market represents an important step forward towards greater european integration in the services market. indeed, many sectors in this market today suffer from high fragmentation, such as in payments via card, internet and mobile device. greater consistency in this area is desirable in order to give greater protection to consumers, reducing the distortions in the implementation of non-integrated national policies. this text therefore succeeds in providing greater legal clarity by harmonising the legislative framework. greater transparency in this market means a more efficient market for payment system services and therefore greater choice for the consumer. once again, parliament has improved a commission text to increase consumer confidence. another positive aspect of this draft resolution is the attempt by the legislator to avoid abuses in the area of the right of establishment, in order to protect european players from unfair competitors.
in writing. ‒ i abstain on this report which deals with credit institutions and companies that provide 'electronic money' through credit cards. there are all too positive references to the development possibilities of electronic commerce and its potential contribution to growth.
in writing. ‒ this report will bring great benefits to both businesses and consumers. the market opens up, costs are reduced and fraud is fought. this is an extraordinary achievement, which demonstrates the excellent work done by the rapporteur, who has made possible a very broad parliamentary convergence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of updating the payment systems directive because i am firmly convinced of the need to make the online payments market less and less fragmented, to reduce costs and above all the risks of fraud. i therefore welcome with great interest the efforts of my colleagues at econ, who have generously worked to create the conditions for the creation and strengthening of a european electronic payment system. the importance of this new piece of legislation, which complements the so-called payment systems package, lies in the fact that the retail payments market in the eu is evolving as shown by some relevant data: 34% of europeans shop online and over 50% own a smartphone, which allows them to access the world of mobile payments. the agreement with the council is based on new rules aimed at: stimulate competition among payment service providers, increase information for citizens who are consumers, promote innovative and equally secure payment methods, taking into account technological innovations in recent years, recognise refund rights in the event of fraud, reduce costs related to payment services and, last but not least, pay greater attention to data processing.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of this proposal as it lays the foundations for a harmonised legal framework for the creation of an integrated payments market. the aim is to update and complement the current framework on payment services, ensuring a level playing field between all categories of payment service providers. this will allow for a wider choice and greater efficiency, transparency and security of retail payments.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the proposal for a directive on payment services in the internal market. the report encourages a european-wide growth of the electronic payments market, stressing the importance of having rules and procedures that are consistent across the european territory, thus also promoting legal certainty. these are important aspects to be taken into account and to be worked on with quality, in the light of the current situation at european level and also of the evolution of consumer needs, which must be adequately protected. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in respect of the use of electronic money.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to encourage the updating of the regulation of payment services. i am convinced that this report, which has been approved by a large majority of those present, represents a major step forward which will have a positive impact on the lives of european citizens. in addition to improving the security of online payment services, the processing of personal data has been given greater importance.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on payment services in the internal market. in recent years, security risks related to electronic payments have increased. this is due to the increasing technical complexity of electronic payments, the continuous increase in the number of electronic payments made worldwide and the emergence of new types of payment services. the security of payment services is a fundamental condition for the proper functioning of the payment services market. new rules should therefore be established in order to close the regulatory gaps, while ensuring greater legal clarity and a uniform application of the legislative framework across the union. operators already active on the market and new entrants should benefit from equal operating conditions, so as to allow for a wider market uptake of new means of payment and to ensure a high level of protection for consumers using such payment services. this should generate efficiencies in the payments system as a whole and result in greater transparency of payment services, while also strengthening consumer confidence in a harmonised payments market.
in writing. ‒ i would vote in favour as i believe that the implementation of the integrated single market for secure electronic payments is necessary in order to foster the growth of the eu economy and at the same time ensure the transparency of payment services to european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a directive aims to foster the further development of the electronic payments market throughout the european union. this measure was presented taking into account the fact that the digital economy is replacing traditional trade and that consumers are changing their payment habits. the new proposed directive contains a number of adaptations to the existing payment services directive and imposes certain new obligations on member states, leaving them a considerable margin of discretion as to how to transpose it into national law. the proposed principles, rules, procedures and standards must be consistent across the member states in order to achieve legal certainty and equal treatment of all market participants. i think the rapporteur has done a very good job and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of his proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal on payment services in the internal market because i believe that it is necessary to promote a greater and more harmonised development of electronic payments throughout the european union, which are currently still very expensive and too heterogeneous between member states. the digital economy is gradually replacing traditional exchanges and changing consumers' payment habits, which is why principles, rules, procedures and standards need to be consistent across member states in order to achieve legal certainty and equal treatment for all market participants. the text provides for cost reductions, improved security, such as reducing the risk of fraud and protection in the event of unauthorised payments, and new innovative payment methods.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, security risks related to electronic payments have increased. this is due to the increasing technical complexity of these new payment methods. this proposal will ensure that consumers, traders and businesses have a higher level of protection, greater choice and better conditions of transparency in relation to payment services. for this reason, i voted in favour of the directive which aims to develop a large european market for electronic payments, so that all users can enjoy greater advantages in the european internal market.
in writing. ‒ since the introduction of the payment services directive (psd) in 2002, the sector has seen a rapid growth in the number of electronic transactions and the emergence of revolutionary mobile payment services, which have challenged the rules of this market. the aim of the psd ii reform, which was voted by the previous legislature in april 2014, was therefore to increase competition and efficiency in the payment services sector, while ensuring consumer protection first and foremost. the negotiations undertaken by the present parliament during the trilogues with the council, however, were far from satisfactory. although controls on access to personal information have been strengthened, while preventing fraud and abuse, the new text includes some derogations and exemptions. the directive does not cover payment services by debit cards and, in part, the telecommunications sector. in addition, important consumer guarantees already approved by parliament, for example on the right of withdrawal, are being removed and several derogations have been introduced for certain traders to escape the rules of the directive. the compromise reached during these negotiations once again underlines the subordination of the european parliament to the particular interests of the member states. for these reasons i have abstained from voting on this report.
in writing. ‒ the payment services directive (psd) of 2002 regulates payment services in the eu by setting out the rights and obligations of both payment service providers and consumers. the aim of its revision (psd ii) is to increase competition and efficiency in the payments sector, ensuring a level playing field for consumer protection. during the negotiations with the council, progress was made both in the inclusion of additional payment service providers in the directive and in the area of access to information to prevent fraud and abuse. on the other hand, the negotiating team had to accept a downward compromise on certain points such as an exemption for the telecommunications sector, the right of free withdrawal for consumers guaranteed only after 6 months and finally an increase in the threshold from eur 1 million to eur 3 million in annual transactions as a necessary clause to derogate from the provisions of the directive. these derogations make the text much less acceptable than the first version voted by the european parliament and i therefore do not think it is fully acceptable.
in writing. ‒ the report analysing mortgage legislation and risky financial instruments in spain was drawn up after countless petitions by spanish citizens and families denouncing the situation in spain, the text is balanced and undoubtedly acceptable, so i intend to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is important that the union should take care of monitoring and punishing those banking institutions which engage in unfair banking practices. the crisis we are in today is the result of such practices, and it is vital that the institutions prevent and punish those who continue to follow them.
in writing. ‒ the vote on this resolution is absolutely positive. the text is a hard indictment of the spanish government and calls for european intervention in favour of the many families affected by the absurd situation of losing their homes and having to pay their mortgages at the same time. it seems that the committee on petitions has received a number of requests from citizens who are experiencing the shortcomings of spanish legislation on mortgages and financial instruments in a dramatic way. most of the petitions call for the introduction of the "datio in solutum" into spanish law (return of property to pay off debt), and have brought to light thousands of tragic personal cases of citizens who have been evicted from their homes or have lost some or all of their life savings, as well as their movable property and even that of their relatives. there are also many obstacles faced by these citizens in seeking to obtain accurate and essential information on financial instruments.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the legislation on mortgages and risky financial instruments in the eu in order to protect citizens as much as possible against abusive clauses and practices that have occurred in the spanish mortgage credit sector. in recent years, there have been numerous victims of financial fraud, which led several credit institutions to purchase risky financial instruments. the rules in the directive on the provision of investment services by companies and credit institutions need to be updated accordingly, as many consumers have had to overcome numerous obstacles before obtaining accurate information on the financial instruments they have purchased. a number of civil court judgments have found these practices to be abusive and the spanish parliament has also intervened to restructure mortgages on the main house. the conditions of mortgage credit agreements and debt cancellation procedures must therefore be harmonised in order to increase consumer protection in the union, and i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ in spain, civil society organisations continue to protest against the hundreds of thousands of evictions, the abusive clauses in mortgage credit contracts and the lack of protection for borrowers. during the first quarter of this year alone, 19,261 evictions occurred. since 2008, more than 397,954 people have been evicted in the country, and more than 100,000 families have lost their homes. in the light of the above, i am proud to vote in favour of a text which aims to protect the social rights of spaniards.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal under consideration on legislation on mortgages and risky financial instruments in the eu because the text of the resolution departs from the principles of the group of the european people's party.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because the numerous petitions received have brought to light thousands of tragic personal cases of citizens who have lost part or all of their life savings. in addition, over 100,000 families lost their homes. in addition, the impact of the crisis has made the situation worse for the affected households, who have to continue to repay their mortgage and the rising interest that comes with it, but in addition there are many cases where consumers were not properly informed by banks about the extent of the risks associated with the proposed investments and where banks did not even carry out an aptitude test to determine whether customers had adequate knowledge to understand the financial risks they were exposed to.
in writing. ‒ in europe, the lack of consumer protection in the delicate process of taking out mortgages or other banking instruments is sadly witnessed by the tragic personal cases of citizens who have lost their homes and their life savings. in spain in particular, there is a high number of petitions denouncing violations of fundamental rights and breaches of european legislation in terms of abusive clauses and practices in mortgage contracts or other banking instruments. i therefore fully support this proposal and stress the need for european regulation of the rules governing such contracts. the regulation of these rules will promote fair and uniform protection for each country of the european union and will be the starting point for a common fight against financial fraud. this will require ensuring, through appropriate consumer protection legislation, that citizens themselves are adequately informed of the real risks of proposed investments and that banks carry out suitability tests to determine whether customers have adequate knowledge to understand the financial risks to which they are exposed.
in writing. ‒ the report is the result of numerous petitions that have brought to light thousands of personal cases of citizens who have lost their life savings by investing in high-risk financial instruments. according to recent estimates, 95 families lose their homes every day in spain, and in greece the total value of mortgage defaults has exceeded 21 billion euros, putting 75,000 greek citizens at risk of losing their homes. despite these premises, the adoption of the report was extremely complicated. it is not intended to be and is not an indictment of governments - especially the spanish government - but the sensible response of institutions responsible for the welfare and protection of their citizens. that is the ultimate aim of the initiative and, frankly, i regret the ppe's vote against it. petitions are probably the most democratic and open tool available to european citizens. they take account of the needs and requirements of citizens, especially the most vulnerable. to deny them answers - by calculation or by official political defence - is to deny them a right. we are the parliament, we must always and in any case be the voice of the european citizens.
in writing. - i fully support this resolution. the text is in favour of the many spanish families who are faced with the absurd situation of losing their homes but having to pay their mortgages at the same time.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on mortgage law and risk finance in spain because i believe that the issue does not concern spain alone, although spanish citizens were the most affected by the crisis, firstly financial, which affected the eu from 2008 onwards, and particularly by the housing bubble which in spain further aggravated the conditions of thousands of families, because they were unable to pay their mortgage. the issue of mortgage loans is not only based on national legislation but also on important directives that the ep has co-legislated with the council, i.e. directive 2014/17/eu on mortgage credit, which is being implemented in the member states, and mifid2 on markets in financial instruments, which is also being amended and transposed in the member states. this body of legislation, however copious, has not prevented thousands of people from being evicted from their homes in the meantime because of boredom. i therefore fully share the call on the ec to promote a wide information campaign on financial products and to promote financial education, and i hope that the structural reform of the european banking sector will be completed quickly in order to stabilise the financial system.
in writing. i am aware of the situation in spain concerning the plight of some families who have lost their case, also as a result of the numerous petitions received. the economic crisis has affected the financial system of the various member states in different ways and, consequently, the community population as a whole. for these reasons, we have decided to relaunch european action for growth and jobs, primarily through the juncker plan. the spanish mortgage crisis certainly needs to be tackled decisively, but i am against the demagogic use of citizens' problems, especially if they are set up for electoral purposes.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because of the risky consequences of such a measure.
in writing. ‒ i cannot help but express my solidarity and concern for all those spanish citizens who have lost their life savings due to risky financial instruments and mortgage legislation. while i recognize our duty to protect the citizens of europe so that similar cases do not occur again, i did not consider that the motion for a resolution was dealt with exhaustively and therefore i would vote against it.
in writing. ‒ despite my solidarity and concern for all the spanish people who have lost their savings because of risky investments, i voted against this motion for a resolution because i consider it to be insufficiently comprehensive.
in writing. ‒ i voted strongly in favour of the resolution calling on the eu to assert its weight and its rules in favour of the thousands and thousands of spanish families who bought their homes with risky financial instruments fraudulently sold by banks and who now find themselves having to pay unsustainable mortgages and/or being evicted. the 'ease' with which banks sell complex financial instruments is, moreover, a problem that is certainly not unique to spain. difficulties in paying home loans and evictions are unfortunately common in all mediterranean countries that suffered the most from the financial crisis that began in 2008 and that received from the eu, instead of help to recover, only lethal doses of austerity. the eu as a whole - through austerity and not just - has helped to shift the consequences of the financial crisis onto the weaker classes, not onto the large economic and financial groups that caused it or onto the social strata that could best bear a policy of economic austerity and cutting services. the adoption of this resolution breaks through the hateful and harmful wall of these policies. a significant gap that we're committed to widening.
in writing. ‒ the text is acceptable in its main content, although there are ambiguities in the analysis of the eu's role in third country policy, i wanted to support this resolution condemning the use of the death penalty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i am strongly opposed to the use of the death penalty and i believe it is important that the european union, as the home and beacon of human rights, should take action to ensure that this barbaric practice continues to be applied in the world.
in writing. ‒ the death penalty is an instrument that violates the right to life, enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights, is ineffective as a deterrent and is irreparable in the event of miscarriages of justice. in addition, the poorest and most marginalized are the victims of capital punishment in most cases, as they lack the economic and cultural resources to cope with the costs and demanding procedures of a trial of this level. the death penalty also denies any possibility of rehabilitation and change of the person and affects the family members of the offender, who are not at fault for the actions committed by him. if we look at the data on its application over the last two decades, it is significant that the main promoters of capital punishment are non-democratic states, which apply it to intimidate minorities and target political or religious opponents, such as in saudi arabia, iran, china, syria, north korea and in many african dictatorships. the european union must therefore exert all its political weight to ensure that there is an international moratorium on the death penalty and its progressive abolition in all countries with which the eu has commercial or diplomatic relations.
in writing. - i vote against, i'm for the death penalty.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the death penalty because europe must reiterate its leading role in the fight for the abolition of the death penalty and for a moratorium on executions worldwide. unfortunately, in recent years we have seen a resurgence in executions, especially in countries where there has been no execution for several years or where a moratorium was in force. we must heed the holy father's call for the abolition of the death penalty, whether legal or illegal, in all its forms. europe has been a death penalty-free area since 1997, except in the case of belarus. much remains to be done, just as slavery has been abolished, so too must this cruel, inhuman and degrading punishment be abolished.
in writing. ‒ october 2nd was the world day against the death penalty. it is another sad day, also because we regret to note that this crime against humanity is still being committed in countries which are very civil and friendly to europe, such as the united states and japan. it is also in some of our strategic allies such as saudi arabia, egypt, pakistan, not to mention china and its 1,200 death sentences, which has always been seen as a major trading partner of the eu. what we could do if we used trade and economics as a tool to strengthen human rights and not the other way around. what i hope is that europe will once again be europe, that it will fight this shame and that it will pronounce the only just death sentence: that's against the death penalty itself.
in writing. - i voted for the death penalty resolution. its abolition in the world is one of the fundamental objectives of the union's foreign policy. to date, 160 un member states have abolished or do not practice the death penalty; however, in 2014, 2,466 people were sentenced to death and 607 executions took place worldwide, some by stoning and for drug-related crimes or homosexuality. in addition, some european citizens are awaiting execution in third countries for drug-related offences. the resolution also calls on the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security forces are fully involved in the fight against terrorism. it also called on the commission to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens were not subject to the death penalty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the abolition of the death penalty because i believe that this is a practice that should be eliminated worldwide as a matter of humanity and respect for each individual over the other. the death penalty is not, in my view, the solution to punishing and combating crime, even the most serious. i think it is good that more than 160 un member states, with different legal systems, cultures and traditions, have either abolished the death penalty or have never practiced it. it should not be forgotten that some countries such as chad and tunisia are considering reintroducing this practice. i intend to make a commitment, also on behalf of the european parliament, to bring this punishment to an immediate and definitive end, considering that the abolition of the death penalty is one of the main objectives of the eu's human rights policy.
in writing. - i signed and voted for this important resolution on the death penalty. i share the condemnation of all executions, wherever they take place, and in particular those which concern minors and those which are carried out in a brutal manner, such as the stoning of women. i also support the abolition of the death penalty and the need to introduce a moratorium as a first step towards its abolition. i welcome the abolition of the death penalty in many states of the usa and i join the appeal of the pope a week ago, on the occasion of his visit to the american congress, "abolition of the death penalty!". it is hoped that the member states, the commission and the european institutions will all work, each in his or her own sphere of competence, to achieve this goal on a world scale as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the death penalty is a practice contrary to the fundamental values of the european union, but it is still practised in many parts of the world. i therefore believe that the european union must export its fundamental principles and values to other regions of the world in order to achieve the total abolition of the death penalty. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution calling on the european external action service and the member states to continue the fight against the use of the death penalty and to support the introduction of a moratorium as a step towards its abolition, to urge those countries which still practice it to respect international minimum standards and to publish clear and accurate data on the number of convictions and executions.
in writing. ‒ on 30 november 1786, the grand duchy of tuscany was the first state in the world to abolish the death penalty. more than 200 years later, on 18 december 2007, the united nations general assembly adopted the resolution on a universal moratorium on the death penalty, thanks in part to the strong and convinced support of the italian government. the protection of the right to life and the prohibition on the death penalty are now enshrined in article 2 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. as a european citizen born in tuscany, i have therefore strongly supported this resolution which sets out the european union's concrete commitment to the total abolition of the death penalty. to achieve this, i believe that the union must step up its activities and projects in third countries, with particular attention to neighbouring countries, including through institutional, financial and political support to un agencies and civil society organisations which promote this objective in the framework of the instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr). i therefore welcome the text of the resolution which reaffirms once again the leading role of the union and its member states in the fight for the complete abolition of this barbaric practice.
in writing. ‒ the opposition to the death penalty is rightly reaffirmed.
in writing. i fully support the question put to the commission by mr valenciano on the death penalty because it gives us all the opportunity to reflect once again, on 10 october, the 13th world day against the death penalty, on how unacceptable and distant from the human soul and the european spirit is a method of punishment which promotes the culture of death and the violation of the right to life as a response to violence. human life is sacred, and it is the duty of politics to protect the good and respect of the person. whatever the crime committed, "a just and necessary punishment must never exclude the dimension of hope and the goal of rehabilitation", as pope francis himself reminded us all just a few months ago in the strasbourg hall, calling for the abolition of the death penalty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the death penalty because i am firmly convinced that justice can never be achieved through murder. the abolition of the death penalty worldwide is one of the main objectives of the eu's human rights policy. i therefore believe it is essential that the eu should commit itself to the moratorium on the death penalty with a view to its abolition, since only the abolition of this extreme measure can contribute to the strengthening of human dignity. the death penalty does not deter crime but incites social resistance and struggle against the government and justice system. unfortunately, to date, 33 countries in the world still apply the death penalty for drug-related offences, with about 1,000 executions a year, and eight countries provide for the same penalty for homosexuality, all in violation of basic rights, including the right to a fair trial. finally, i would like to emphasize the fundamental premise of sanctions/detention, which should be that of the re-education and reintegration of convicted persons into society and not death by the state. this also disrupts the generations because the authorities respond to violence with equal violence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this decision, which strongly condemns the use of the death penalty and supports the decree for a moratorium with a view to its total abolition.
in writing. ‒ "if we want life, we give life", so pope francis speaks of the "responsibility to protect and defend human life at every stage of its development". my vote reaffirms the sad timeliness of those words. in 2015, death sentences and executions continue at an alarming rate. the abolition of the death penalty worldwide is one of the main objectives of european human rights policy. the world day against the death penalty was intended to remind that its application in the case of drug-related offences is contrary to international law and standards. the death sentences do not discourage drug trafficking or abuse, and countries that retain the death penalty should be encouraged to introduce alternatives that focus on drug prevention and harm reduction programmes. deeply concerned about the application of the death penalty to minors and disadvantaged persons, persons with mental disabilities, persons belonging to national or cultural minorities; to suppress opposition; for reasons of religious belief; for homosexuality or adultery; the european parliament called for the immediate and definitive cessation of this practice.
in writing. ‒ in the strong conviction that the death penalty must be abolished once and for all and that the introduction of a moratorium can help achieve this objective, i would vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the death penalty because i am in favour of abolishing capital punishment, as it violates the right to life recognised by the universal declaration of human rights.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution on the death penalty, which comes just before the world day against the death penalty on 10 october 2015 and aims to raise awareness this year of the application of the death penalty for drug-related offences. although according to the united nations high commissioner for human rights, more than 160 un member states have abolished the death penalty or do not practice it, recent but partial data shows that nearly 2,500 people in 55 countries were sentenced to death in 2014, an increase of almost 23% compared to 2013. in this resolution we call in particular on the european external action service and the member states to continue the fight against the use of the death penalty and to strongly support the introduction of a moratorium in all international fora as a step towards its abolition. only by continuing to press globally for this, by strongly urging countries that still practice the death penalty to respect international minimum standards and by providing more transparent information, will it be possible to move gradually towards the abolition of the death penalty, which is a key objective of the eu as an actor on the international scene.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution against the death penalty because it is an initiative which i have taken in parallel with the droi committee, implementing the text in particular with contents against the practice of stoning. the condemnation of this atrocious torture, which is still present in countries such as iran, sudan, pakistan, afghanistan, nigeria, saudi arabia, the united arab emirates and yemen, is in fact the result of a long process that began thanks to the reports of some associations of iranian exiles and continued through the organization of events both on the territory and in the european parliament that helped to raise awareness of civil society and other parliamentarians on the subject. the death penalty by stoning is one of the most egregious violations of international human rights law and particularly affects women who, without the possibility of defending themselves in court, are stoned to death, especially for adultery or even for reporting a rape. a cruel, inhuman and degrading punishment that countries are now called upon to abolish by law.
in writing. ‒ i share the concerns raised in the resolution recalling the environmental disaster caused by the industrial accident in ajka, hungary in 2010. i believe that member states should do more to close the regulatory gaps in the application of eu law and international environmental conventions in order to protect our citizens, our territories and prevent future similar disasters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is important that the union learns from its mistakes to avoid similar industrial disasters in the future.
in writing. - i vote for it. the resolution refers to this serious environmental disaster in hungary five years ago. it is concerned that almost no lessons have been learned by the member states in these five years, as the weak implementation of eu rules and relevant international conventions, as well as deficiencies in inspections, continue. the member states are therefore called upon to do more to fill these gaps.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 'red mud disaster', an environmental incident which occurred in the town of ajka in hungary five years ago, caused by the rupture of a collection basin, with the release of approximately one million cubic metres of high-alkaline red mud, which flooded several villages, killing ten people, injuring nearly 150, polluting vast areas of land and wreaking havoc on the local flora and fauna. although the rapid and effective intervention of the national authorities and the activation of the eu civil protection mechanism by hungary effectively mitigated the damage caused to the territory, the incident highlighted the poor implementation of community rules. it is therefore necessary to strengthen national environmental inspection bodies, in particular by ensuring their independence and by providing them with adequate resources to enable transparent and cyclical inspections of industrial sites. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the text in order to give greater weight to the prevention of environmental disasters and to reach a legislative proposal on environmental inspections as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it asks the commission to provide a number of guarantees which i consider essential, such as: increased focus on research and development for the prevention and treatment of hazardous waste; strengthen national environmental inspection bodies to better carry out industrial site inspections; present a legislative proposal on environmental inspections and implement a financial guarantee system mandatory for all industrial sites and further develop the idea of an eu-wide mechanism for industrial disaster risk sharing, financed by a harmonised insurance premium at scale. the commission and the member states are also called upon to ensure the transparency of the financial aspects of the reparation of damage caused by environmental disasters, including financial compensation for victims. finally, i welcome the fact that our amendment on access to justice has been adopted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the lessons learned from the red mud disaster, five years after the accident in hungary. on 4 october 2012, the collapse of a sewage tank resulted in the release of red sludge with a high alkaline content, considered hazardous waste, resulting in the death of 10 people and the injury of almost 150 as well as massive damage to four natura 2000 sites. however, the environmental liability directive has not been properly transposed and implemented at community level. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. however, the red mud disaster is linked to the failure to implement community legislation. the report calls on the commission and the member states to step up their efforts to ensure the proper application of eu legislation and reiterates its call on the commission to submit a legislative proposal on environmental inspections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i remember that it was the worst industrial disaster ever in hungary, causing the death of 10 people, the injury of almost 150 and the contamination of vast areas of land. given the risk that red sludge may have been misclassified as non-hazardous waste in other member states in the past and therefore released, i call on the member states to ensure that the necessary inspections are carried out, which are essential to protect european citizens. finally, in accordance with the proposal, i believe that greater emphasis should be placed on disaster prevention by drawing up guidelines for the stress testing of mines with large waste water settling basins.
in writing. ‒ an analysis of the situation in hungary, five years after the ecological disaster, has shown that the european union has not been effectively engaged in strengthening european legislation and implementing environmental and health protection rules. the environmental liability directive (2004/35/ec) has been poorly implemented in the member states and many obstacles remain to be overcome, such as the lack of inspections in basins containing high alkaline substances, the control of mining activities and the use of measures for the disposal of industrial waste. i hope that this motion for a resolution on the protection of the environment from risks will help to raise awareness among european businesses and citizens of their responsibility towards the environment, thus strengthening the community principle of 'the polluter pays'. in order to improve european legislation in this field, national legislation and control measures should be harmonised. member states should strengthen national inspection mechanisms to ensure transparent, regular and systematic checks on industrial sites, while avoiding creating additional administrative burdens for undertakings.
in writing. ‒ in 2010, the red mud disaster in hungary threatened the lives of many people, caused casualties and injuries and endangered the health of the environment and in particular wildlife and drinking water sources. this is the disaster at the ajka aluminium plant, which spilled at least one million cubic metres of red mud from open-air tanks over an area of at least 40 km2. the resolution calls on the commission and the member states to continue and improve research on the prevention and treatment of hazardous waste in order to avoid future environmental disasters. it aims to implement a bill that can guarantee environmental inspections and that implements a system of mandatory financial guarantee and economic transparency on environmental and human compensation. i am in favour of this because of the principles of the european union's environmental policy.
in writing. ‒ although the red mud disaster is linked to poor implementation of eu legislation, inspection failures and legislative gaps, the relevant eu legislation and international conventions continue to be not applied correctly and deficiencies in inspections at national level persist. i voted in favour of the resolution because it calls on the commission and the member states to step up their efforts to ensure full implementation of eu legislation and all international conventions on the environmentally sound management of red mud and hazardous waste in general. i also support the idea of developing a european mechanism for sharing the risks of industrial disasters.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report which calls on member states to do more to close the regulatory gaps, bearing in mind the hungarian case mentioned.
in writing. on 4 october 2010, a collection basin in hungary ruptured, releasing approximately 1 million cubic metres of red mud with a high alkaline content, which spilled over several villages, killing 10 people and injuring around 150. large areas of land were polluted and the accident highlighted the waste disposal problems of the mining industry. many things must be changed if we are to prevent such disasters from happening again in the future. member states need to strengthen their environmental inspections and monitoring regimes, along with further development in the prevention and treatment of hazardous waste. we have already asked in 2008 for a legislative proposal on environmental controls and therefore we can only repeat the same request, with greater force. the directive on the management of waste from extractive industries must be implemented in a timely manner and we have therefore asked the european commission to verify its full implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the lessons learned from the red mud disaster five years after the accident in hungary. on 4 october 2010, a very serious accident occurred, considered the worst such disaster ever to hit hungary. the collapse of an aluminium plant led to the release of over 1 million cubic metres of toxic red mud, which killed 10 people and injured more than 115, flooded two villages, damaged local crops for years, and killed the fauna and flora of the affected waterways. in view of this catastrophe, it is of the utmost importance that all member states should endeavour to classify such waste as red mud as hazardous if it is present on their territory. a real and strong commitment to prevention is needed, with strict environmental inspection standards. cooperation and solidarity at eu level in the event of environmental and industrial disasters is essential, in line with the principle of preventive action and the polluter pays principle in environmental matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the conclusions and lessons learned from the red mud disaster five years ago when there was the disastrous accident in hungary.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the fact that five years after the hungarian disaster, inspections are still inefficient and european legislation is not yet fully implemented, i believe that further emphasis should be placed on disaster prevention, especially through the implementation of actions to ensure that inspections are carried out correctly and regularly. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the lessons learned from the red mud disaster five years after the accident in hungary, because it is necessary for the european union to take action to find concrete solutions in order to prevent the occurrence of events similar to what happened.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the content of the resolution under vote, so i have spoken against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i firmly believe that it is essential that the union engages fully in developing its action plan on gender equality and women's empowerment in development cooperation. gender equality and empowerment in development are objectives that must be pursued for both ethical and economic reasons. in a continent dominated by women, it is essential that women receive the same pay as their male colleagues and that they enjoy the rights necessary to enable them not to have to choose between a career and a family.
in writing. ‒ it reiterates that women and girls must not be discriminated against in all areas (work, education, politics, etc.) and calls for the eu to play an active role in ensuring that this happens. it is noted that the gap (gender equality action plan) must address the situation of lgbti persons in third countries and include the promotion and protection of the rights of lgbti persons. it also calls for specific eu actions to be developed to strengthen the rights of different groups of women, with particular attention to young people, migrants, women living with hiv, lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (lgbti) people and people with disabilities. it is believed that gender equality and women's empowerment should be at the heart of the activities of the eu institutions. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour because the eu action plan on gender equality and women's empowerment in development cooperation has allowed for the intensification and better coordination of the efforts of the eu and its member states on gender equality and women's empowerment (gewe). the evaluations of this plan indicate a number of important achievements, but also weaknesses in its implementation. the commission should undertake to use the 2017 mid-term review of the development cooperation instrument (dci) and the 11th edf performance review to assess the impact of programmes funded by the dci and the edf on women and girls and to make the necessary reallocations, so as to address the shortcomings identified in the implementation of the gap and the post-2015 sustainable development goals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the new cap for 2016-2020 (gap 2) as the text aims to address the implementation shortcomings shown by the previous gap. in particular, emphasis was placed on 'institutional cultural change' to enhance capacity, advice and training on gender equality and women's empowerment, with a stronger focus on gender-sensitive information, monitoring and accountability and on a performance-based profile. three priority areas will be proposed: ensuring the physical and psychological integrity of women and girls; promoting women's economic rights; to give women and girls a greater voice and to strengthen their participation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the renewal of the eu action plan on gender equality and women's empowerment in development cooperation. the eu is committed to promoting gender equality and ensuring that gender mainstreaming is integrated into all its actions. two of the millennium development goals (mdgs), namely the promotion of gender equality (mdg 3) and the improvement of maternal health (mdg 5), directly concern women's rights. worldwide, some 62 million girls are denied access to education, and about one in three women is at risk of physical and sexual violence. in addition, according to the oecd, investment is not sufficient to achieve the goal of gender equality. the resolution calls on the commission and the european external action service (eeas) to radically change eu action on women's empowerment and gender equality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the renewal of the action plan because i believe it is essential to intensify and improve coordination on gender equality and women's empowerment, and this improvement will certainly lead to even greater results. i understand that the new gap (gender action plan) for 2016-2020 intends to address some issues in three priority areas, namely ensuring the physical and psychological integrity of women and girls, promoting women's economic rights and giving women and girls a greater voice by strengthening their participation, issues that i believe are necessary and of utmost importance. finally, i agree with the institutional cultural change presented in the text which is aimed at strengthening capacity, advice and training on gender equality and women's empowerment by increasing the focus on information. i'm sure this proposed change will lead to greater visibility and greater resources.
in writing. ‒ i am fully in favour of the renewal of the eu action plan on gender equality and women's empowerment in development cooperation (gap) because, although it has been instrumental in stepping up and improving the coordination of the eu and its member states' efforts on gender equality and has achieved important results, its implementation still has some weaknesses. i therefore believe that this project needs to be improved, strengthened and thereby ensured that it is gender sensitive and addresses the root causes of inequalities. the completion of the gap project will ensure the physical and psychological integrity of women and girls, promote women's economic rights and give women a greater voice by strengthening their participation.
in writing. ‒ progress in the 20 years of implementation of the beijing platform has been slow and uneven, with no country in the world having fully closed the gender gap. alarming data persist, affecting only the most vulnerable: one in three women is at risk of physical and sexual violence, 62 million girls worldwide are out of school, 14 million girls are forced into marriage every year. as europe we cannot remain indifferent, we have an obligation to defend the right of every individual to have full control of himself, without suffering any discrimination, coercion or violence. the development policies, the neighbourhood and enlargement policies, are instruments which we must use to bring about a change in the partner countries and to put pressure on the governments of third countries in the regions where discrimination is most widespread. in addition, the extreme vulnerability of migrant women and their need for specific protection is evident. this is why bold and targeted action is urgently needed, which, alongside the necessary measures for the reception of refugees, ensures respect for and protection of the most vulnerable and exposed.
in writing. ‒ as always, the femm committee uses the pretext of the title of the report and uses women as a political tool in order to include lgbti issues and more.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the renewal of the eu action plan on gender equality and women's empowerment in development cooperation, because i believe that gender equality and women's empowerment are essential conditions for achieving the post-2015 sustainable development goals in the developing countries and indispensable prerequisites for achieving full and gender equality. i believe that these objectives should be pursued regardless of their benefits for development and growth, because gender-based violence is a violation of human rights. the new gap2 needs to be developed on different perspectives and lines than the previous action plan, which revealed the clear need for a change of approach and a greater financial commitment from the eu. i share the greatest efforts and resources to prevent violence against women and any other discriminatory practice that deprives them of their freedom and dignity as human beings, such as female mutilation, forced sterilization, domestic violence and rape, which are painful and still all too frequent phenomena in today's society and particularly for migrant women. finally, i would like to see a more active role for women in entrepreneurship, the social economy and microfinance.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the motion for a resolution on the renewal of the european union action plan on gender equality and women's empowerment in development cooperation. the achievement of gender equality and women's empowerment has been so slow that no country in the world has ever fully closed the gender gap. the european union has always been strongly committed to promoting gender equality integrity in all its actions, and has been a staunch defender of women's empowerment in development cooperation. gender equality and the empowerment of women are essential prerequisites for achieving the post-2015 sustainable development goals and the human rights goals.
in writing. ‒ i share the content of the resolution in question and therefore voted in favour. i believe it is important that the union should work towards developing the action plan on gender equality and women's empowerment in development cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the renewal of the eu action plan on gender equality and women's empowerment in development cooperation (gap 2) as i believe that the conclusions of the evaluation of the first gender equality action plan (gap 1) clearly show the need for a radical change in eu action on gender equality and women's empowerment, as well as a renewed political commitment by the european external action service and the commission to improve the results achieved. furthermore, i believe that gap 2 should focus on all aspects of eu external policy - development cooperation, humanitarian aid, trade, human rights and foreign affairs, migration and asylum - in line with the principle of policy coherence for development, and be applied equally to developing countries and those affected by neighbourhood and enlargement policy. finally, i argue that gender equality and women's empowerment should be at the heart of the activities of the eu institutions, with clear management responsibilities both at central administration and in the eu delegations.
in writing. ‒ while i consider gender equality and women's empowerment to be fundamental human rights and essential conditions for achieving sustainable development, i would vote against. i do not agree with some of the points made in the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the renewal of the european union action plan on gender equality and women's empowerment in development cooperation because i believe that women's empowerment must be promoted and guaranteed and that all forms of discrimination against women must be combated.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution. the plan aims to intensify and improve the coordination of the eu and its member states' efforts on gender equality and women's empowerment (gewe). i am in favour of renewal because it aims to promote a cultural change in favour of women's empowerment, especially in the areas of women's physical and psychological integrity, to promote their economic rights and to strengthen their participation. the plan also promotes the elimination of all forms of violence against women and girls by calling for a comprehensive eu approach to this area: therefore, to implement more efforts and resources to eliminate and prevent all discriminatory practices, all forms of violence (such as genital mutilation, forced sterilization or pregnancy, domestic violence and marital rape) with a particular focus on young people, migrants, hiv patients, lesbians and gays. the plan also addresses health and recognizes it as a human right and as such promotes universal access to care and coverage for women, with emphasis also on health education, family planning, prenatal care and sexual and reproductive health.
in writing. ‒ gender equality is an essential principle that must be guaranteed not only in abstract terms, but must be defended and above all applied concretely in the socioeconomic context. unfortunately, discrimination between women and men is still observed in the labour market today. the gender pay gap, the pension gap are just some of the indicators that reveal an unequal and disadvantaged situation for women, who generally also bear greater family burdens. the social and welfare policies of the member states have so far not been sufficient, as highlighted in her report by my colleague anna záborská, especially with regard to the application of directive 2006/54/ec on the principle of equal opportunities. i voted in favour because the existing regulatory instruments need to be adjusted to ensure a fairer environment in europe. only through effective equality of treatment can we think of a system which does not in fact penalize women's professional advancement.
in writing. ‒ although there are some points in the zaborska report which can be shared, i found many contradictory and unbalanced elements, which is why i did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ gender role stereotypes still affect the position of women in families, in academic and university careers and in professional careers, creating the most tangible consequences of the considerable gender pay gap and the strong discrimination related to maternity, pregnancy and other forms of leave. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the picture we get is alarming: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of women (2014-2020) and the european year of women's rights (2014-2020). i voted strongly in favour of the report by mrs zaborska on the need to update the current directive 2006/54/ec. a stronger system of protection, control and safeguards such as that outlined in the report would have a positive effect on european economic growth and would rigorously review the anomalies in the system.
in writing. ‒ there can be no true gender equality if there is no equality of pay. direct or indirect discrimination in the workplace arises from the wage gap and the different opportunities for advancement that arise - all too often - from the prejudice of some employers who believe that women are less productive than their male colleagues. despite the fact that equal treatment between men and women has been clearly enshrined in all european union law since 1957 (the treaty of rome), the gender pay gap has remained almost stationary at around 17%. it is necessary to update directive 2006/54/ec to adapt it to today's socio-economic dynamics and to equip the commission with the means to require member states to make a real commitment to combating pay and gender discrimination in order to uphold the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment for all workers in the same work or work of equal value. the legislation also needs to be amended to create effective conditions for balancing work and private life, recognising the important role played by women in parental care: a real unpaid work that we have to take into account.
in writing. - i vote against it. it reiterates that women and girls must not be discriminated against in all areas (work, education, politics, etc.) and calls for the eu to play an active role in ensuring that this happens. it is noted that the gap (gender equality action plan) must address the situation of lgbti persons in third countries and include the promotion and protection of lgbti rights. it also calls for specific eu actions to be developed to strengthen the rights of different groups of women, with particular attention to young people, migrants, women living with hiv, lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (lgbti) people and people with disabilities. it is believed that gender equality and women's empowerment should be at the heart of the activities of the eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the application of directive 2006/54/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 5 july 2006 on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation, because women in europe are still under-represented in decision-making processes, both in national parliaments and governments and on the boards of large companies. so they've made some headway in all areas, but it's going to take 81 years to close the job gap between men and women. the union will no longer be able to simply denounce the situation, but will have to ensure that european legislation on gender equality is actually respected. it is right to ensure equal opportunities and equal rights for men and women.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, there are still many cases of underground work and forced women to work in the dark, with negative repercussions also as regards contributions and welfare rights. in view of the stagnation of the gender pay gap, which has remained almost stable over the last decade, from 17,5% in 2008 to 16,4% in 2012, the rapporteur is inclined to conclude that the current directive 2006/54/ec has reached its limits and should therefore be updated. although i found the report to be positive overall, i wanted to abstain on the final vote because a key vote was taken on the sanctions against companies.
in writing. ‒ there is still an unjustified gender pay gap of around 15% in the european union. i wonder how many more reports, how many more parliamentary debates will be needed before equal treatment is fully and completely implemented. yet this is a principle which has been present in the treaties since 1957 and from which several directives have been derived. i congratulate the rapporteur on her work and her report which highlights, if need be, all the areas where inequalities persist. i certainly support the recommendations to the commission and i also support the call for a new directive to deal more broadly with the subject. i wonder whether we are facing a regulatory deficit or whether the member states are not lacking in the will to strictly control the application and implementation of existing european legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mrs anna zàborskà on the equal treatment of women in employment and occupation. i agree with the rapporteur that it is regrettable that the law still fails to address the disparities between men and women. i also find the pension and social disparities, which are rightly emphasized in this report, unacceptable. men and women, although they have objective physical and psychological differences, must be placed on an equal footing in the field of work and employment.
in writing. ‒ it is important to recognise that the non-binding strategies and measures that have been put in place so far to promote equality between men and women, even if they are motivated by noble intentions, have been ineffective. the difficulties for women to emerge in the labour market are enormous, ranging from pay disparity to having to shoulder all family burdens, or having a poor career prospect and thus excluding the possibility of accessing top positions. however, despite many important steps in this report, i cannot but express my opposition to the introduction of penalties for failure to respect the principle of equal treatment, which would also exclude companies which do not comply with their responsibilities from public procurement of financial goods and services with european financial resources, and to the reversal of the burden of proof, or to the introduction of pay audits for publicly listed companies. such penalties would only increase the administrative burden on firms, especially smes. i would also like to stress that there are some concepts which i do not think can be shared, and i therefore stress the need to make a point about the priorities of the european political agenda.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of updating directive 2006/54/ec in view of the problems still existing with regard to inequalities between men and women, both in terms of representation and in terms of pay and positions in the workforce.
in writing. ‒ if you are a woman, you work as much as a man and earn about 16% less than a man. equal treatment is a principle which has been in the european system since 1957, but the data tell us that we are still far from its full implementation. maybe we're not working on it enough. we know that a directive does not eliminate stereotypes and prejudices, but we must forcefully ask the commission for a new directive and for member states to apply it more strictly. on the other hand, if individual choices can make it more or less justifiable for women to have access to careers and, therefore, this aspect is less normal (unless quotas are introduced, which i find useless and harmful), the economic disparity in treatment is only an anti-historical legacy. there are no rational reasons to justify the persistence of the gender pay gap after almost 70 years. it's a gap that needs to be closed immediately.
in writing. ‒ the report on the application of directive 2006/54/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 5 july 2006 on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation addresses one of the main injustices of our time in europe. we are still witnessing these anomalies on our continent today. first of all, there is the constant difference between the employment rate of men and women (around ten percentage points for 2013). the gender pay gap has a very strong impact on the living conditions of these women and their families. in addition, there is a shift in wage bargaining from the collective to the individual level: this reduces the ability to understand the complexity of the phenomenon and harms those workers who have less bargaining power, as they are in a less favourable position. for this reason, it is necessary to work through a reshaping of wage policies, in order to guarantee workers more contractual power and at the same time guarantee a secure occupational integration for the most disadvantaged women workers through emancipatory policies.
in writing. ‒ as always, the femm committee uses the pretext of the title of the report and uses women as a political tool in order to include lgbti issues and more.
in writing. the treaty on the functioning of the eu lists equality between men and women as one of its principles. the report on equal opportunities in employment and occupation, on the other hand, shows how unfortunately direct and indirect discrimination between men and women is still prevalent in our society, especially in the professional field. a gender pay gap currently at around 16% and consequently a pension treatment gap of around 39%, inadequate services and family support, lack of guarantees of return to work after pregnancy, discrimination and risks of social and occupational segregation: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not subject to the same conditions as those in the member states. i therefore hope that, by supporting the report, europe will campaign for greater participation of women in the labour market, introduce as soon as possible measures for pay transparency and make every effort to prevent prejudice to women's free and democratic access to professional life, without limits to ambition, role or pay.
in writing. ‒ i fully supported the ep resolution on the application of directive 2006/54/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation, because it has since its transposition into the national law of the member states demonstrated its inadequacy to reduce the gender pay gap. i also hope that the directive will be revised to ensure that there is effective equality between men and women in terms of pay and pensions. the employment and wage gap that has been observed recently is attributable solely to the recent decline in employment rates in the eu. i therefore believe that the time has come to give full value to the work of caring for children, elderly and disabled members of the family, which is mainly the responsibility of women. i also hope that the rights of women in maternity will be fully protected by measures to prevent unfair dismissal during pregnancy and by measures to help women workers. in addition, it is essential to include in all national legislation the prohibition of discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity, introducing explicit protection for transgender people. finally, their participation in political and economic decision-making processes must be promoted, in accordance with a quota system.
in writing. ‒ equal treatment for men and women in employment and occupation is certainly one of the european union's priority objectives. equal treatment is also to be considered as a family issue as the welfare of many families depends on the wages of women, as they bear the main responsibility for providing for their families as the only sources of income. the development of women's potential and skills is therefore essential to closing the gender pay gap and achieving the objectives of the european union's growth strategy. reducing the pay gap is indeed an eu priority, as women in the union's economies earn on average about 16.4% less than men, and this figure has remained almost unchanged in recent years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the zaborska resolution because i am convinced that equal opportunities for men and women are a fundamental point for european socioeconomic development policies. this document, which has been approved, makes further progress, but now we need more momentum, not only to combat the wage gap, but also indirect discrimination. strengthening the role of women and allowing equal treatment that closes the contractual gap are also growth and freedom strategies for the european union. i hope, therefore, that the commission will finally come forward with a comprehensive and decisive directive on this subject, so as to complete a comprehensive legislation in favour of equality between the sexes, one of the founding principles of european principles.
in writing. ‒ although the eu has made considerable progress on gender equality in recent decades, in particular through legislation and the transversal nature of gender equality in eu policies, disparities between men and women, particularly in the world of work, are still present. despite women representing 60% of graduates in the eu, employment rates are generally lower among women than men and, in general, they are underrepresented in managerial positions. women are generally paid about 16% less than men, and this pay gap, which has remained almost unchanged over the past decade, is reflected in a lower level of pension earned. the revision of directive 2006/54/ec represents a crucial challenge for all eu member states to produce a major boost to equal pay and to offer women practical solutions that would help them better balance work and family responsibilities. i therefore believe that the commission should closely monitor the implementation of the country-specific recommendations and take prompt action against member states which do not comply with the provisions of the directive.
in writing. ‒ while recognising the importance of gender equality in employment and taking into account that the gender pay gap has changed very little, i would vote against as i do not fully agree with the way the issue has been dealt with.
in writing. ‒ this report assesses the application of directive 2006/54/ec modernising community provisions on equal treatment for men and women in employment. the rapporteur, mrs zaborska, stresses that although member states have generally brought their national laws into line with the requirements of the european union, the application of the directive has not proved sufficient to close the gender pay gap once and for all. the commission has therefore proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment. however, there are some passages in this report concerning company law references are made, for example, to a system of sanctions for companies for failure to respect the principle of equal treatment and some references to the recognition of lgbt rights such as, for example, the legal recognition of gender reassignment which i find to be incompatible. i therefore decided to vote against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ while i am in favour of equal opportunities and equal treatment for men and women in employment and occupation, i do not find the usual reference to 'recognition of gender change' in a report on equal treatment in employment and occupation to be necessary; i also disagree with the request to reverse the burden of proof on the employer. the idea behind the resolution is excellent but the wording of the text is not.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the non-legislative resolutions on equal treatment between men and women in matters of employment because it is important and proper to point out that the pay gap not only persists but is even growing, despite the existence of an eu directive on the subject from 2006. according to eurostat 2013 data, the gender pay and pension gap averages 16.4% and 38.5% across the eu, with significant differences between countries. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers against discrimination based on sex, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers against discrimination based on sex. among the proposals in the resolution i would particularly point to the possibility of imposing sanctions at european level in the event of non-compliance by employers who do not respect equal pay. in fact, while some virtuous states have transposed the directive, in many other countries, including, unfortunately, italy, national systems still have to make much progress towards equal pay.
in writing. ‒ we, 5 stars, welcome this report which aims to promote equal treatment and opportunities for men and women in companies and in the world of work in general. the employment situation is worrying and italy is a sad example of this: the gender gap in employment reaches 20% in our country. the same situation for the gender pay gap is still very, very high (16.4% in 2012). we must do more and create more equal opportunities for women and men, creating the right conditions where women, and indirectly the whole family, can reconcile family and work life. so yes to better social and welfare policies. however, we voted against those amendments which sought to introduce sanctions and bureaucratic practices, which are already unacceptable for companies and employers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we socialists share the president's words on turkey: solidarity, loud and clear. mr smith, the council meeting tomorrow should have two answers. the first: implementing emergency measures on refugees, the relocation triangle, "hot spot" -- we don't even like the word, which sounds like the title of a hard-hitting magazine, but we have to do them -- and repatriate. italy was the first hot spot, it also gave money to the fund together with germany, they all do it. the famous greed of governments should give way to such a serious emergency as the refugee crisis. the second answer that the council of ministers should give tomorrow is to go to the roots, to the causes, because, as mr juncker has said, this is a structural phenomenon and not a cyclical one. it's not something that can be solved in three months, but it takes years, and so it takes a comprehensive strategy. what are the elements of this strategy? one is syria, which is one of the main causes of the flow. the european commission, juncker and mogherini are working towards a common european position on syria, and i support that position. it is not the time for military action, we must support the efforts of the un and promote a political transition and the defeat of isis, daesh. iran is an essential component of a strategy for stabilizing the mediterranean. iran can and must also help us on the syrian issue. as for turkey, the more demanding and rigorous we are in demanding respect for human rights, the more demanding and rigorous we are in demanding the fight against terrorism, the more intransigent and rigorous we are in demanding that elections be held in a transparent and fair manner, the more we will have the strength to tell the truth, namely that turkey is an essential partner of the european union, a candidate for membership, a partner to whom not only a financial message, but also a political message must be addressed. turkey is a political partner and we must tell the turkish people that we are opening the visa liberalization process. finally, as regards africa, there will be the valletta summit. we must strengthen the dialogue with african states, we must work on the return of migrants, we must also open the file on regular migration - thank you, president juncker, for the proposal you announced today on regular immigration - and i think that africa must be the political priority of the european union. if we do these things, which are concrete, not rhetorical and demagogic, we can not worry too much about the caricature of europe in some media, or about the anti-european offensive that will inflate like a blood pressure monitor. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is "blue card". a few months ago, thanks also to the important role of our federica mogherini, there was an important agreement that prevents a considerable risk for humanity. if we can discuss that with iran, i do not see why we cannot discuss the geopolitical strategy of the mediterranean, knowing that iran has a weight, a consistency and an important influence in that region. syria is an emergency for us, we have to deal with it. i believe that we must not confront it with the use of weapons, but we must confront it by supporting the action of the un, we must confront it knowing that there is a fundamental enemy which is isis, the so-called isis, and that there is a current situation that must, with a useful procedural, be brought to completion and an end.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since mr weber does not like right-wing populism, i shall try to confuse him, more than he already seems to be, with a nice speech by a left-wing populist. after days of facade shock, of sometimes clumsy and sometimes furious handling of the emergency, europe is now revealing its strategy, which consists in welcoming a handful of people and showing itself to be the most inflexible, up to the use of force, simply because they do not, according to this model of europe, have the right to exist except in their own home. the fact is that they will come anyway, partly because of a europe that is always lagging behind in understanding the great dynamics of the world. the imperative is no longer to welcome them, but to reject and expel them, and few know exactly what the rules of engagement are for the police forces involved in this new front. this europe is paying turkey to take in 2 million refugees, who, we are told, will have access to health, education and work thanks to european money. it pays the states from which people flee to europe to force them to take them back home, knowing that it is helping to increase the ranks of jihadist fighters. in the chaos of the syrian conflict, this europe does not exist, it either acts by proxy usa , or it is acted upon russia. it could, but it doesn't, confiscate assad's capital and use that wealth to assist the fleeing syrian people. it could, but does not, regulate the trade in arms components. it could, but does not, create a credible european army as a deterrent to war. and i'm coming to the summit tomorrow. the stakes are high and it's not just about immigration. those who, on the basis of economic supremacy, aim to impose a narrow leadership and governance schemes of differentiated integration, are taking on the most serious responsibility of creating a rift in europe. if the principle of 'best before others' is affirmed, the european specificity is declared to be dead. we believe in a europe which is measured by the needs of the people and by the awareness that those who are blind to the signs of their times cannot be the guides of the future.
what rule of the rules of procedure is mr buonanno referring to?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is articles 166 and 167 which concern me because before i entered this chamber i was blocked, i was put on the spot, because i received a notification from president schulz, who wrote to me about a ten-day sanction. it is a pity that the president, who has left, had to consult me first and then adjust the sanction and cite why he sanctioned me. he wrote a whole bunch of things, including some that weren't true, which i read and then i returned the letter. in addition, under rule 167, the member concerned, that is me, can lodge an appeal with the bureau within two weeks. the problem is, they gave me the letter and i returned it, but they still wouldn't let me in. i am not against clerks, because they only follow orders, but i, as a member of parliament, could not enter the chamber, according to president schulz. this is a shame because we talk about democracy, about turkey, and so on, but we do not practice democracy here! only because i took the liberty of criticizing merkel and germany, only because i took the liberty of criticizing volkswagen!
mr buonanno, you have made a speech under the rules of procedure. political commentary is not part of the substance of your speech. a measure has been taken against him, which i believe will come into force on monday next week. you are in the chamber now and you have intervened.
mr etheridge, you have the floor, but the blue card is only for a question. your blue card is before the start of mr lamassoure. please, what is your question?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president juncker has told us about his meetings with refugees. of course, if in his previous experience he had avoided giving away billions of euros to tax evasion and multinationals, all this money could have been used to address social weaknesses, help third world countries, and so on. but it could still be done, if we decided to return this stolen money to the european taxpayer and give it to these people. we would absolutely agree. we are asked whether non-european countries are not doing more than we are. i wonder which non-european countries are doing more than us. for example, are the rich countries in the arab world doing more than us in welcoming? i don't think that's the case. and then to take advantage of this moment, i mean this moment, to proclaim turkey a safe country! but you are obviously being blackmailed by turkey, which tells you that there are as many as seven million poor refugees in the vicinity of its territory who could invade europe. so let us give this satrap of erdogan billions of euros, which we do not know what they will be used for, but certainly not to help the poor of that territory.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the italian delegation also shares the condolences of the families of the victims of the serious terrorist attack in turkey. president juncker has just said that turkey is a useful but difficult ally and partner. we agree with this position, because if turkey is accepting refugees, who are mainly and almost exclusively syrians, we will be very cautious about any liberalization of visas, because it could lead - and this is certainly a more than tangible risk - to a greater flow of migrants into europe. we also touched on the issue of greater resources in terms of migration flows. the council must be involved, but above all the member states, which, like italy, are making enormous efforts to manage migrants. i would remind you that in italy, as the president of frontex leggeri said, 60% of immigrants are illegal immigrants. the issue of detention for irregular migrants is of fundamental importance to us in order to ensure the physical presence of migrants before their removal. often this is not the case and real cooperation with the countries of origin is needed for the identification of irregular migrants and the issuing of travel documents.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the next council must make a first decisive point, a firm point in immigration policy, both for emergency measures and for stable mechanisms, by consolidating a new vision, but one which must be definitive, permanently focused on the common management of asylum and migration. joint management means costs that are borne together, responsibilities shared between the first countries of arrival and the others. this also means the end of dublin, which has become a completely obsolete cage. it is not a generous request to some countries - i would like to say this to the swedish colleague who spoke earlier or to others - but it is simply the consequence of the fact that we are europe together, and any unprecedented and serious event that occurs in the east as well as in the south is a fact that must be dealt with with with a common responsibility. my country, italy, was the first to call for such a position and has done so for a long time. we have made miraculous efforts and you know it, but in the european context it is often ignored, as is the case in greece and other countries. we have asked for this change and we are glad that it has now become a common position. but we must also look far ahead, we must shift the main focus of our democracy and diplomacy to the mediterranean and the middle east, including turkey and africa, because europe's interests, and i would like to say europe's peace and stability, are at stake in those countries and those regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the next european council must lead to an intensification of efforts to ensure a sufficient and appropriate response to the current crisis of immigration and refugees. i hope that this meeting will represent in concrete terms that step forward, which president juncker also wanted so much today, and which is important in the definition of a credible and effective european migration policy. more support is needed for member states most affected by the arrival of refugees. in addition to the establishment of crisis points, so-called 'hot spots', it is important that we can arrange for the rapid relocation of refugees. assistance must be provided to the most urgent needs of refugees on the ground in lebanon, jordan, turkey and support must be given to the countries of the western balkans. it goes without saying that an eu migration policy must address the root causes of illegal migration. a broad-based, long-term approach is needed, including a joint effort by the european union, together with the international community and the un, to achieve a political transition in syria and to defeat isis, both of which, if overcome, would significantly reduce the flow of migrants to europe.
in writing. i would first like to join president schulz in his condolences to the victims of the ankara massacre and to the families affected by this act of terror, to whom i express my full solidarity. the forthcoming european council is the fourth meeting in just six months devoted to the issue of migration. it is now clear that the management of this crisis cannot be left to the individual responsibility of the states which are under constant pressure from these flows. the hot spots are already part of the response, and italy was among the first countries to implement one, but this must be followed by a joint effort to relocate refugees. to deal with such a delicate situation, we must look beyond our borders and look at the origins of these phenomena - i am referring to what is happening in syria and also in turkey. as president juncker has said today, europe is facing a structural crisis which certainly requires immediate responses, but above all a long-term perspective. i think it is good that it has been understood that this perspective cannot be found in an isolated and individual approach, but must be the result of a joint effort.
in writing. the europe of schmit and juncker is a europe that is not able to propose reforms to end the refugee crisis and that only recognises after months the need to commit itself to tackling the ongoing migration crisis. a europe that is still unprepared and disorganized, leaving italy and greece alone to deal with migrants. i want to express my grave concern: the management of emergency situations has put controls on the back burner and funds are often a business for the managing bodies of the centres and in some cases for organised crime. often, funds are given without tendering and there are no systems to monitor how they are spent. the european agenda on migration has highlighted the need for a comprehensive approach but too little has been done in this regard. the burden of this humanitarian crisis continues to fall on a few member states, without that solidarity which is at the heart of the european construction. we need a europe that reforms the dublin treaty and that implements a rigorous control against fraud, that proposes solutions that respect the human rights of refugees and that knows how to act, rather than talk.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have been involved in the drafting of this report and i believe it is a good report because it shows the will of parliament to move forward in the fight against climate change. they're words written in black and white, but they're still words. we heard a lot on the way to paris and we'll hear a lot more. the european union claims to be a leader in the fight against climate change, but the policies of its member states often contradict its commitments and declarations. we fear the consequences of global warming -- it's a daily story now -- but at the same time we fund its root cause. according to a report by the international monetary fund last may, the global subsidies given to oil companies are over five trillion dollars, five trillion to be exact, five trillion in coal, oil and gas loans, mostly from the advanced countries. we may not be the main ones responsible for this enormous gift to the oil lobbies, but certainly the european union is also involved, giving out $330 billion a year in subsidies, but also in infrastructure financing, pipelines and deposits through the european investment bank. the international monetary fund also tells us that if we cut these five trillion dollars of subsidies globally, we would achieve an immediate 20% reduction in global emissions and free up resources in a virtuous flywheel that would lead to a 3.5% growth in world gdp. the real question is whether we are prepared to go against the fossil fuel lobby. we are talking about cop 21, but the race to fossil fuels is still on, and indeed the interest seems to be renewed. even the most unusual resources, such as those in the adriatic sea, are attracting and swallowing up oil companies, which are trying to dig the bottom of an increasingly scarce barrel, with the approval of national governments. after the failure of kyoto and the inconclusive global climate policy of recent years, it is necessary that the paris conference leads to a binding agreement on emissions reductions. without a commitment to an energy revolution, it will not be enough.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, when we decided to draw up this own-initiative report in the committee on the environment, we thought that this debate was necessary to give a mandate to the european parliament's delegation to the paris conference. we have had a thorough discussion - and i thank mr pargneaux for the great work he has done - and we have found a common mediation with regard to a text which obviously must be ambitious. we know very well, commissioner, how europe has led the way in the fight against climate change, and we must continue to look to paris for ambitious solutions. we must force the hand of those countries which have not believed until now, and the targets communicated by 140 countries for reducing emissions are certainly a first achievement. we must continue along this path, aware that only if there are strong commitments from all the major polluters, then we can continue along this path. on the other hand, to those who are concerned about the reduction in the competitive capacity of our system, i say that we will have to wait until after paris to see what we can do. then we can decide.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the whole world is looking to paris with hope. the excellent work done by mr pargneaux gives us a strong report, clear objectives, realistic because reality and the facts tell us that we must change course. what is yet to happen to understand that decarbonizing the economy is not a caveman's fixation that wants to block development and progress. that is why we must insist on progressively reducing the incentives for the extraction of fossil coal and shifting these resources to renewable sources, energy saving and energy efficiency. that's why i keep thinking that sustainable development doesn't rhyme with new drilling. realism means not putting your head in the sand. the earth's resources are not unlimited. to maintain our western standards of well-being, we must change. we cannot continue to use the resources of one and a half minutes in a year. this is the challenge of the circular economy: 30% of the production using the best possible resources.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like to reiterate my thanks to mr pargneaux and all those who have collaborated on the delivery of this important report. i just want to make four points. first of all, there is a lot of work ahead of us in the 50 days we have before paris. we are not there yet. it is true that there are indices: at the moment, more than 150 countries have presented their indices. there is a high level of ambition but we are not within the two-degrees objective. under a business-as-usual scenario, according to the ipcc assessment, the increase in world temperature would be in a range of 3.8 to 4.7 degrees. with all the 150 indices on the table, according to the joint research centre estimates, we are at about three degrees. a lot of work has to be done in paris, and that means that paris must produce an ambitious agreement with a dynamic process of review, including transparency and accountability, and with a clear long-term goal allowing us to take stock from time to time and raise the level of our ambition. tackling and facing up to global warming is not a matter that we will solve at the paris meeting, but in paris we have to create the instruments for long-lasting action towards fighting global warming throughout the century. we have to achieve full decarbonisation of our economies before the end of the century, and that requires a lot of effort. i want briefly to answer some remarks that members made: mr eickhout, mr groote, mr gerbrandy, mr liese and ms guteland asked what will happen with maritime and navigation transport. the commission considers that the international navigation and shipping sectors should also contribute to the global efforts for emissions reductions, because if we want a comprehensive and consistent agreement for below two degrees it must cover all sectors of the economy, including international transport. this should entail a mandate to the international civil aviation organisation (icao) and the international maritime organisation (imo) to deliver a concrete message on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from international aviation and shipping. those emissions should also be subject to regular review so that the measures can be enhanced over time, in line with decarbonisation scenarios. there was also a question to the commission concerning our position on earmarking eu emissions trading system (ets) allowances for international climate finance. ets auction revenues are one of the many public revenue sources that member states may use to mobilise climate finance, and the commission proposal for the ets revision actively encourages member states to use ets auction revenues to finance climate action. lastly, there was a question relating to fossil fuels. the commission is in favour of phasing out fossil fuel subsidies, and in the g20 framework we supported the united states proposal for a target date of 2025.
in writing. climate change is a threat that could have irreversible effects on the biosphere and human society. that is why the paris climate conference must lead to an agreement of the most ambitious, universal and legally binding nature. only an agreement with these characteristics will provide long-term solutions to the climate challenge and help achieve the goal of a temperature increase of less than 2°c. recent years have shown that climate change has direct and often dramatic consequences on people's lives. from 2008 to 2013, storms, floods, earthquakes and other extreme weather events forced 166 million people to suddenly leave their homes and move. as president juncker noted in his first state of the union address, climate change could even contribute to a worsening of the refugee crisis in the mediterranean. the next summit in paris must therefore put the problems of environmental migration firmly on the international political agenda and create a fertile ground for the recognition of the phenomenon of migration due to environmental changes and therefore for the recognition of the status of environmental refugee.
in writing. the climate conference in paris at the end of the year is of enormous importance, as it is the venue for the signing of the new international climate agreement. i very much welcome the report on this subject, as it sets clear and shared objectives on energy efficiency, the use of renewable energy and the reduction of emissions, but above all it stresses the importance of concluding an ambitious and binding agreement. the environment and climate change have always been a key issue in our struggles and i was therefore pleased to vote in favour of the rapporteur's report.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in a ruling last week, the court of justice of the european union declared invalid the decision allowing the transfer of european citizens' data to the united states, because the us level of data protection was totally inadequate. these are the premises on which we are preparing to sign the ttip - the biggest treaty in history - with a country that has spied on us, that has put our presidents under surveillance and that, with the worst mercantilist approach, treats our data as property and does not even protect the basic rules of privacy. but even more importantly, this is the country with which we are about to sign tisa, the agreement on the liberalization of services, which will allow big companies to have free access to our data. and think about it, among the future signatories to this treaty, the united states is even first in class, because tisa is signed with china, mexico, pakistan, countries that certainly don't shine in the defense of data or rights. this sentence, gentlemen, is a wake-up call. you can't sell the rights to gain market share. my invitation is to stop this mad race while we still have time.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, now that the institution whose task it is to ensure that european law is respected has invalidated the substance of an agreement to which we have entrusted the protection of the privacy of our citizens, we cannot delay any longer. the european commission, which is also responsible for ensuring that community rules are properly applied, is called upon to find timely solutions to the uncertainty surrounding the transfer of data to the united states. it is important and urgent to identify a renewed strategic approach to the negotiation of the new 'safe harbour' agreement, which takes account of what the court of justice has just established on the basis of the european directive on data protection. we need to feel confident that we can live online without worrying about how sensitive information will be used, free to share sensitive information even with our loved ones. the fundamental rights of european citizens are at stake and they must not be sacrificed on the altar of other rights.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the judgment of the court of justice invalidating the commission's decision on the transfer of data to the united states, we note two encouraging facts. the first is that there is a judge in luxembourg who is making the europe of rights prevail over the arbiters of the markets. the second is that there are ordinary citizens who are defending us against abuse and are achieving what parliament has not achieved with so many resolutions. young schrems is one of these. her fight for justice has led her to the furrow of edward snowden, nominated by our group for the sakharov prize along with other whistleblowers. after three judgments of the court, i believe it is more necessary than ever to review all the negotiations on this matter and promote an eu digital bill of rights, based on the principles already contained in the charter, similar to the civil framework adopted in brazil in 2014.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have already highlighted in my speech in the last plenary session on geo-blocking the stimulus provided by the important decision of the court of justice of 6 october 2015. the court, in invalidating the safe harbour, ruled on a further principle of living law relating to the fundamental freedom of the individual. electronic communications of sensitive data must be considered part of the right to privacy and domestic control over possible infringement and protection must be reinforced. the decision will have more impact than one might think, as it will be a watershed between positive objectives in support of the digital single market strategy and defensive objectives such as its influence in the ttip agreements, and even more in matters of top intelligence, such as the prisma surveillance program that snowden discovered to be able to monitor all world internet traffic. but the underlying thought is that when, as in this case, justice intervenes in place of politics and the legislator, setting principles that neither of them have been able to define, i understand that the violation of fundamental principles has already happened a long time ago.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like to thank members very much for this discussion, which also gave me some more ideas and inspiration. you asked several times what the commission is going to do. i tried to explain this at the beginning but perhaps i should go into more detail now. i think we all understand the complexity of this matter. we europeans value the right to privacy and the right to the protection of our private data as a fundamental right. in the united states, when we negotiate safe harbour and the protection of european data in the united states, we understand that there is a highly valued principle of security and also the fact that the data is a commercial commodity. this is the area in which we are acting and where we want to achieve strong commitments, from the side of the united states, that europeans’ data will be very well protected – and at least as well as we do it in the european union. this is our goal. you will understand that this is not easy to achieve because we are in the field of non-european jurisdiction. we also have to work with this fact. so what are we going to do? i am working intensively on a strategy to find a solution to this situation. i see three stages. the short-term stage is now very much dependent on the strong and independent data protection authorities and on their unified pan-european approach in providing clear guidance to businesses which are expressing very strong concerns that they are in a situation of legal uncertainty. we all understand that this is the case for businesses. this is an uneasy situation. in the medium term we need to achieve good results in negotiations on the new, safer safe harbour and the new adequacy decision. i will come back to this. in the long term – and i also spoke about this at the beginning – we need to put more pressure on the united states towards their reform of national intelligence and a higher level of protection of privacy. this will be for the long term. this is what i wanted to stress at the beginning, asking you to help with your counterparts in the united states at your level. going back to safe harbour, safe harbour is a specific system which was created for transatlantic data flows. i am convinced that this system was created for a very good reason because the volume of the data transferred is extremely big and the data transfers are also extremely important for economic and commercial cooperation with the united states. this specific regime was declared invalid and now the conditions which are provided for by the data protection directive protection for international transfers must be applied. this is where we are now. but we understand – and i am convinced – that we need this new requested decision which will represent a new system which is something like a safer safe harbour. members are absolutely right that we need to look again at the 13 recommendations which were defined in 2013 as a reaction to the revelations about the extreme access of the security service to european data. we will look at those 13 recommendations in the light of the court ruling, which is the strong and clear benchmark for us in this retesting of these recommendations, because the court is in fact giving us new criteria for the assessment of adequacy. this is exactly what we are doing now. we start the negotiations tomorrow after a very thorough analysis of the court ruling. the negotiations will start tomorrow, and on friday on a technical level with our united states partners. we need to look again at all the recommendations regarding the commercial part and especially at those recommendations which concern national security considerations. we were very close to finalising the negotiations on safe harbour before the summer, but we knew that the court ruling would come soon so we waited for the decision in order to continue the negotiations. i can only conclude with the quite positive assessment that all the criteria which the court ruling contained regarding the adequacy of data protection in the united states are feasible to achieve, but we must be much more assertive and much stronger now in the negotiations. we are fully aware of the fact that time is against us and we need to step up our efforts.
in writing. the statement by commissioner vera jourová reassured us by showing that the commission took seriously the judgment of the european court of justice which led to the suspension of the safe harbor agreement. this is a field of personal data protection, not just management: a typical case where society and technology evolve faster than the laws that should govern them. on the one hand, it is essential to ensure that the privacy of european citizens' data is respected, but on the other hand, we cannot fail to consider the difficulties this ruling poses not only for companies but also for the future of the internet. the fragmentation of legislation created in this "vacatio legis" in fact threatens to undermine the very principle on which the web was born and developed: its inherent ability to be global and to connect different parts of the world. the commissioner assured that the european executive was already dealing with the matter, listening to all the parties involved and entering into a dialogue with the united states, with the ultimate aim, which we can only support, of securing a new and solid agreement to guarantee the privacy of transatlantic data.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in ukraine, as seen from paris, presents us with a picture of lights and shadows. of course, geopolitical interests are increasingly entangled, even with the complicated middle eastern chessboard. it is no secret, in fact, that putin's choice to consolidate positions in syria in support of assad, and thus create further stalemate, is an important bargaining chip to be used perhaps to soften positions in ukraine itself. the news from the front would seem quite positive. the ceasefire seems to be holding, despite the death and two wounded yesterday. the postponement of the elections in donetsk and lugansk is helping to bring about détente, there is still talk of a special status for autonomy, there has been an agreement on gas, and all in all minsk ii seems to be starting to work. the real question, however, is whether the ukrainian government today is a credible government and partner. i honestly see very, very little from this point of view. the reforms are completely deadlocked and the european union often focuses more on economic and liberalisation reforms than on the very important reforms on corruption, which is also rampant. the influence of the oligarchs is still incredible and the economic catastrophe remains behind the doors, despite the agreement with the imf, and the conflict costs 5 million a day, according to poroshenko, but i believe a little more. do we really want to negotiate visa arrangements with them? frankly, i would say no. i would rather say that it is time to make silent and public diplomacy speak loudly and that we also need a relaxation on the sanctions front. i say this especially to those countries which are continuing to ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is very strange indeed that another creeping enemy has not been included, not only in third countries but also in europe, namely christianophobia. we as the italian delegation wanted it to be inserted in the title of the oral question. christians who are discriminated against, who are harassed in 151 countries of the world are free in only 40 out of 193 countries. in europe too, as the honourable member has said, there are marginalizations, discriminations and restrictions on freedom. we are only looking at what is happening and the very serious acts of persecution in third countries, but which unfortunately also exist in europe. these acts, which have gone from intolerance and discrimination to actual criminal acts against christians, must be sanctioned and punished by european laws and conventions. so we have to put christianophobia alongside islam and anti-semitism.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the new mechanism for relocating refugees has been activated in recent days and several 'hot spots' are being set up. in fact, this is an organizational model that has been developed for some time in my country, particularly in sicily, where the new frontex headquarters are located in catania. these are important measures, but they are insufficient and not without problems. it is necessary to avoid the risk of a short circuit in the hot spot system which, due to the contradictions of the current regulatory framework, could lead to hasty returns or to an unlawful extension of the period of stay in the centres. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. the new mechanisms will facilitate the relocation of a certain number of refugees, but we must remember that, with regard to all other migrants, there are still no concrete solutions, which i think are also necessary.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is of the utmost importance to give the european police forces maximum support and freedom of action in the fight against terrorism. i am voting in favour of the kirkhope report to ensure that the competent authorities have access to the visa information system (vis) so that they can carry out the necessary checks in cases of suspected serious crime and terrorism in the best possible way and with the greatest possible efficiency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that, in the context of the fight against terrorism that we are pursuing, access to the visa information system (vis) for consultation by the authorities of the member states and europol is a fundamental tool. it is important that the counter-terrorism authorities of each member state cooperate in order to make the fight against terrorism more effective and efficient.
in writing. ‒ the visa information system (vis) is the system for exchanging visa data for entry into the schengen area between the member states. the availability of exchange and comparison of such data by europol and the visa and border control authorities of the member states is important in preventing and combating terrorist activities and other serious criminal offences. in the fight against terrorism and criminal organisations, it is essential that the competent services have the most comprehensive and up-to-date information possible in their respective fields at their disposal in a timely manner. the availability of information and the speed of action make the difference between thwarting an attack or mourning its consequences. the creation of a single protocol regulating the handling of data and the possibility of access to it by police and investigative forces is important in reconciling the need for security and the fight against terrorist and criminal organisations with the right to privacy of every european citizen.
in writing. - i vote for it. the authorities will be able to cross-check in cases of serious crime or terrorism. the citizens need more security.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the draft resolution to set the date from which the decision on access to the visa information system (vis) for consultation takes effect. this structure should aim to improve the implementation of the common visa policy, also contributing to internal security and the fight against terrorism, according to well-defined and controlled parameters. in order to combat terrorism and other serious crimes effectively, it is essential that the relevant services have comprehensive and up-to-date information in their respective fields, so that they can properly carry out their duties. the data contained in the vis should therefore be available for consultation by national authorities and also by europol, which plays a key role in the cooperation between member states' authorities in the investigation of cross-border crime. this decision also has the merit of pursuing its objectives in full respect of the fundamental rights and principles enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a council implementing decision aims to replace decision 2013/392/eu, which was annulled by a judgment of the court of justice of the eu for failure to consult the european parliament (judgment of the court of justice of 16 april 2015 in case c-540/13 parliament v council). in that judgment, however, the court maintained the effects of the first decision 2013/392/eu until the entry into force of a new act intended to replace it. this act is the decision voted today, which in the final analysis only fixes the date on which the decision enters into force. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal under consideration concerning the date of entry into force of decision 2008/633/jha on access for consultation of the visa information system (vis) by the designated authorities of the member states and europol for the purposes of the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and of other serious criminal offences. this decision replaces council decision 2013/392/eu, which was annulled by a judgment of the court of justice of the eu. by its judgment, the court maintained the effects of decision 2013/392/eu until the entry into force of a new act replacing it. decision 2008/633/jha therefore replaces decision 2013/392/eu and the latter has ceased to have effect.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal because i think it is going in the right direction, namely to protect countries from the possibility of being victims of certain forms of violence. i believe that it is important, even before we face certain serious situations, to be able to prevent them and, if possible, to avoid them by relying on the appropriate authorities.
in writing. ‒ the intensification of the migration phenomenon, the possible infiltration of terrorist cells and the attacks that have occurred in recent years in europe represent a threat to the security of european citizens. it is essential to improve border controls and prevent possible terrorist attacks. i therefore support this report which aims to ensure the continuity of access rights for consultation of the visa information system (vis) by the designated authorities of the member states and europol.
in writing. ‒ i confirm with a positive vote the report expressing support for the council's decision to approve access by the competent authorities to the vis (visa information system) so that the authorities concerned can cross-check cases of suspected serious crime or terrorism.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of mr kirkhope's report. it aims to further consolidate the right of access for consultation of the visa information system (vis) by the schengen states and europol. the objective of the vis is to ensure an area of freedom, security and justice and the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and of other serious criminal offences.
in writing. ‒ i support parliament's legislative resolution on the draft decision fixing the date from which decision 2008/633/jha on access for consultation of the vis information system by the designated authorities of the member states and europol for the purposes of preventing the detection and investigation of terrorist offences and of other serious criminal offences takes effect. the establishment of the vis constitutes one of the priority initiatives of the policies of the european union aimed at improving the implementation of the common policy on internal security and the fight against terrorism and other serious crime. the information contained in the vis is necessary for the purposes of preventing and combating terrorism and other serious crime and should therefore be available for consultation by the designated authorities. in order to ensure the continuity of access rights for consultation of the vis by the authorities designated by the member states and by europol for the purposes of the prevention, detection and investigation of serious crime, it is therefore appropriate to maintain the date from which decision 2008/633/jha entered into force.
in writing. ‒ by voting in favour, i intend to support the council implementing decision setting a specific date for the entry into force of decision 2008/633/jha on the possibility for the authorities designated by the member states and europol to consult the visa information system.
in writing. ‒ in view of the growing terrorist threat to which the european union has been exposed for some time, including the increased level of security in areas such as crimea, syria, the maghreb, etc., i am unquestionably voting in favour. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for striking the right balance on such a sensitive subject.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of access to the vis (visa information system) by the designated authorities of the member states responsible for security. i believe that in the fight against terrorism, as in the fight against other serious crimes, it is important that the competent authorities have as complete and up-to-date information as possible. better access to sensitive information could lead to an improvement in the common visa policy and contribute to the eu's internal security. i also believe that europol, which through its activities contributes to the prevention, analysis and investigation of criminal activities at european level, should also be able to access vis data, albeit with due regard for the protection of personal data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i support the need to guarantee and increase both personal and collective security by improving the prevention of terrorist offences and other serious crimes within the european union. it is important that the member states' international control and security authorities and europol have accurate and comprehensive information tools, such as access to the visa information system (vis), in order to prevent the occurrence of any form of terrorist act.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i recognise the usefulness of the vis system in the fight against terrorism and crime.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of the visa information system (vis) is one of the key initiatives of the european union's policies aimed at creating an area of justice, freedom and security. the vis should aim to improve the implementation of the common visa policy and to contribute to internal security and the fight against terrorism. i have therefore decided to give my consent to the council decision, as it ensures continuity of access to the vis by europol and the authorities designated by the member states.
in writing. ‒ i did not intend to support this report analysing draft amending budget no 6 for the financial year 2015 with my vote, because i do not agree with the inclusion of a trust fund to support the further enlargement of the member states among the measures envisaged.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the new allocation of resources in the 2015 budget, which does not provide for any increase in costs, will allow the whole european apparatus to function more efficiently.
in writing. - my vote was negative. i am against the provision of a trust fund for eu enlargement.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the house, i voted in favour of the report on the council's position on draft amending budget no 6 of the european union for the financial year 2015, concerning the use of own resources, the union's trust funds for external action and the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications. analysis of the supporting documentation shows that this technical adjustment to the revenue side of the budget is necessary in the light of recent statistical developments and in line with the distribution agreed between member states, with reference to the revision of the forecasts for traditional own resources and the creation of two new budget lines for expenditure on funds in the 'development and cooperation' and 'enlargement' sectors. the commission notes that the financial corrections for the financial year 2015 were made in accordance with the provisions of the financial regulation. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report by mr eider gardiazabal rubial verifies that draft amending budget no 6/2015 has no impact on the expenditure side of the 2015 budget. the change in revenue is reflected in: the distribution of own resources contributions between the 28 member states is changed and our country is to have its annual contribution reduced by eur 452 million. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 6/2015. the draft contains a revision of the estimates for traditional own resources and vat and gni bases, as well as the accounting of the relevant uk corrections and their financing, the creation of two new budget lines for the support expenditure for trust funds managed by the commission, intended to accommodate the compensation for the management costs related to the eu trust funds for external action, and a change in the establishment plan of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal mainly because i am pleased to see, for once, that the states (and therefore the citizens) can save eur 2.26 billion, i.e. on average eur 4.50 per head. in an institution that costs citizens less than 1% of their gdp, it is a good sign of a careful administration, but one that cannot let us sleep on our laurels: the eu must make good use of the resources it administers, continue to contain costs by reducing waste and finally ensure that there is no temptation to increase the levies from the pockets of the citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 6 of the european union for the financial year 2015 as it concerns a revision of the estimates of traditional own resources, as well as the accounting of the relevant corrections concerning the united kingdom and the allocation between the member states of their contributions to the european budget. this technical adjustment to the revenue side of the union budget is based on recent statistical developments and is in line with the agreed distribution among member states.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget (dab) no 6 deals essentially with a technical amendment and an update of the revenue lines for the eu budget resources, as well as the accounting of the relevant uk corrections and their financing, which involve a change in the allocation of contributions to the eu budget by member states under own resources. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of the european data protection board. for the reasons stated above, i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i vote against these budgetary changes that do not convince our movement, as in the case of the use and management of the trust fund.
in writing. the draft amending budget no 6/2015 involves a change in the distribution of member states' contributions to the union budget. i voted in favour of this because it has no impact on expenditure in 2015 and only changes the distribution of member states' contributions to the european budget. national contributions to the budget on the basis of gni can be reduced by eur 2,26 billion due to higher than expected revenues from traditional own resources.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of draft amending budget no 6 of the european union for the financial year 2015 on 'own resources, union trust funds for external action, office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications'. the draft budget in question contains an adjustment to the distribution of the member states' contributions to the budget of the european union. it also provides for the creation of two new budget lines for support expenditure for trust funds managed by the commission in the 'development and cooperation' areas.
in writing. ‒ i have given my consent to the adoption of draft amending budget no 6/2015 to make technical adjustments. draft amending budget no 6/2015 has no impact on the expenditure of the 2015 budget but introduces the creation of two new budget lines to support the trust funds managed by the commission in the field of development and cooperation and enlargement and revises the accounts concerning the united kingdom and their financing. this adjustment will alter the distribution of the planned revenue between the member states.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 6/2015 concerns a revision of the estimates of traditional own resources, vat and gni bases, as well as the accounting of the relevant corrections concerning the united kingdom and their financing. this revision therefore involves a change in the distribution of contributions to the union budget between the member states and the creation of two new budget lines for support expenditure for trust funds managed by the commission in the areas of development and cooperation and enlargement. i voted in favour because this technical adjustment to the revenue side of the union budget is based on the most recent statistical developments and is in line with the agreed distribution among the member states.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for his work and i have decided to give my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 6/2015 of the european union. this correction concerns a revision of the forecasts for traditional own resources, the creation of two new budget lines for support expenditure for trust funds managed by the commission in the areas of development and cooperation and enlargement, a change in the establishment plan of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) and, above all, a slight change in the distribution of member states' contributions to the union budget. the draft budget contains the amounts to be returned to the member states. my vote in favour is mainly due to the fact that i consider the balance of this budget to be perfectly in line with the parameters of previous years. in particular, compared to the 2015 budget, national contributions to the budget on the basis of gni will be reduced by eur 2,26 billion and thus more contributions will be returned to the member states. this is particularly important for the member states which are currently suffering the most from the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the technical adjustments to draft amending budget no 6/2015 would lead to a reduction in national contributions to the budget. in particular, the committee on budgets found that revenue from traditional own resources, such as customs duties and sugar levies, was higher than expected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 6/2015 of the european union, as it is a technical adjustment, without any impact on expenditure in 2015. it provides for a change in the allocation of own resources contributions (cors, i.e. customs duties and sugar contributions) between member states and for the revision of the estimates of the 2015 value added tax (vat) and gross national income (gni) bases.
in writing. ‒ i supported this measure because, unfortunately, it only partly finances direct and targeted interventions in the countries from which migration flows originate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i very much welcome the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to encourage immediate budgetary measures in the context of the european agenda on migration. it is important that the union should take action to deal with this emergency which affects us all very closely.
in writing. - i vote for it. the fund will address the growing resilience and stabilisation needs in syria's neighbouring countries, in particular lebanon, jordan, turkey, iraq and egypt, as well as within syria itself.
in writing. ‒ today i have decided to vote in favour of this proposal as it makes it necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument for commitments in order to supplement the financing provided for in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 of eur 66.1 million in commitment appropriations, equivalent to eur 52.9 million in 2016 and eur 13.2 million in 2017, in order to finance measures to manage the refugee and migrant crisis. however, it should be noted that the mobilisation of this instrument once again demonstrates the absolute need to ensure greater flexibility for the union budget. council regulation (eu) no 1311/2013 establishes the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020, allowing the use of the flexibility instrument to finance expenditure which would not otherwise be covered by the available ceilings of one or more headings of the multiannual financial framework. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the migration crisis has shaken europe in recent months and we have tried to identify ready and immediate responses to deal with this emergency. i therefore voted in favour of the request to mobilise a special instrument, provided for in the multiannual financial framework, to support budgetary measures in the context of the european agenda on migration. i hope that this will enable the financing of measures to deal with the migrant and refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures in the framework of the european agenda on migration. the total amount is eur 66,1 million, of which eur 52,9 million in 2016 and eur 13,2 million in 2017.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe it is appropriate to make it possible to mobilise new funds to support the migration problem. the problem is plain to see: and thousands and thousands of people are trying to get into europe. finally, the council is able to give the green light for the problem to be tackled by all the countries together, instead of by the individual countries at the port, and this requires a lot of resources. it is almost an act of voting in favour of this proposal and i have certainly not backed down.
in writing. ‒ the management of the migration crisis and the reception of refugees requires the provision of adequate and targeted economic resources, other than those currently available to support reception centres, local agencies and police forces carrying out external border controls. in this regard, it is envisaged to strengthen the emergency assistance provided by the asylum, migration and integration fund of the internal security fund. i voted in favour of the report mainly because it seeks to increase the economic resources to be used in dealing with the current migration crisis. it should be considered that the exponential increase in the number of migrants and asylum seekers was not foreseeable at the time of the adoption of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 and that, given the impact and the spread of the phenomenon in the long term, it is necessary to revise the annual budgetary procedure and multiannual funding.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this instrument, which is intended to finance measures to deal with the refugee crisis. the european commission, having examined all possibilities for reallocating appropriations under the heading of expenditure 'security and citizenship' (heading 3), proposes to mobilise eur 66,1 million under the flexibility instrument above the expenditure ceiling for this heading. the payment appropriations corresponding to the proposed mobilisation of the flexibility instrument shall be eur 52,9 million in 2016 and eur 13,2 million in 2017.
in writing. ‒ approves the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument with corresponding payment appropriations for the financial year 2015 amounting to 66,1 million, 52,9 million in 2016 and 13,2 million in 2017 to finance certain measures in the field of migration. as everyone knows, we are firmly opposed to this immigration policy, which we consider harmful and vicious, but we will vote in favour of these budgetary increases, which also include more aid on the ground, especially at the border with syria.
in writing. urgent mobilisation of the flexibility instrument is necessary to provide an additional eur 401,3 million for the management of the immigration emergency. as a sicilian, i am fully aware of the situation of migrants and i believe that we must act quickly to manage this unprecedented flow, while ensuring the reception, in full compliance with the rules, and the safety of our citizens. today's proposal, given the emergency conditions, will make it possible to allocate the necessary resources to cope with an unprecedented number of refugees and migrants arriving at the southern and eastern borders of the european continent.
in writing. ‒ the flexibility instrument under the european agenda on migration and on budgetary cooperation and sound financial management needs to be mobilised for commitment appropriations to supplement the financing provided for in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 of eur 66,1 million to finance measures to manage the refugee and migrant crisis. the mobilisation of this instrument indicates the urgency of ensuring greater flexibility for the budget of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on asylum and return, in particular by ensuring that the union's asylum system is as transparent as possible, and by ensuring that the union's asylum system is as transparent as possible.
in writing. ‒ we support this report because, after having examined all possibilities for reallocating commitment appropriations under heading 3, it is necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument, as proposed by the commission, in order to supplement the financing provided in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 of eur 66.1 million to support measures to manage the refugee and migrant crisis. we also wish to stress that the mobilisation of this instrument, in accordance with article 11 of the mff regulation, once again demonstrates the absolute need to ensure greater flexibility for the union budget.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument to supplement the financing provided in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 of eur 66.1 million in commitment appropriations to finance measures to manage the refugee and migrant crisis. the mobilisation of that instrument for immediate budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration further indicates the need to ensure greater flexibility for the union budget. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the european parliament resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration. i agree to the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for an amount of eur 66,1 million in commitment appropriations and to the proposed allocation of the corresponding payment appropriations of eur 52,9 million in 2016 and eur 13,2 million in 2017. i am convinced that the mobilisation of this instrument once again indicates the absolute need to ensure greater flexibility for the union budget. finally, i think it is necessary to emphasize my long-standing position that payments arising from commitments previously mobilised through the flexibility instrument can only be entered in the budget beyond the ceilings.
in writing. ‒ coming from an electoral college such as that in southern italy, i am well aware of the significance of the migration emergency and the immense efforts required of the host populations, regions and states. i appreciate the rapporteur's work and i am convinced that the question of immigration cannot be tackled from an economic point of view alone. we are living through a human tragedy and i am convinced that we must vote in favour of this report and continue to call for effective and immediate measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of using the flexibility instrument to finance some urgent measures in the area of migration in view of the fact that the expenditure ceiling foreseen in the 2015 budget was not sufficient. the amount of eur 66,1 million is above the ceiling for expenditure under the heading 'security and citizenship' (heading 3) of the eu budget. this additional resources will be used to finance certain measures to manage the refugee and migrant crisis. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. i also believe that the use of this instrument is a clear signal of the need to ensure greater flexibility in the eu budget, so that it is more responsive in responding to crisis situations.
in writing. ‒ in order to respond to the continuing migration emergency, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration. the mobilisation of this instrument will result in eur 66,1 million in commitment appropriations necessary for the management of the refugee and migrant crisis. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the following undertakings:
in writing. ‒ the flexibility instrument allows for the financing of expenditure which could not otherwise be financed within the ceilings provided for in the multiannual financial framework. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of these funds as they will be used to ensure support for some immediate budgetary measures to deal with the current migration crisis.
in writing. ‒ by mobilising the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration, eur 66.1 million will be mobilised to finance measures to manage the migrant and refugee crisis. europe must now turn from words to deeds, fulfilling its duty of solidarity and mobilizing its economic resources to take appropriate and targeted action in response to the massive migratory phenomenon under way. so far, the situation has been dealt with in a disorganized manner and without a plan for the future: the funds provided are nothing more than a buffer measure. we must discuss a plan for the future, revising the dublin treaty and not leaving some member states to deal with this humanitarian crisis alone. although i believe that the solution is still a long way off, the mobilisation of these funds is a first step towards a european response and for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ to finance some measures to deal with the refugee crisis, the european commission, after having examined all possibilities for reallocating appropriations under the 'security and citizenship' expenditure heading (heading 3), proposes to mobilise eur 66.1 million under the flexibility instrument above the expenditure ceiling for this heading. the payment appropriations corresponding to the proposed mobilisation of the flexibility instrument shall be eur 52,9 million in 2016 and eur 13,2 million in 2017. i also supported this text in the committee on budgets, which was adopted in record time, less than 15 days after the european commission presented its proposal. this is a request to mobilise a special instrument provided for in the multiannual financial framework to cover certain expenditure items in excess of the ceilings set by that framework agreement. given the importance of the migration phenomenon, i think it is important to support the use of this instrument to finance measures to deal with the migration and refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the increase in budgetary appropriations for the syrian crisis is the first sign of opening to what the northern league has always supported: the commission has already taken a number of measures to help these people in their places of origin. that is why i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 7/2015, approved by the college of commissioners at the end of last september, concerns the resources to be allocated to emergency measures to manage the migration crisis. the draft budget proposes to increase eu funds to the target of eur 1.7 billion (approximately eur 800 million for 2015 and eur 900 million in 2016). measures are also being taken to encourage more effective action by eu agencies, with an increase of 120 additional resources for frontex (60), easo (30) and europol (30). a plan that can affect such a complex phenomenon requires that all parties are actively involved in a continuous, constructive and proactive dialogue. for this reason it is important that additional funds be provided for the budget line for the mediterranean countries under the european neighbourhood instrument. the adoption of this document following the commission communication is a necessary step, which i support, to ensure a really effective strategy for managing one of the wider crises facing the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is important that the union takes direct action to better manage the refugee crisis affecting our continent. it is important that immediate budgetary measures are implemented to enable operators to cope with this situation in the best possible way.
in writing. - i vote for it. the fund will address the growing resilience and stabilisation needs in syria's neighbouring countries, in particular lebanon, jordan, turkey, iraq and egypt, as well as within syria itself.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on draft amending budget no 7/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015 as it helps to finance the management of the current refugee crisis. the european union must do more to deal with the current crisis of migrants and refugees, helping to stabilise their countries of origin and assisting transit countries. the proposed measures risk being insufficient in view of the overall number of people seeking protection in the union, but the will of all the institutions to increase budgetary appropriations for migration and asylum and to use foreign policy instruments to address the root causes of the migrant and refugee crisis is clear.
in writing. ‒ amending budget no 7 allocates resources to tackle the migration crisis that the eu has been facing massively for some months. the measures provided for in this amendment include, in the first place, the strengthening of emergency assistance provided under the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and the internal security fund (isf). it also proposes to increase the number of staff posts for frontex, easo and europol in order to increase their capacity to operate on the ground, and provides for additional funding for the european neighbourhood instrument. this is certainly not a decisive measure, but i hope it will be useful in trying to improve the management of the migrant and refugee crisis at european level. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has recently proposed a package of measures, both legislative and non-legislative, to deal with the crisis, which is lagging behind the phenomenon and the growing and continuing migratory flows that have affected several eu countries in recent years. the commission has also committed to increase financial support by allocating eur 401,3 million from the 2015 budget to immigration. as budgetary authority, parliament voted to ratify the budget for the current year, to allow, through the transfer of expenditure items, to increase the financial resources of the asylum and internal security funds but also to increase the human resources of the european agency frontex and easo, which will provide support to those member states still at the forefront of the refugee crisis. it is clear that this is not a decisive act, but it is already a first concrete response to the consequences of one of the greatest humanitarian emergencies that the european union has known since its founding.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 7/2015. the draft budget provides for the reinforcement of emergency assistance provided under the asylum, migration and immigration fund (amif) and the internal security fund (isf) for a total amount of eur 100 million, an increase of 120 staff posts for frontex, easo and europol and the corresponding appropriations for salaries until the end of the year of eur 1,3 million, additional funding for the european neighbourhood instrument for a total of eur 300 million and an increase of eur 55,7 million in payment appropriations for humanitarian aid through reallocation. parliament considered that the european union should contribute to the stabilisation of the countries of origin of refugees and assist the countries of transit and called on the commission to present a long-term financial plan to respond to the migrant and refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it aims to strengthen the union's resources for managing the current migrant and refugee crisis by addressing the current funding shortfall. in addition, the proposal provides for the strengthening of emergency assistance provided under the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and the internal security fund (isf) to a total amount of eur 100 million in commitment appropriations, while maintaining the necessary resources, as well as other programmes financed under the amif. finally, i believe that the union must do more to deal with the current migrant and refugee crisis, including by helping to stabilise the countries of origin and assisting the countries of transit, as the proposed measures will certainly not be sufficient given the overall number of people seeking protection in the union.
in writing. ‒ i support the commission's proposal to mobilise the flexibility instrument to supplement the financing provided in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 of eur 66.1 million in commitment appropriations in order to finance measures to manage the refugee and migrant crisis. it will also be essential to strengthen measures to promote asylum, border security and refugee reception policies. the mobilisation of this instrument again indicates the need to ensure greater flexibility in the european budget.
in writing. ‒ amending budget no 7 allocates resources to tackle the migration crisis that the eu has been facing massively for some months. the measures provided for in this amendment include firstly the strengthening of emergency assistance provided under the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and the internal security fund (isf) for a total amount of eur 100 million in commitment appropriations and it is proposed to increase the number of posts for frontex, eaaso and europol to increase their capacity to operate in the field. furthermore, additional funding is foreseen for the european neighbourhood instrument (eur 300 million in commitment appropriations), so that the eu regional trust fund in response to the syrian crisis ('madad fund') can count on at least eur 500 million, and finally an increase of eur 55,7 million in payment appropriations for humanitarian aid through reallocation is proposed. in view of the reasons just mentioned and in view of the fact that this is emergency aid, i can only vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ as everyone knows, we are firmly opposed to this immigration policy which we consider harmful and vicious, but, specifically, these budget increases, which also provide for more aid on the ground, especially at the borders with syria, will receive our favourable vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on draft amending budget no 7/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, managing the refugee crisis: i am therefore very pleased that the commission has taken the decision to provide additional community funding of eur 401.3 million for the eu countries most affected by the influx of refugees, mainly from syria, the third countries hosting the majority of syrian refugees and the three european agencies (easo, europol, frontex) which are at the forefront of the crisis. i fully share the position of the rapporteur of the european parliament to go beyond these measures, which are important because they implement the decisions of the informal european council on migration of 23 september, and therefore to ensure that when the 2016 revision of the union's multiannual financial framework is carried out, the revision takes account of the fact that the refugee problem may prove to be a long-term problem. in parallel with this increase, eur 55.7 million in humanitarian aid payments were approved. this will make it possible to implement aid to refugees. the most directly affected states now have the means to cope with the crisis.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mrs gardiazabal rubial. amending budget no 7/2015 provides for the allocation of additional resources for the european management of migration. this is a further assumption of responsibility by europe towards those member states, primarily italy, which, for geographical reasons, have to deal with the migrant and refugee emergency. in particular, the measure involves an increase in the amount of emergency assistance provided under the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) by eur 80 million and the internal security fund (isf) by eur 20 million. the proposals also generate the creation of 120 new staff positions in order to increase the capacities of three agencies: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european union agency for asylum.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of draft amending budget no 7/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, concerning immediate budgetary measures in the framework of the european agenda on migration. draft amending budget no 7/2015 aims to consolidate the union's resources for managing the current migrant and refugee crisis. the commitment of all institutions to increase budgetary allocations for migration and asylum and to use foreign policy instruments to address the root causes of the refugee and migrant crisis is essential. providing the necessary funding, strengthening the emergency assistance provided under the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund to a total amount of eur 100 million in commitment appropriations in response to the humanitarian situation of migrants and refugees must be a priority for all member states. the european union must help to manage the current migrant and refugee crisis, assist countries of origin and assist countries of transit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of draft amending budget no 7 to the 2015 general budget, which aims to provide longer-term solutions, considering that the increase in refugees and migrants was not yet foreseeable at the time of the adoption of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. the introduction of changes such as the strengthening of emergency assistance provided under the asylum fund, the increase in the number of posts for the three agencies frontex, easo and europol, and the increase in payment appropriations for humanitarian aid are the aims of the project which we had to welcome as a matter of urgency.
in writing. ‒ by adopting this report, we take note of the draft amending budget presented by the commission and the council's position on it, which are intended to deal with the current refugee crisis. we have always offered our readiness to act in good time in accordance with our budgetary responsibilities. we also want to stress that the measures proposed must be accompanied by initiatives to tackle the root causes of the migrant and refugee crisis. the european union will have to work to manage the current crisis by stabilising the countries of origin and assisting the countries of transit. the proposed measures will certainly not be sufficient, given the overall number of people seeking protection in the union. we therefore call on the commission to present a long-term financial plan to respond to the migrant and refugee crisis, including search and rescue operations, and to propose a revision of the multiannual financial framework accordingly.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 7/2015 aims to strengthen the union's resources for managing the current migrant and refugee crisis by addressing the current funding shortfall, the emergency assistance provided under the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and the internal security fund (isf) for a total amount of eur 100 million in commitment appropriations. i voted in favour of this report in order to provide a rapid response to the current refugee crisis, but at the same time we must create initiatives to tackle the root causes of this emergency by helping to stabilise the countries of origin and assisting the countries of transit.
in writing. ‒ the current migration flow affecting the mediterranean region highlights europe's structural unpreparedness in managing the crisis. in practical terms, this is reflected in the insufficient financial resources available to deal with the phenomenon. the commission should also be able to provide information on the number of refugees and migrants seeking refuge in the union, including on the number of persons who have been granted refugee status, and on the number of persons who have been granted refugee status. this phenomenon, which can no longer be considered temporary, requires concerted and long-term solutions. this resolution addresses the problem of the current lack of funding and provides for an increase in both economic and human resources. the proposed measures must be accompanied by initiatives to address the root causes of the migrant and refugee crisis through stabilisation in countries of origin and assistance in countries of transit. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome.
in writing. ‒ as i have said before, in view of the urgency of the migrant crisis, i am in favour of increasing the staff available to frontex, easo and europol for their work in the mediterranean, especially in the area of rescuing victims of shipwrecks, and i am convinced that i will vote in favour. finally, i shall take advantage of the opportunity to address the european parliament's highest assembly to pay tribute to these women and men for the work they do every day to save lives.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget (dab) no 7/2015 identifies a number of priority actions to be taken in the next few months of 2015, using all the possibilities for reallocating appropriations. the effects of the current refugee crisis, which has led to a significant increase in the number of asylum seekers and migrants, were not adequately foreseen at the time of the adoption of the 2014-2020 financial framework. the management of this crisis has required greater flexibility in the budgetary allocations for migration and asylum. i therefore believe that it is necessary to adopt a budget for 2016 that is appropriate to the real scale of this emergency and, above all, that is able to give concrete follow-up to the commitments made by the european institutions. in particular, i am very much in favour of an increase in the staff of easo, bearing in mind that this agency has been given a key role in implementing the common european asylum system. i also welcome the call in the report to the commission to propose a medium- and long-term strategy for the activities of the justice and home affairs agencies in relation to their objectives, their coordination, the development of hot spots and their own financial resources. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 7/2015 as it aims to strengthen the union's resources for the containment and management of migrants and refugees. i welcome the draft amending budget which will bring financial aid totalling eur 100 million in commitment appropriations to be used to improve assistance provided under the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and the internal security fund (isf). in addition, this project will increase the number of staff posts for frontex, easo and europol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because it sets out, among other objectives, to address the syrian crisis through targeted interventions on the ground aimed at stabilising the area.
in writing. ‒ the increase in the number of refugees and migrants was not foreseeable at the time of the adoption of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 and cannot be considered a temporary phenomenon. for this reason, draft amending budget no 7/2015 aims to strengthen the european union's resources for managing the current migrant and refugee crisis by addressing the current funding shortfall. as i believe that this crisis must be tackled by finding longer-term solutions and as the proposal voted on in parliament today takes this perspective into account, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ amending budget no 7 allocates resources to tackle the migration crisis that the eu has been facing massively for some months. the measures provided for in this amendment include firstly the strengthening of emergency assistance provided under the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund for a total amount of eur 100 million in commitment appropriations and it is proposed to increase the number of posts for frontex, easo and europol to increase their capacity to operate on the ground. further funding is also provided for the european neighbourhood instrument, so that the eu regional trust fund in response to the syrian crisis can reach at least eur 500 million, and an increase of eur 55.7 million in payment appropriations for humanitarian aid is proposed through reallocation. this is certainly not a solution, but we hope it will be useful in trying to improve the management of the migrant and refugee crisis at european level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of béla kovács because i believe that the type of offence for which he is accused does not fall under parliamentary immunity in any case. i also hope that the institutions of the union, as well as those of the member states, will implement more effective measures to prevent the recurrence of events such as those attributed to mr kovács.
in writing. ‒ not enough information has been provided to enable a clear position to be taken on the matter.
in writing. ‒ the request for the waiver of the immunity of the hungarian mep béla kovács will allow for investigations to be carried out to ascertain whether there may be an allegation of an offence of espionage against the institutions of the european union. since there seems to be no fumus persecutionis, that is to say, a sufficiently serious and precise indication that the case is being brought before a court with the intention of politically harming the member concerned, i voted in favour of the withdrawal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of béla kovács. on 3 july 2014, the president informed, pursuant to rule 9 (1), that he had received a letter from the hungarian prosecutor general requesting the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of béla kovács. the request for waiver of immunity shall be made in order to enable investigations to be carried out, on the basis of reasonable suspicion, to determine whether there may be a charge of the offence of espionage against the institutions of the union. any person who conducts intelligence activities to the detriment of the european parliament, the european commission or the council of the eu and hungary on behalf of a foreign power shall be punishable by a term of imprisonment of between two and eight years, as provided for in the hungarian penal code. according to information provided by the prosecutor general, kovács has had secret contacts with russian intelligence officials since 2010. the prosecutor has clarified that the investigation and possible subsequent prosecution for which the waiver of immunity is sought is limited to events occurring after 1 january 2014. moreover, there is no reason to suppose that a fumus persecutionis exists.
in writing. ‒ this is the proposal to lift the immunity of the member of the european parliament béla kovács, requested by the hungarian prosecutor general in order to be able to carry out investigations, on the basis of reasonable suspicions, to determine whether there may be an accusation against him in relation to the crime of espionage against the institutions of the european union under section 261/a of act c of 2012 on the hungarian criminal code. under that section, anyone who conducts intelligence activities to the detriment of the european parliament, the european commission or the council of the european union on behalf of a non-union country is punishable in accordance with section 261; the commission has also received comments from the hungarian authorities, which have not provided any information on the implementation of the measures taken by the hungarian authorities. for the reasons stated in the presentation above, i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i have expressed my opposition to the request for the waiver of the immunity of mr béla kovács because i believe that parliamentary immunity is not a personal privilege of a member but a guarantee of the independence of parliament and its members as a super partes institution. i remain convinced that in such cases a guarantor's line must be followed and i shall therefore continue to vote against this type of report in defence of the institutional role conferred by this parliament.
in writing. ‒ on 3 july 2014, the president was informed that he had received a request from the hungarian prosecutor general to waive the immunity of ms béla kovács in order to ascertain whether she was charged with any crime. my vote in favour of the dismissal does not express a judgment as to the guilt or innocence of the member of parliament, but is intended to allow the public prosecutor's offices to investigate the charge against béla kovács for the offence of espionage against the european union under section 261/a of act c of 2012 of the hungarian criminal code.
in writing. ‒ given the importance of the investigations to clarify the facts in which béla kovács is suspected of spying for the european institutions and the sensitivity of the case, i thought it appropriate to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the immunity of the member of the european parliament béla kovács. i believe that it is appropriate to allow the hungarian prosecutor general to carry out the appropriate investigations in order to determine whether or not there can be an indictment on the crime of espionage against the european institutions. however, i would like to stress that my vote in favour of this recall does not imply a judgment as to the guilt or innocence of the member.
in writing. - i vote against it. i am sceptical about the functionality and usefulness of the juncker plan, apart from the deputy director-general of the european fund for strategic investments.
in writing. ‒ as in the case of the director-general of the efsi, i voted against the proposed candidate for the post of deputy director-general. my vote against, in addition to reaffirming my opposition to the juncker plan and the approach of the efsi, also expresses dissent with the figure indicated, who, during the hearing on 13 october, showed that he did not have the appropriate skills.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of iliyana tsanova as deputy director-general of the european fund for strategic investments. article 7 (6) of regulation (eu) 2015/1017 provides that the deputy director-general of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) is to be appointed by the eib, after obtaining the authorisation of the european parliament, following an open and transparent selection procedure. on 2 october 2015, the steering board of the efsi adopted a proposal for the appointment of the deputy director-general of the efsi and forwarded it to the european parliament. on 13 october 2015, the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs held a hearing on the proposed candidate for the post of deputy director-general of the efsi, iliyana tsanova.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate dr iliyana tsanova on her appointment. i voted for it because i thought it was the right thing to do, but i have no intention of giving it carte blanche. the commission's commitment to the development of the european economy must be directed towards this and this is the basis on which it will be judged at the end of its mandate. for now, i wish you a good job.
in writing. ‒ i congratulate iliyana tsanova on her appointment to the prestigious post of deputy director-general of the efsi and wish her a successful career.
in writing. ‒ this is the proposal for the appointment of the deputy director-general of the efsi, as laid down in article 7 of the efsi regulation, which provides for the appointment by the eib, subject to approval by the european parliament (following an open and transparent selection procedure in line with eib procedures, during which the european parliament should be duly informed, in a timely manner, at all stages). in fact, the selection process was not particularly clear or transparent, and that is why i am voting against it.
in writing. the primary objective of the efsi is to bring europe out of the crisis through strategic investments. i therefore believe it is of the utmost importance to make use of the liquidity available to financial institutions, businesses and individuals. in view of this, the presence of highly professional people at the top of the company is a priority. for these reasons, i welcome the appointment of iliyana tsanova to the post of deputy director-general of the efsi.
in writing. ‒ i support the nomination of ilyiana tsanova as the new deputy director-general of the efsi, an important role that requires commitment and expertise.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of ms iliyana tsanova as deputy director-general, confident that her professional experience and personal skills are suitable for this position.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that, on the basis of iliyana tsanova's skills and experience, she is the right person to fill that post and help europe get back on track, using a key instrument such as strategic investment. i give you my full confidence and i give the house my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ following today's vote, i hope that the new deputy director of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), iliyana tsanova, can start work to help provide an immediate stimulus to the economic recovery of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the products it produces. i wish the new deputy director every success and hope that he will be able to play his role with the utmost independence and transparency.
in writing. ‒ i agree to the appointment of iliyana tsanova as deputy director of the european fund for strategic investments as article 7 (6) of regulation (eu) no 2015/1017 provides that the deputy director-general of the efsi is to be appointed by the european investment bank, after approval by parliament, following an open and transparent selection procedure in line with eib procedures, during which the european parliament is informed of all the steps leading to the choice of the candidate.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the appointment of iliyana tsanova as deputy director-general of the european fund for strategic investments, which was the result of decisions taken from above and without any effective democratic control. article 7 of the efsi regulation provides that the deputy director of the fund is to be elected by an open and transparent selection procedure, with the active participation of the european parliament. however, the selection process was unclear and opaque and entirely manoeuvred by the eib, with a parliament relegated to a mere ratification role. as with the appointment of the director-general, we were faced with a fait accompli, with no other option than to approve or reject the only candidate in existence.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for the appointment of the deputy director-general of the efsi was voted on today, in accordance with article 7 of the efsi regulation, which provides that the director-general and deputy director-general of the efsi are to be appointed by the eib, subject to approval by the european parliament (following an open and transparent selection procedure in line with eib procedures, during which the european parliament should be duly informed, in a timely manner, at all stages). in fact, the selection process was not particularly clear or transparent. the candidate for deputy director-general is not at all sustainable in substance, as she was unfortunately chosen perhaps precisely to respect a gender balance rather than for her own abilities, as also demonstrated by the hearing held on 13 october, in which she showed numerous gaps and competency gaps.
in writing. - i vote against it. i am sceptical about the functionality and usefulness of the juncker plan, apart from the director-general of the european fund for strategic investments.
in writing. ‒ we have opposed the juncker plan from the outset, as we believe that the premises on which it is based are wrong, starting with the expenditure chapters from which part of the funds are to be raised and the identification of the system that should lead to their multiplication. the present application merely confirms the negative premises, since the person indicated is a purely political figure belonging to a faction which has no other interest than to continue in the announced direction. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of mr wilhelm molterer as director-general of the european fund for strategic investments. article 7 (6) of regulation (eu) 2015/1017 provides that the director-general of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) is to be appointed by the eib, after obtaining the consent of the european parliament, following an open and transparent selection procedure. on 2 october 2015, the efsi steering committee adopted a proposal for the appointment of the director-general of the efsi and forwarded it to the european parliament. on 13 october 2015, the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs held a hearing on the proposed candidate for the post of director-general of the efsi, mr wilhelm molterer.
in writing. ‒ i have followed the advice of my colleagues who attended the hearing of wilhelm molterer and i have decided to vote in favour of his appointment. although parliament only expresses an opinion on this, i found this transparency to be positive and i appreciated the procedure. on paper, molterer seems to have all the qualifications. in sending him my good wishes, i assure him of my constant commitment to monitoring his work.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to learn of the appointment of mr wilhelm molterer as director-general of the european fund for strategic investments. i would like to congratulate the director and wish him all the best for his new appointment.
in writing. ‒ this is the proposal for the appointment of the director-general of the efsi as laid down in article 7 of the efsi regulation, which provides for the appointment by the eib, subject to approval by the european parliament (following an open and transparent selection procedure in line with eib procedures, during which the european parliament should be duly informed, in a timely manner, at all stages). in fact, the selection process was not particularly clear or transparent, and that is why i am voting against.
in writing. the efsi, set up within the european investment bank (eib), mobilises additional investment in the real economy in areas such as infrastructure, education, research, innovation, renewable energy and energy efficiency. the appointment of its director-general therefore deserves particular attention and i welcome the appointment of wilhelm molterer to the post of director-general of the efsi.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal to appoint wilhelm molterer as the new director-general of the european fund for strategic investments. molterer's acquired skills and professional experience are to be considered as an added value to the operation of the fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of appointing wilhelm molterer as director-general of the european fund for strategic investments, convinced that he can best represent us in the efsi's challenge to improve the european union's competitiveness, boost innovation and support small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. ‒ i have great respect for wilhelm molterer and i am convinced that he will do a great job as director-general of the efsi and that he will make the most of its potential for a better europe. i am satisfied with your nomination, and i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ article 7 of regulation (eu) no 2015/1017 provides that the director-general of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) is to be appointed by the eib, subject to approval by the european parliament. the efsi is the main vehicle for mobilising at least eur 315 billion of additional investment in the real economy over the next three years. this fund will finance projects aimed at maximising the impact of public spending and unlocking private investment. the fund will be set up within the european investment bank (eib). i hope that, following today's vote, the new director of the efsi, wilhelm molterer, will be able to start working as soon as possible so that the eu is able to overcome the current economic difficulties by providing an immediate stimulus to the real economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to appoint wilhelm molterer as the new director-general of the efsi as article 7 (6) of regulation (eu) no 2015/1017 provides that the director-general of the efsi is to be appointed by the european investment bank (eib), subject to approval by the european parliament, following an open and transparent selection procedure in line with the eib procedures and under the monitoring of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the director-general of the efsi, according to article 7 of the rules of procedure, is appointed by the eib, after approval by the european parliament. such approval requires an open and transparent selection procedure for candidates, which keeps parliament informed in a timely manner at all stages. however, the parliamentary assembly has not taken any part in this selective process, except to ratify decisions taken from above without any democratic consultation. the newly elected director-general, wilhelm molterer, is a member of the austrian people's party (epp) and therefore a purely political figure, whose appointment only serves to pave the way for the implementation of the failed juncker plan. the five star movement has always fought against the power logic that achieves political goals through the allocation of seats without any democratic consultation. i therefore decided to vote against this nomination.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for the appointment of the director-general of the efsi was voted on today, as provided for in article 7 of the efsi regulation, which provides that the director-general and deputy director-general of the efsi are to be appointed by the eib, subject to approval by the european parliament (following an open and transparent selection procedure in line with eib procedures, during which the european parliament should be duly informed, in a timely manner, at all stages). in fact, the selection process was not particularly clear or transparent. the candidate for director-general is not at all viable in substance, since he will be a purely political figure who will only ensure the continuation of 'business as usual'.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the pargneaux report on the prospects for the new international climate agreement in paris is overly optimistic and fails to take account of the reality of the facts and the results achieved so far. i did not therefore intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the 21st conference of the parties in paris is just a few weeks away, an event for which we have been preparing for some time and from which important results are expected. the fight against climate change is the challenge of our century. i fully agree with that statement and with the contents of this resolution. the pargneaux report has set high and ambitious targets for the eu, consistent with the intention of keeping climate change below 2°c. these include cutting greenhouse gases by 2050 (85-90% reduction), reducing them by at least 40% by 2030 and increasing the share of renewable energy to at least 30% by the same year. such an energy and climate policy also offers important opportunities in terms of economic growth, employment and improving the purchasing power of the 500 million european citizens we represent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i firmly believe that the climate crisis must be tackled decisively before the changes it has caused become irreversible. it is also important that the european union, the world's largest economy, should take the lead in this movement with conviction, in order to achieve concrete results.
in writing. ‒ the paris international climate conference (cop21) is one of the most important moments in the process of laying the groundwork for a legally binding agreement to combat climate change. our main objective, as emphasized in the report by our socialist colleague, mr gilles pargneaux, is to combat global warming. it is therefore necessary to increase energy efficiency and energy saving, to increase renewable energy sources and to eliminate greenhouse gases altogether. we must continue on the path towards a gradual but complete phasing out of fossil fuels and introduce a financing package to support the fight against global warming. it is clear that the eu alone cannot solve the problem, but it can make a very significant contribution and at the same time, by setting a good example, can push other countries in the same direction. the eu has always been at the forefront of tackling climate change and can continue to be so, to protect the environment in which we live and in which our children will live.
in writing. - i vote against it. one-sided approach, emphasis on new financing instruments on a global scale, from apprentice sorcerers of globalized finance, emphasis on the recognition of climate refugee status. the eu's climate policy is catastrophic.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the new international climate agreement to be adopted in paris. effective measures are needed to counter the alarming signs of climate change such as rising temperatures, melting glaciers and flooding. the eu and its member states have jointly committed to a binding target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030 compared to 1990 levels. these objectives are moving in the right direction, but they should be more ambitious. the paris conference is the beginning of a dynamic and evolving process that will allow the international community to take corrective action to realign itself on the trajectory needed to keep the temperature rise below 2°c. the union should pursue an effective policy towards an energy transition by 2050, through climate and energy policy instruments and with the involvement of other sectors such as transport, research, innovation or development cooperation. the european union's contribution must be a model for all other nations in terms of clarity, transparency and ambition, and that is why i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to vote for the report by my colleague, which was ambitious in terms of the objectives to be set for the climate conference in paris at the end of the year. the european union must play a strong role, otherwise our planet will be at risk of being attacked from overseas and from emerging economies.
in writing. ‒ there is great anticipation for the international climate conference, an event of the utmost importance for the protection of the biosphere. it's hard not to link global warming in recent decades to an increase in extreme weather events. last week, heavy rains in my region led to flooding of rivers, devastating entire urban centers, an apocalyptic landscape to which we are not accustomed, and it was not the only italian region to suffer serious damage. the achievement of a legally binding global climate agreement is no longer a wish but a necessity and a commitment from which no one should shy away. the european parliament, as the report for which i voted requires, comes to cop21 with a clear, united and unequivocal position: halve greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, increase renewable energy by 30% and energy efficiency by 40% by 2030. europe has long been a world leader in tackling climate change and has set strict emission limits for member states. we need now for the major international competitors to make the same commitments if we are to avoid the serious and real risk of witnessing massive climate migrations soon.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the international climate agreement to be negotiated at the united nations climate conference in paris from 30 november to 11 december 2015. climate change is one of the major challenges facing humanity. in march, the eu and its member states committed themselves to jointly meet a binding target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the eu by at least 40% by 2030 compared to 1990. however, these objectives should be more ambitious. the paris agreement will have to be universal and legally relevant. on the financial side, it is planned that from now until 2020, $100 billion will be transferred to developing countries every year to help them pay for greenhouse gas reductions. the european parliament, in its resolution, calls for the intensification of discussions at the european level with a view to agreeing a common position and recalls that it will have to give its consent to the union's ratification of the legally binding agreement resulting from the paris conference. parliament should therefore participate fully in the coordination meetings during the paris conference.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity in the fields of sustainable development, health and the global economy. rising temperatures, melting glaciers, more droughts and floods are all signs of ongoing climate change. climate change requires an urgent, responsible and global response, based on solidarity of the international community. in addition, to strengthen the european union's position in international negotiations, the european parliament must defend the need to set ambitious and realistic targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 50% by 2030 compared to 1990 levels, increase the share of renewable energy to 45% of the energy mix and achieve energy savings of 40%, and at the paris conference the parties do not meet to try to do something, but to take decisions. finally, i am convinced that the paris agreement will be ambitious, universal and legally binding in order to provide a long-term response to the climate challenge, although the european union should intensify its diplomatic efforts to better understand the positions of partner countries, encourage them to implement ambitious policies to combat climate change and build alliances in support of this ambition.
in writing. ‒ a stable climate system is essential for ensuring water supply, sanitation, food security, the maintenance of biodiversity, and peace and prosperity in the world. unfortunately, however, especially in recent years, the increase in global warming is causing inestimable damage to land and marine ecosystems, such as melting glaciers, droughts, floods, and so on. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that there is a need for urgent action at world level, without delay, with binding and concrete measures and the sharing of good practice. first, by calling on all member states to work with all civil society actors (institutions, private sector, ngos and local communities) to implement national strategies for decarbonisation, and to transform the energy sector by 2050, taking corrective action to keep temperature rise below 2°c. in addition, climate finance, technology transfer, capacity building, scientific research, technological development and innovation will play an essential role in reaching an agreement at the paris conference.
in writing. ‒ contains a legally binding 2015 protocol which should aim to phase out global carbon emissions by 2050; a binding 50% reduction target for the eu in 2030 in order to stay on track for the minus 2°c benchmark; a binding eu energy efficiency target of 40% by 2030; a binding target for the eu to produce at least 45% of final energy consumption from renewable sources by 2030; the importance of the eu playing an ambitious and central role at the conference by encouraging other parties to take effective measures to maintain compliance with the - 2°c target. i am voting in favour of the agreement because it provides for measures in particular on respect for local communities particularly vulnerable to adverse climatic conditions, on efforts to adapt to climate change, on the costs of inaction in developing countries and on funds to be allocated within the green climate fund to deal with natural disasters. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions.
in writing. ‒ climate change is a global threat to human societies and to the maintenance of biodiversity and terrestrial and marine ecosystems, causing loss of life and migration flows, as well as economic, environmental and social damage. this phenomenon must be addressed at international level. a global, ambitious and legally binding agreement is an important step in the process of combating climate change and the threats it poses, and i therefore vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, this report continues the failed approach of emphasising new global funding instruments, emphasising recognition of 'climate refugee' status and, in general, short-sighted eu climate policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution entitled 'towards a new international climate agreement in paris', adopted in view of the 21st conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change (cop21), because i believe that at a crucial event it is crucial for the european parliament to reiterate the value of a final agreement in paris. the eu is very much involved in the negotiations and has already made its contribution last march. it has taken a clear stance on commitments to a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in the eu by 2030. it is therefore a question of defending this position and committing ourselves to binding decisions. the european parliament believes that very important steps have been taken and that the objectives are moving in the right direction. however, they must be more ambitious, particularly in financial terms. i therefore hope that the paris agreement will be based on principles of equity and shared but differentiated responsibilities, based on respective capabilities and taking into account national circumstances, and will be a legally binding agreement and therefore able to provide a long-term response to the climate challenge for the coming decades.
in writing. we voted for the resolution containing the negotiating mandate for the european parliament delegation to the 21st meeting of the un convention of the parties, scheduled for early december in paris. the conference's goals include avoiding global warming of more than 2 degrees above pre-industrial temperatures. it is an ambitious goal, which involves a joint commitment by governments around the world to protect the environment and the climate. but our work only makes sense if we do it together with all the big players on the world stage and the main emitters of greenhouse gases, to defend our planet, without, however, penalizing our industries and their competitiveness. europe has always played a leading role in achieving these objectives and will once again play a leading role in enabling an ambitious agreement to be reached.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on the subject 'towards a new international climate agreement in paris'. a stable climate system is one of the greatest challenges in the fields of sustainable development and the world economy. the european union and its member states have committed themselves to the binding target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the eu by at least 40% by 2030. the aim of the report is to urge governments to implement concrete measures to combat climate change and to achieve a legally binding agreement in paris in 2015 to achieve this goal.
in writing. ‒ we are facing far-reaching and serious climate change. recognizing that this is one of the biggest challenges we face is the first step in moving in the right direction. as the honourable member points out, these objectives must aim at more ambitious and realistic results leading to greenhouse gas emission reductions of 50% by 2030 and increasing the share of renewable energy to 45% to achieve energy savings of 40%. in voting in favour of the report, i wanted to support the will to pursue an ambitious and effective policy which not only mobilises the instruments for climate and energy policy but also involves other key areas such as transport, research, innovation and trade or development cooperation. finally, a long-term response to the climate challenge must be provided, with the union and the member states working with institutions, ngos and other civil society actors to develop climate change mitigation initiatives.
in writing. ‒ climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity in the fields of sustainable development and the world economy. they require an urgent, responsible and comprehensive response, based on the solidarity of the international community. in approving this report, we intend to support the commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. the eu and its member states have jointly committed to a binding reduction target of at least 40% by 2030. these objectives are moving in the right direction, but they should be more ambitious. the forthcoming paris conference will be just the beginning of a dynamic and evolving process that will allow the international community to take corrective action to realign itself on the trajectory needed to keep temperature rise below 2°c. we therefore expect a global and legally binding outcome, which will have to pursue a lasting and dynamic objective to guide and strengthen action against climate change, beyond the initial contributions submitted by member states. we need a forward-looking and effective policy for an energy transition by 2050, mobilising not only the instruments of climate and energy policy but also involving other areas such as transport, research, innovation, trade and development cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the socioeconomic metabolism of modern societies has produced numerous phenomena of environmental degradation. it was not until the late 1970's that the international community began to worry about the consequences of over-exploitation of resources. centuries of intensive and often uncontrolled exploitation, due to the inability of human society to combine environmental and developmental reasons, have produced many irreversible damages. the consequences are plain to see, and are particularly evident in the phenomenon of global warming, which is causing the global average temperatures of the air and the oceans to rise, snow and ice to melt widely and the resulting rise in sea levels. sustainable development is therefore the key challenge of the 21st century and requires that the principles of environmental sustainability be taken into account in all sectoral policies. this action must be carried out from the local level, with a constant effort to internationalize awareness of environmental problems in order to take the environmental issue to the global scale. the paris conference is an opportunity to take corrective action and to align ourselves with the european and un objectives of protecting the environment.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, in view of the forthcoming climate conference in paris next december and the work of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, of which i am a member, i would like to see a global commitment to reducing emissions and a good capacity to adapt to climate change. i therefore vote in favour and i urge the house to do the same.
in writing. ‒ environmental protection also requires compliance with the kyoto protocol and the international agreements signed. the latter must be the cornerstones of europe's future development. the aim of our policies in the various sectors involved should be to bring the interests of industry into line with environmental protection. the eu's policy on global warming needs binding and concrete measures. the paris conference is a crucial step towards tackling climate change, and it is not just a matter of 'trying to do something' but of taking concrete decisions. in my vote in favour today, i hope that an international agreement will be reached quickly, including ambitious and binding targets for emission reductions and energy efficiency and for the use of renewable energy sources by 2030. the eu must continue to lead the way in order to keep global warming below 2°c and to help cut global carbon emissions by 40% to 70% by 2050. these ambitious goals require a great deal of effort in all regions of the world, and the eu certainly cannot stand by and watch.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the achievement of a new international climate agreement because i believe that the european union must urgently address the problem of climate change, which has serious negative effects on the environment, the economy and societies. at the same time, we must ensure the right balance between environment and industrial policies and, above all, create a balanced international competition, where it is not just european industry that is taking on the fight against climate change. member states must reach an international agreement setting out concrete objectives and measures to combat the consequences of global warming.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i believe that the eu's environmental and climate policies are a complete failure, also because of an overly unilateral approach which leads to excessive costs and constraints being imposed on european industries in the name of protecting the environment, while the call for third countries to adapt to the same environmental standards is in serious danger of being a dead letter once again.
in writing. ‒ the un climate change conference in paris at the end of the year (cop21) will be tasked with reaching a legally binding and universal climate agreement, with the aim of keeping the temperature rise below 2°c. climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity in the areas of sustainable development, health and the global economy. the european union is leading global action on climate change, committing itself to a truly significant reduction in its greenhouse gas emissions. i have decided, however, to abstain from the final vote on the report because i consider the objectives proposed today to be too ambitious and unrealistic. i also believe that climate change requires an urgent, responsible and global response, based on the solidarity of the entire international community and not just the european one.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report based on the commission communication 'addressing global climate change beyond 2020' in view of the 21st session of the conference of the parties to the kyoto protocol (unfccc cop21). i believe that the 2015 protocol should be an ambitious, global, legally binding agreement, aimed at phasing out global carbon emissions by 2050. i also support the objective of achieving a 50% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions within the european union by 2030 compared to the previous 1990 levels. i also believe that, within the same year, the eu should aim to improve energy efficiency by 40% and produce at least 45% of its energy from renewable sources. the european union must play an ambitious and central role at the paris conference in december 2015, in order to engage other international actors to take effective action in line with the -2°c target.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take this opportunity to emphasize one thing. we often find ourselves discussing urgent matters on thursday mornings, and in this case we will have a cut of even more than half an hour. i agree with what mr rübig said, but i would point out that urgent matters are often not taken too seriously because of the absence of members in the chamber and the absence of adequate time to discuss them. would it not be better to move them all to the mini-plenaries in brussels? i make this request and i hope that the bureau will take note of it and consider it.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the luxleaks scandal has unfortunately done little to change a totally unfair and shameful system. it is from situations like this that we understand how, within europe, the member states still try to profit behind the backs of their european partners, to the benefit of the big multinationals, who are the only ones who really benefit from this absurd race for tax breaks. the text we are discussing today, which is already unsatisfactory in itself, was in fact overridden by an even worse agreement reached by the council at the beginning of the month. not only is there no public access to documents, as is necessary and proper, but the member states have decided to limit the automatic exchange of information to crossborder agreements, delaying the entry into force of these rules and throwing everything that has happened in the past into oblivion. the european countries have no desire to really solve the problem and prefer to attract multinationals by making them pay ridiculous taxes. the cost is obviously borne by the citizens, who are always and only asked to make sacrifices.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have repeatedly appealed to the principles of transparency, consistency and the protection of savings to remain the basis of any economic reform. and we know just how useful the promotion of the exchange of information can be in countering crossborder tax evasion. unfortunately, in the area of tax rulings, the principle of cooperation and exchange of tax data between member states is not yet fully applied, which implies prior information on tax regimes and the calculation of taxes on citizens. the exchange of information is too limited and the effects are very serious because of the proliferation of harmful tax competition, which exploits precisely this divergence and delay in information. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the obligation to provide information on rulings issued in the previous ten years must be retroactive and that greater clarity and effectiveness should be applied. it is also necessary to restore confidence in tax matters and the administrative cooperation tasks assigned to the member states cannot be abolished.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 27 october, at 1 p.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. harmful tax competition and crossborder tax avoidance are unacceptable practices that the european institutions must tackle in order to build a model of union that is more fair and supportive of all citizens of the member states. it is unacceptable that there should be tax planning between the member states of the union with market players in order to create competitive disadvantages between the member states themselves. the report on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the tax field is therefore the way forward to resolve some of these problems by building stronger european standards in tax matters. the commission notes that the tax ruling is not a tax ruling for the purposes of article 107 (1) tfeu. the commission notes that the tax rulings were not intended to provide legal certainty to taxpayers, but instead were intended to provide legal certainty to taxpayers. for this reason, parliament has been strong in this area, strengthening the text on a number of points, such as the frequency of information exchange and the information to be provided, and extending the scope also to advance tax rulings and price-setting agreements.
the commission notes that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality as regards the application of the principle of proportionality to the aid scheme.
i would like to thank mrs collin-langen, the chairman of the committee and the other members who have worked on this for many months. it was essential that europe should change the rules that affect not only the tourism sector but even more so the people who decide in their lives to take part in trips, and sometimes they do so for leisure and sometimes they do so even for work. a great deal has changed in the last 25 years, starting with the new services offered online, and the lack of legal certainty, as andreas schwab pointed out recently, has created damage for users. the people who have been penalized have always been the people and the consumers who have decided to move for the reasons i remembered earlier. we have now extended the scope of assisted tourism services and this is an important step forward. we have excluded from the directive specific areas with a positive compromise such as the issue of business travel or packages put together by non-profit associations which do so without a profit motive. the text has also been significantly improved with regard to contractual and pre-contractual information, and i consider this to be the heart of the measure. people and users are strong when they know, when they have the opportunity to know and when, on the basis of knowledge, they can eventually resort to a third judgment that is based on elements of certainty that we did not have before. there you go. consumer rights are a big problem for europe. i believe that this directive, on a specific subject, has made some progress in the right direction. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are properly transposed and applied. but this is a task for each country.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the updating of the 1990 directive on all-inclusive travel, holidays and tours is in response to the demands of the tourist industry and consumer organizations. it is necessary to revise some important provisions of the directive which, due to their obsolescence, do not correspond to the needs of a globalised market and create unnecessary obstacles to the market, such as the obligation to provide information on brochures and the inclusion of business trips operated by specialised agencies. the key principles on which the legislation must be based are, in my view, therefore, the principles of increasing choice, lowering prices for consumers and removing barriers to cross-border trade, to the benefit of businesses in the sector as well. furthermore, the legal fragmentation of legislation not harmonised by the member states also generates additional costs for businesses wishing to operate across borders due to the lowering of the level of consumer protection. finally, the directive should be revised in order to improve the functioning of the internal tourism market and to ensure fair competition and consumer protection, including through the imposition of appropriate guarantees for the reimbursement of advances and the repatriation of travellers in the event of insolvency.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 27 october, at 1 p.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by marietje schaake, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment (com(2014)0001 - c7-0014/2014 - 2014/0005 ((cod)) (a8-0267/2015).
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too welcome this legislative report. i thank the rapporteur. this is the latest version of one of the greatest successes of the union's trade policy, a regulation banning the sale of instruments for torture or capital punishment. the previous law needed to be modernised to meet the challenges of new materials, new technologies, and to fill the gaps left by the dual-use regulation. when the new regulation comes into force, there will be tighter controls, because in 2015 it is not possible to tolerate that tools for torture are for sale online or in the exhibition halls in europe. the rules of procedure were widely accepted in committee and for this i thank not only the rapporteur but also my colleagues in the shadow committee. the five star movement is at the forefront of the fight for respect for human rights and life in the world and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we will support this report unreservedly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative intervention which the commission has proposed to improve the existing regulation on goods which can be used for the purpose of inflicting torture and corporal punishment up to the death penalty is a step forward which parliament can only welcome, and we have worked in a constructive spirit to make further progress precisely for this reason. the new trade strategy which the commission presented a few days ago emphasizes the need to link economic and value aspects of our relations with our trading partners, both in bilateral and multilateral negotiations. and this initiative is a concrete example of that. obviously, this is only a small step if we look at the overall picture, but we are convinced that even through small steps it is possible to be the creator and protagonist of big changes. specifically, we are in favour of including an annex to the regulation which would better specify which goods should be subject to controls and possible bans, and we welcome the introduction of a general eu authorisation for exports to those countries which have not so far proved to be above reproach in this respect. we also take this opportunity to give strong support to the commission in its willingness, which we thank the commissioner for expressing, not to stop at this regulation but to continue in all the necessary places the work of persuasion necessary to prevent corporal punishment and torture from being accepted in too many countries in the world even before they are practised.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe must reiterate its leading role in the fight for the abolition of the death penalty and for a moratorium on executions throughout the world. but it is also necessary that member countries are not involved in the trade in goods which could be used for the death penalty, for torture and for practices which violate human rights, such as cruel, inhuman and degrading punishment. we must preserve the absolute prohibition of torture and ill-treatment laid down in the charter of fundamental rights. we must do so so as not to become accomplices of those who still administer these heinous punishments. this requires a stronger ban on all exports or imports of goods that could be used to impose cruel punishments and increased monitoring of export authorisations for goods that could be used for such purposes. europe is a place free from the death penalty, but it must also be a place free from torture and other inhuman and degrading practices, and the member states must not be complicit in any way, even indirectly, in those who still inflict inhuman punishments around the world.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 27 october, at 1 p.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by mr györgy schöpflin, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the european citizens' initiative (2014/2257(ini)) (a8-0284/2015).
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr schöpflin, for his excellent work, for the fact that the report was adopted unanimously, and our shadow rapporteur, sylvia kaufmann, for her longstanding commitment to this subject. we have taken note with great pleasure of the commitment you have expressed on behalf of the commission, mr timmermans. but there is no doubt that these first three years have shown many difficulties in the practical operation of the initiative. i would like to stress that the procedure must be made clearer: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national registers, the establishment of a european register of companies, the establishment of a european register of companies, the establishment of a european register of companies, the establishment of a european register of companies, the establishment of a european register of companies, the establishment of a european register of companies, the establishment of a european register of companies, the establishment of a european register of companies, the establishment of a european register of companies, the establishment of a european register of companies, the establishment of a european register of companies, the establishment of a european register of companies, the establishment of a european register of companies, the establishment of a european register of companies, the establishment of a european register of companies, the establishment of a european register of companies, the establishment of a european register of companies, the establishment of a european register of companies, the establishment of a european register of companies, the establishment of a european register of companies, the establishment of a european register of companies, the establishment of a european register of companies, the establishment of a european register of companies, the establishment of a european register of companies, the establishment of a european register of companies, the european register of companies. secondly, we must make it easier to collect, and here we have proposed a whole series of points which, if accepted, can make it easier to collect and thus encourage citizens' initiatives: age, how they file, the time between registration and the start of collection, online signatures... it's a lot of things. but there is one crucial point, and that is the commission's proposal. and that is where we expect the commission to make a greater effort: i have a proposition. if there is a registration and there are signatures, there must be a proposal from the european institutions.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the union has discovered participatory democracy after a crisis: the irish vote against the treaty of nice. the citizens' initiative, now in the treaties, was a response to that crisis. today, the crisis has worsened and participatory democracy is dying. no initiative that gathered enough signatures was followed by legal action. the schöpflin report is not perfect, it does not allow for any amendments to the treaties, unfortunately, but it was unanimously adopted by the afco committee because it greatly facilitates the legal follow-up of initiatives. i ask this house not to vote for amendment no 4 to paragraph 30, which would make the ice a bow without arrows. i ask this especially of the socialists who have put it forward. the amendment requires the commission to propose a legislative act in favour of a successful eic, but only after a positive opinion has been delivered. so far 29 of the 49 initiatives have been accepted, 3 have been signed, only the one on the right to water has received a vague positive opinion, none has been followed up. commissioner malmström responded to the petitions against ttip by saying: "i do not receive my mandate from the european people". i would also like to know from you, mr timmermans, who at this stage has given the commission its mandate.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ice: one word, many expectations many expectations for the main instrument of direct democracy introduced by the treaty of lisbon, a fundamental pillar for the five star movement. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives, but only three have been declared admissible. this is due to bureaucratic difficulties and delays, lack of information, lack of uniformity between the member states, including the data collected, the correct identification of the legal basis. the report provides some important answers from a logistical point of view, and i congratulate the rapporteur, györgy schöpflin, but we must take more important steps, political steps. and the political steps are to resolve the conflict of interest of the commission, which is on the one hand the entity that has the legal check of eligibility and on the other the same entity that decides whether to follow up an ice, once it has completed its path. follow-up cannot be optional, it must be mandatory if we are to give credibility to the institutions and bring them closer to the citizens. their efforts, their thirst for democracy, cannot be frustrated. we must also save this will by allowing it to initiate a revision of the treaties through the ice. to break the eu's deadlock and give it new impetus: the people can do it, the citizens can do it, to give substance to the dream of the founding fathers - more than commissioner malmström's words!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the scale and complexity of the ebola epidemic, which has hit sierra leone, guinea and liberia hard since march 2014, raise important issues that place a great responsibility on the union in the international context, with a view to promoting the right to universal health care, especially in the light of the structural deficiencies in health and education in these countries. the crisis management has, however, shown several flaws and it is therefore all the more important that the union should now commit itself vigorously to development aid and support for the economic recovery of the three african countries. i particularly agree with the report that there should be a review of the programming of the european development fund for the three countries concerned: without structural support measures to ensure access to health and basic social services, the risk of future outbreaks would not be prevented.
in writing. the report highlights the important role played in the early months of the ebola crisis by the various humanitarian ngos, including msf, the red cross, emergency and others, who have demonstrated not only the ability to interpret the dire situation, but also to be the most effective and expert actors in operational terms, taking the fight against ebola to the front line. while ngos have shown themselves to be responsive and timely, international institutions and organisations have shown themselves to be ineffective, inadequate and slow in responding to the mobilization of aid, and the absence of the who and the lack of research and development in the fields of medicines, diagnostics and vaccines has caused millions of deaths. the report aims to consider the experience of the ebola virus as a lesson that can provide immediate eu responses in the future; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's health policy. the report also argues that strengthening national and regional health systems is an integral part of global health governance.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these are just some of the names of the towns in southern italy that, along with the city of benevento, were submerged by the calore river flooding on the nights of the 15th and 18th of this month. many small and medium-sized businesses have been completely destroyed by the flooding. the economy of these places is based mainly on agriculture, but now there will be no new crops for the next three or four years. these people had very little, yet they were able to withstand a crisis that is still going on there. now they don't even have that, so the population is literally on its knees. yet they have asked for nothing, they are facing this catastrophe with extreme pride and with commendable dignity. then i 'll do it for them: i ask this parliament and i will ask the commission to speed up the release of solidarity funds for natural disasters, because we have european citizens in extreme need here and we cannot waste precious time in helping them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you of the corruption case in rome in connection with the anas procurement scheme, which led to ten arrests in the last week for criminal association, vote-swapping and other alleged offences, and the case of the arrest of the vice-president of the lombardy region, the richest region in italy, for a healthcare bribery scheme. according to transparency international, italy is the last country in the european union (it is ranked 69th) in the overall ranking of the most corrupt countries in the world. here, in this field, europe can do a great deal: the commission has also been able to make a contribution to the crim committee of the last legislature, which is marking and tracing the main road. you can have a global anti-corruption report, a comprehensive strategy. common eu-wide legislative measures for whistleblowers can finally be invoked to protect those who rightly report those who are sucking up and draining public resources. the provocative agents essential to the eviction of criminals can be introduced throughout the continent. a common system of evaluation can be established. let us act, please, because countries like italy need to be pushed to do the right thing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, an entire province in southern italy, the sannio, was hit by unprecedented flooding which, like a tsunami, caused casualties and damage estimated at over one billion euros to infrastructure, agriculture, businesses and homes. this tragedy threatens to erase the economic fabric, the history and the future of these lands. i have seen firsthand the tragedy of the situation, visiting farms and industrial sites that have been completely destroyed. however, the tenacity with which the citizens are responding to this catastrophe should be a source of pride for the whole of europe, which must now work to provide concrete aid to the population and to the economic and productive fabric. the european institutions must work at a rapid pace to speed up the procedure which the italian government is now initiating for the immediate adoption of the solidarity fund, including advance payments. the exception to the automatic decommitment of resources should be allowed, so as to allow a delay in spending for the affected territories, which must also have the possibility of withdrawing from the stability pact. the sannio is not giving up but he needs help to start again: europe must play its part.
the agenda includes the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the committee on industry, research and energy on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down measures concerning access to the open internet and amending directive 2002/22/ec on universal service and users' rights relating to electronic communications networks and services and regulation (eu) no 531/2012 on roaming on public mobile communications networks within the union (10788/2/2015 - c8-0294/2015 - 2013/0309 ((cod)) (rapporteur: vera pilar del castillo) (a8-0300/2015).
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank everyone, and particularly rapporteur pilar del castillo vera, for their hard work on this file. we have come a long way since the commission proposed this legislation just over two years ago. it has been a bumpy road. i would like to thank this house, as it has only been possible to hold today’s landmark vote because of the european parliament. in april 2014, parliament showed that it can act decisively and quickly when the interests of the people, the open internet and the single market are at stake. today, i invite parliament to adopt this text on two key pillars in plenary so that consumers and businesses can benefit as soon as possible from common net neutrality rules and the abolition of roaming surcharges. they have been waiting a long time for this. adopting the telecommunications single market (tsm) regulation will be a major achievement for the digital single market. it will show europeans that the union can deliver tangible results. failure, of course, would have an opposite and demoralising effect. roaming surcharges will be significantly reduced from april next year and finally banned from 15 june 2017, subject to a fair use policy. this is a historic achievement, and we could not have done it without the leading role of parliament. many governments were initially reluctant until they heard the voice of their people and of the people’s representatives here. the package is faithful to parliament’s first reading position: there is a clear end—date for roaming surcharges and clear steps to be taken beforehand. there is still a lot to do for the abolition of surcharges to be sustainable throughout the european union. the wholesale roaming market has to be reviewed. the fair—use policies and sustainability mechanisms need to be defined. the commission has started to work on this. we are committed to making the abolition of roaming surcharges a reality. there is no justification for any further delay. adopting the tsm regulation will enshrine binding net neutrality rules into eu law for the first time ever. the regulation will create the individual and enforceable right for end users to access and distribute internet content and services of their choice. the net neutrality provisions also lay down rules on non-discriminatory traffic management and on end—users’ free choice of content, applications and services. these provisions cannot be circumvented through commercial agreements and practices. common rules on net neutrality mean that internet access providers cannot pick winners or losers on the internet or decide which content and services are available. they mean that the freedom of europeans to access or distribute internet content will not depend on the country where they are resident. this will increase consumer choice and competition, and will strengthen the digital single market. national authorities will be required to monitor market developments. they will have the powers and the obligation to assess traffic management and commercial practices and agreements, including pricing practices like zero rating. since this is a regulation, the rules are directly enforceable before national courts. the rules also give the necessary certainty for internet access providers and providers of content and applications to offer specialised services with quality requirements. adopting the tsm regulation will help to sustain continued network and service innovation. that will benefit both european businesses and consumers. let me turn now to radio spectrum. i welcomed parliament’s efforts to include the spectrum provisions in our original tsm proposal. these could not be retained because of the lack of council support at that stage. but the need to solve these issues remains, and i rely on parliament’s continuous support in the future. we have already started working on our telecoms review and look forward to close cooperation with this house. we plan to present an ambitious proposal by the middle of next year. i therefore welcome the call for priority to be given to a coordinated framework for spectrum assignment to boost long-term infrastructure investments. parliament now has the deal in its hands. it is a good deal, for europe and europeans. i urge members to vote for it.
i have to say that as a representative of the socialist and democratic group i have fought very hard, i have negotiated very hard, with the support of my group, to achieve ambitious results. that was our goal, as ambitious as the first reading was, and i remember our shadow rapporteur, catherine trautmann, who did a great job. i think the result we have achieved is very good. i think we have made a step forward in the integration of telecommunications markets towards a single market by having two points of reference: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. as far as the citizen is concerned, i can only say one thing, which our group has been pursuing for years: the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the cost of roaming. mr commissioner, vice-president, i am addressing myself to you. we will achieve the objective of bringing the end of roaming into force in 2017 if the commission starts immediately to review the wholesale market. we will not accept an alibi from this point of view. we cannot be told by the end of 2017 that the market review is not over, because that is not possible. we know now that it is a precondition, we work to overcome it. second thing: the net neutrality. we have here reconciled the interests of the citizens with the need to make the system grow. i want to make it clear - and it has been said before - that there is no legislative system in europe which affirms these principles. many people tell us about the united states, where there is a more advanced address. i would remind my colleagues who always mention the united states that there is a decision of a federal committee, not a legislative body, so a decision that can always change. in europe, however, only two countries, the netherlands and slovenia, have advanced legislation, while the other 26 do not. there are important legislative principles that affirm net neutrality. it's not a definition, but all the elements are there: no to discrimination, and so on. they're very clear. but here too our laws are good and must be enforced. i ask you to ensure that the national authorities are equipped to monitor and control this system, and that the states have sanctions, otherwise our good principles will not be implemented. there is one point for us to take up again, and that is the zero rating, on which we will already be pressing the commission. we will be with you on the rest of the spectrum and other items you have mentioned, because these are objectives we have been pursuing for some time. that is why i too believe, as you said, that this is an opportunity not to be missed. this regulation must be adopted without amendments and a whole new system must be put into effect immediately.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today could have been a great day, the day when we could have completely and truly abolished roaming charges, making europe a truly connected continent, truly projected into the 21st century. we have, however, conceded in the negotiations not only to a delayed and conditional abolition of roaming, but also to the fact that telecommunications companies will be able to pass on the lost profits to the majority of europeans, even those who do not know what roaming is, to those who cannot use it because they cannot travel abroad, and who are increasingly numerous on a continent suffering from the crisis. yes, fellas, it could have been a great day! instead, we have traded a shameless abolition of roaming for the lack of a clear and undeniable definition of net neutrality, with insidious repercussions for those who may not use roaming, but use the internet in their own country and use it often every day. these are a growing part of us european citizens. and yet, ladies and gentlemen, despite all this, all is not lost. we still have time to remember this vote as a historic vote, we still have time to enshrine net neutrality in europe and make this a day of celebration. let's hear it for tim berners-lee, the inventor of the world wide web! today, we can still safeguard this extraordinary global public space, this immaterial commons, this extraordinary engine of innovation, knowledge, equality and opportunity for a growing part of humanity. the online world is watching and judging us, and europe cannot be left behind in the world. let us not allow it to dry up, let us not miss this unique opportunity to say no to new inequalities, new inequalities, privileged lanes even in the virtual world. colleagues, no one must ever be left behind! we press that button conscientiously! let's vote for net neutrality!
there was obviously a technical problem, because there was a question from a member of parliament to mr virkkunen. i asked mr virkkunen whether he would accept the question, but unfortunately there was no answer, and then mrs kammerevert spoke. then mr rohde asked for the floor, and i was told that i had to ask mr tošenovský. but there's obviously been a misunderstanding. and so we proceed calmly with the intervention of mr kallas.
unfortunately, there are some communication problems this morning, because not only have there been some problems with interpretation, but there are also obviously some technical problems, so that we now see mr reda on the screen, and according to the services of parliament, mr lópez bermejo is speaking. i now turn to the list of services of the presidency and give the floor to mr lópez bermejo for a minute.
the blue card instrument can be used, and we said at the beginning of the sitting that we would use it in the debate after the speeches by the political groups. we also said that because of the timing of the debate, which must be concluded by 10.00 a.m. because it is a sitting in which there will be votes in the late morning, we need to accept a blue card for each speaker. these are the rules we have set ourselves at the beginning of this debate and which are in accordance with the rules of procedure of this parliament. if you wish to ask the speaker a question, you may do so. for example, mr grapini has asked to ask mr reda a question if he agrees. i have a question for mr grapini.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the agreement we reached as the european parliament with the council on the single market in telecommunications, we have, in my view, settled for 'a little is better than nothing'. that's the wrong approach. we 're playing with words: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we talk about roaming, which has already been postponed too far, we are in fact allowing operators to shower these extra costs on unwitting users. we have even given up on the definition of net neutrality, and so we are again giving operators the ability to control the flow of information. let's make sure today, with the vote, that we don't miss yet another opportunity to have a free, accessible and neutral internet.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, as always, when we finally approve a legislative text, we ask ourselves whether it is a step forward for europe. as always, the compromise reached in the eternal quarrel with the council may not satisfy. in this case, there's no doubt. the text which i hope we will adopt with conviction strengthens the rights of european consumers, creates the conditions to make our continent a freer and more inclusive space. this is all the more important because it is a strategic sector, telecommunications, which can be to europe today what coal and steel were at the beginning of the integration process. the affirmation of the principle of net neutrality and the final abolition of roaming charges are two important achievements. for a europe which must relaunch the single market as the engine of its development and growth and define a new development model based on knowledge and innovation, the creation of a european communications and digital area appears to be a necessary condition for achieving its future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unlike mrs kammerevert, who spoke personally earlier, i would like to announce that i will vote in favour of this regulation, together with other s&d colleagues in the culture committee, because it is the result of difficult negotiations lasting three months and because, although we would have liked to have more certainty, for the first time we have to say that binding net neutrality rules will be established in europe, which will be enshrined in the 28 national legal systems and will oblige internet service providers in the european union to treat network traffic fairly, without discrimination, interference or limits. the national regulatory authorities will also have to fully implement the proposal with additional powers and will also monitor discriminatory practices, such as zero rating. sanctions will also be imposed, and this seems to us to be a very significant step forward, together with the end of the additional roaming charges in june 2017. so i think it's welcome as an important step forward.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, tuesday 27 october, at 1 p.m. i am sorry for some technical and organizational mishaps that have occurred. i leave the presidency to president martin schulz. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
i cannot hide my concern at the growing divisive and disintegrating impulses in the european union. i am not in favour of the drinkers who are in a hurry to mourn the union, but i am alarmed and we are alarmed by the attitude of all the 'anti's': anti-global, anti-islam, anti-israel, anti-russia, anti-immigrant, anti-stepmother europe, all of the "anti" that is there. these movements could have a common slogan, paraphrasing the great antonio de curtis (toto, in art): "i'm against it no matter what". but i think the best way to fight disruptive urges is to do things. europe will have won when it succeeds, as president juncker did last sunday, in moving forward with concrete proposals with regard to the situation in the balkan countries. europe will have won when it can demonstrate the readiness of the european parliament, as president schulz has shown, to ensure speed in the decisions needed to deal with the emergency. but above all, europe will have won and will be able to prove that it is stronger than the viruses of nationalism and fear when it is able to give courageous and convincing answers. i appeal to all the pro-european forces in this parliament, regardless of their political position. today we must put our europeanism at the centre, because today the challenge is between those who want to destroy, by piling up rubble, and those who want to build, by giving new impetus and fresh life to the europeanist design. we must start by implementing the points that president juncker has outlined: the resettlement mechanism for refugees, combined with a hotspot system that makes the union's external borders more secure, confirms and defends schengen, defends european citizens not through nationalism and the return to national borders, which is not the solution but one of the problems. there is a need for greater coordination between the states, especially in the balkans, as decided at the summit last sunday. it is unacceptable that the rights of refugees are not respected - president juncker has said this - and that they are treated as an inhuman mass being tossed from one border to another. the most exposed countries should not be penalized financially. the refugee crisis is an exceptional circumstance within the meaning of the stability pact: i would like to ask the commission to continue with its recommendation to deduct from national budgets the expenditure incurred by the member states in managing the external borders. on turkey, we cannot leave ankara to deal with the effects of the syrian crisis alone. the implementation of the action plan for turkey must therefore be pursued swiftly. but it must be clear that we will not be writing a blank check to the turkish government. it is not incompatible with the implementation of the action plan with turkey and with progress in respect for human rights, freedom of information and respect for minorities. finally, as president tusk said, we are moving towards the valletta summit. for too long, a tacit exchange has governed relations between europe and africa: europe gives a few financial crumbs to african governments, which in turn slow down the flow of migrants. that logic is dead. we need a genuine political, cultural and economic partnership. the european union must invest in the prospect of an african renaissance. this means supporting african democracies to strengthen their institutions, fight corruption, invest in education and redistribute the fruits of growth equitably. there's a lot to do! all member states and all of us europeans must commit ourselves to doing more. we must commit ourselves to doing our part to solve this crisis, before it's too late, and to quote a great italian poet - excuse me for this nationalist version - as dante said: "here will our nobility be seen". (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. mr christoforou, i must say that your speech is very pleonastic, because i have said clearly and unequivocally that we will not accept a blank cheque from the turkish government. we want to implement the action plan, but at the same time we want to make progress on respect for human rights, freedom of information and respect for minorities. we therefore do not give up at all in defending our values, in implementing the ankara protocol and at the same time in wanting to help turkey, in not leaving it alone in the syrian crisis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while rome is arguing, sagunto is burning. that is what i was thinking of, when i compared the border war in the western balkans, the risk of the collapse of macedonia and serbia and schengen, the long discussions and the inadequate solutions of these months. there is a river of human despair, with only clothes and hope of surviving the 100,000 new redistributions in the face of 260,000 new transits in one month in croatia. and what do these conclusions say? they talk about integrated border management with a new frontex, a single border guard, the dismantling of criminal networks... small steps that are useful, with a big sword of damocles: the when. and then again: when will there be a common european asylum with legal access? when the promised redistribution is far from complete? when is the dublin review? when will there be a real change of course in our policies in africa and especially in syria? there is only one line, a miserable line, on the concrete efforts to address the root causes and support african socioeconomic development. what these efforts are, no one knows. while many others have been written to hail erdoğan and his regime as the best friend, to remind that the promised donations have not been delivered. verhofstadt is right: the real problem is not the race of political groups that weber mentioned. i 'll tell you what it is . the only way to achieve this is to create a single european party, the party of war, exploitation and inconsistency, the party of the commisioning of democracies. the worst party of all, the one you take. and while europe is arguing, the mediterranean and africa are burning, drowning, on our doorsteps. congratulations to the nobel for hypocrisy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as an italian i would like to point out that italy has been mentioned very little today and a little too much forgotten, and i would like to say that ours are really small skirmishes in the face of the enormous problem we are facing. i am deeply convinced of what president juncker said, that our resources are not unlimited. and that is why our solidarity cannot be unlimited. even if it is right, we must urgently address this urgency and we must put into practice all that has been promised. but whether those who say sealed borders win or whether unlimited solidarity wins, we will not take the problem seriously and europe will end up in disarray, because this is only one step of what we have to do: the immediate emergency. but there's the geopolitical problem: if we look at the routes, if we look at where they start, we understand that we have to stabilize and we have to work to make sure that migrants are able to live in their places of origin. we must ensure assistance and stability. we must prevent the systematic depopulation of entire regions which are at risk of desertification, not only because of climate change, but are at risk of cultural desertification. culture is the big absent. so i want to bring it back to this house in the words of a great italian, pier paolo pasolini, who in the 1960s was a prophet and spoke of "ali with the blue eyes": "there, the blue-eyed ali will descend from algiers in sailing and rowing ships, with millions of men, landing at croton or palms in millions, dressed in rags". it was the vision of a great italian man in the 1960s, but it seems to be the description of what is happening today. we must give serious, true, profound and lasting answers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i start with the words of president juncker, who told us that 'the problems of some are the problems of others'. it's the basic principle of every unit, of every community, and i think that's true in life as well as in institutions. europe will only stand if it is built on this foundation of solidarity. there is no other way, because today the problems of refugees divide us, tomorrow they will be different, if the approach is not united. i come from a country which has been left alone for too long to make the same mistake today towards slovenia, towards greece, towards other countries. and i know that the tide of people who are in the mud of the balkan land routes today is the same as the tide that has been for hours, for days, under the scorching mediterranean sun. we therefore ask the council, president tusk, we ask you, in your leadership role, and we ask the commission to do all that is necessary, step by step, action by action, to do concretely, to give concretely the answers. but we also have to get to the root of the problem. as my group leader pittella said, we need to change the paradigm with africa: the african union, the african countries and the gulf countries must be called upon to share responsibility. if the destabilization is global, the response must also be global.
in writing. i would like to confirm my support for the commission's initiative, particularly in view of the concrete and operational measures it is endeavouring to put in place despite the well-known difficulties in dialogue between member states. it is important to put into practice immediately the 17 points of the plan drawn up on sunday at the meeting of the leaders of the member states concerned by the balkan route, to provide for the creation of additional crisis and reception points, especially in view of the approaching winter and the increasingly imminent risk of a humanitarian catastrophe, and to encourage the linkage and constant exchange of information between the states. it is of course necessary to continue with relocation and a fair sharing of responsibilities, including financial ones, throughout the union. we welcome the fact that the efforts made by certain countries, including italy, to deal with the migration emergency are finally being recognised, also with a view to greater flexibility in relation to the constraints imposed by the stability pact. we are looking particularly closely at the next valletta summit. the dialogue with african heads of state and government may provide important signals of a finally perspective approach to the issue.
in writing. ‒ the siekierski report is shared and balanced. the aim of the text is to bring existing legislation into line with the legal basis provided by the treaty of lisbon. that is why i have decided to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that, in the context of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, it is important to repeal all those acts which, because they have been taken over by subsequent acts or because they are temporary, have become obsolete. both council directive 76/621/eec and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 on the common agricultural policy fall into this category and i therefore believe that they should be repealed.
in writing. - i vote for it. it is simply a matter of aligning the legal basis.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing council directive 76/621/eec and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 on the common agricultural policy, which have exhausted their effects but are still only technically in force. in accordance with the principle of 'better lawmaking', we must update union law and reduce its volume by repealing acts which are no longer applicable because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts or because they were temporary in nature.
in writing. ‒ the report by mr czesław adam siekierski seeks to repeal council directive 76/621/eec and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 on the common agricultural policy because their content, which is sometimes provisional, has been taken up by subsequent acts. since it is necessary to update european union law and reduce its volume by repealing acts that are no longer applied in order to improve its transparency and certainty in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing council directive 76/621/eec on the fixing of maximum levels of erucic acid in oils and fats intended for human consumption and in foodstuffs containing added oils or fats and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 on a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry.
in writing. ‒ president juncker has made better regulation his main topic since taking office. a shared objective, especially for a europe that is increasingly perceived as a collection of shackles and fetters rather than as an institution that stands alongside citizens and businesses to help them improve their conditions. in this context, it is essential to agree to the proposal to abolish certain obsolete acts, provided that we do not fall back into a situation of a legal vacuum or the abolition of protections and rights. i have therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of repealing council directive 76/621/eec and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 on the common agricultural policy, because some legal acts adopted in recent decades have become irrelevant. this was because their content was taken up in subsequent acts or because they were of a temporary nature. in this respect, in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, i am firmly convinced that it is necessary to update and reduce the volume of union law by repealing acts that are no longer applied in order to improve its transparency and certainty.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to repeal council directive 76/621/eec and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 on the common agricultural policy, based on article 43 (2) tfeu. some legal acts adopted have lost their relevance because they are temporary or because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts. the commission cannot repeal the acts listed in the proposal. the council and the european parliament have the power to do so under the ordinary legislative procedure. in the light of the position adopted by the european parliament on the repeal of two obsolete acts and the introduction of directive 76/621/eec on the fixing of the maximum level of erucic acid in oils and fats, i shall vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report, which is not complicated and is only a matter of aligning the legal base.
in writing. the following proposal aims at repealing certain legal acts which have become obsolete, either because they are temporary in nature or because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts. specifically, it aims to repeal council directive 76/621/eec, which has been incorporated into regulation (ec) no 1881/2006, which sets maximum levels for certain contaminants in foodstuffs. it also aims to repeal council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 which established a temporary scheme which remained in force only until the 2009/2010 marketing year. i decided to vote in favour because the removal from legislation of acts which no longer have any real effect is an essential part of the strategy of better regulation, which makes it possible to simplify the regulatory framework for the benefit of the operators in the sector and the citizens.
in writing. ‒ i support the draft legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing council directive 76/621/eec on the fixing of maximum levels of erucic acid in oils and fats intended for human consumption and in foodstuffs containing added oils or fats and council regulation no 320/2006 on a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry. improving the transparency of union law is an essential part of the strategy for better law-making. in this context, acts which no longer produce real effects should be deleted from existing legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation to repeal directive 76/621/eec and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006, as i believe that regulatory progress in this area is desirable.
in writing. ‒ in my view, ensuring the transparency and certainty of european legislation is one of the objectives of the union, in order to bring it ever closer to its citizens. that is why, in the light of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and, in full agreement with it, on the inclusion of article 114 tfeu as the legal basis of the regulation in question, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the 'better lawmaking' strategy, implemented by the european institutions, aims to repeal legislative acts that have exhausted their effects but are still technically in force. these acts are to be considered obsolete either because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts or because they were of a temporary nature. in this context, considering that the content of council directive 76/621/eec was incorporated into regulation (ec) no 1881/2006, whereas council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 was only established temporarily, i am in favour of their repeal in order to reduce the number of european regulations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the repeal of directive 76/621/eec and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006, as i agree that these acts are now obsolete and of no practical use and i am in favour of updating european legislation on agricultural policy to make the sector more efficient.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote, parliament is repealing council directive 76/621/eec and regulation (ec) no 320/2006. both of these acts have become obsolete as they no longer have any practical application. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the kofod report is well developed and shareable. the strengthening of the automatic exchange of information in tax matters to ensure that swiss legislation is in line with eu legislation, while respecting global oecd standards, should form the basis of the eu-switzerland relationship; that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i am convinced that the eu-switzerland agreement on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes represents a clear improvement on the 2004 agreement and an important step forward in the fight against tax avoidance and evasion.
in writing. - i vote for it. the agreement is intended to ensure that switzerland applies enhanced measures equivalent to those of the eu directive as updated in march 2014 and that it complies with the exchange of financial account information promoted by the 2014 oecd standards.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the agreement on the automatic exchange of tax information between the eu and switzerland, which will finally make it possible to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. the agreement will allow the eu and switzerland to automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of their residents from 2018 onwards, in order to tackle any concealment of capital and tax evasion activities. the exchange of information will cover not only income transactions such as interest and dividends, but also account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets, in line with the global standards promoted by the oecd in 2014 for the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes. although other similar agreements will be needed to define better the timing and modalities of the automatic exchange of information and to ensure the confidentiality and protection of personal data, the text provides very effective instruments and that is why i have decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the agreement should represent an important step forward in efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion. the aim is to deal with situations where a taxpayer seeks to conceal capital consisting of income or assets that are subject to tax evasion. although the proposals in mr kofod's report are of added value, i felt that more should be done on such an important subject. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. in view of the above, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement between the european union and switzerland on the automatic exchange of information in tax matters, signed on 27 may 2015. the agreement aims to ensure that switzerland complies with the eu administrative cooperation directive, as updated in march 2014, and with the automatic exchange of financial account information promoted by the 2014 oecd global standards. under the agreement, the eu and switzerland will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of their respective residents as of 2018. the aim is to deal with situations where a taxpayer seeks to conceal capital consisting of income or assets that are subject to tax evasion. the exchange of information concerns not only income such as interest and dividends, but also accounting balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. there are also provisions to limit the possibility for taxpayers to avoid being reported to the tax authorities by transferring assets or investing in financial products outside the scope of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because it represents an important step forward in efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. the agreement also aims to ensure that switzerland applies enhanced measures equivalent to those of the eu directive as updated in march 2014 (amending the administrative cooperation directive, 'dac2') and complies with the automatic exchange of financial account information promoted by the 2014 oecd global standards. finally, i agree with the rapporteur on the provisions designed to limit the possibility of taxpayers avoiding being reported to the tax authorities by transferring assets or investing in financial products outside the scope of the agreement. the exchange of information concerns not only income such as interest and dividends, but also accounting balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the automatic exchange of tax information signed by switzerland and the european union is an important milestone in terms of international tax cooperation. in fact, i believe it is correct that switzerland applies enhanced measures equivalent to those of the eu directive and that it complies with the automatic exchange of financial account information promoted by the 2014 oecd global standards in order to prevent taxpayers from attempting to conceal capital consisting of income or assets that are subject to tax evasion. i therefore support the proposal in question, which is an important agreement and represents a further step forward in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ this is the consultation of parliament on the eu-switzerland agreement on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. the agreement should represent an important step forward in efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion. the aim is to deal with situations where a taxpayer seeks to conceal capital consisting of income or assets that are subject to tax evasion. the rapporteur, in the econ committee, put forward some acceptable proposals on the automatic exchange of information, confidentiality and protection of personal data, arbitration in disputes, alignment with existing legislation and legislation which has entered into force. although the proposals have added value, i believe that more was needed. i also believe that parliament should not be consulted on such an important subject. that's why i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the automatic exchange of financial information is proving to be a key tool in combating both tax avoidance and tax evasion. i voted in favour of the resolution approving the amendment of the eu-switzerland agreement to bring it into line with recent developments in tax legislation. a clear and effective regulatory framework at european level, ensuring both full tax transparency and cooperation between tax administrations, is of paramount importance in order to ensure greater regulatory clarity and to reduce costs and administrative burdens for both tax administrations and economic operators.
in writing. ‒ the fight against tax havens and excessive tax competition is one of the main issues raised by the european parliament during its recent term of office. thanks to the continuous work of parliament, the commission was able to push for an agreement with switzerland last may. this agreement mainly concerns practices concerning the automatic exchange of information in tax matters, thus improving cooperation and compliance with international standards. in particular, the exchange of information concerns not only income from labour and capital but also sales of financial assets. this follows the principles of the 2014 oecd standards. for these reasons i voted in favour of this text. stressing the role of the european parliament as a protagonist in the european battles against aggressive tax planning for a more solidary and fairer union, especially in the field of taxation.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report to ensure that the automatic exchange of financial account information promoted by the 2014 oecd global standards between the eu and switzerland is respected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the eu-switzerland agreement on the automatic exchange of information in the financial sector, because from 2018 it will allow for the automatic exchange of information concerning bank accounts of residents of the eu countries and switzerland and will mark switzerland's alignment with oecd standards. the agreement is very important because it puts a definitive end to banking secrecy and will reduce tax evasion fuelled over time by those companies or individuals who hide their wealth in current accounts opened in swiss territory with the aim of avoiding paying taxes. it will make it possible to combat tax fraud and evasion, since the exchange includes not only profits, and specifically dividends and interest, but also current account balances and financial assets. however, certain financial products remain outside the agreement. this will allow taxpayers, even after 2018, to avoid having to declare to the tax authorities certain transfers of assets or investments in certain products excluded from the scope of the agreement. the european parliament has been working for years to promote greater transparency in tax matters. i hope, therefore, that its stimulus to the council will be even more effective in the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu-switzerland agreement on the exchange of financial information for tax purposes. this agreement represents a major step forward in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. our objective must be to fight those who try to hide capital. our priority must be to strengthen measures which respect the automatic exchange of information not only on income but also on the proceeds of the sale of financial assets. the agreement needs to be further strengthened. i hope that this path will be taken with other third countries through similar agreements in the future.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of this proposal for a council decision. the european union and switzerland signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of information in tax matters on 27 may 2015. this represents an important step forward in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion. under the agreement, the eu and switzerland will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of their respective residents as of 2018. i also believe that in negotiating future tax agreements with switzerland or with third countries, the commission should follow the proposals and guidelines set out by parliament and the council and contained in this proposal for a decision.
in writing. ‒ the eu-switzerland agreement on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes can be considered a key step towards tax justice in the fight against tax evasion. the agreement provides for the automatic exchange of information on the financial accounts of the european union and switzerland by their respective residents as from january 2018 and provides for switzerland to apply appropriate measures equivalent to those of the european union to combat tax evasion. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european union and switzerland signed an agreement on 27 may on the automatic exchange of information in the tax area, which aims to improve the conditions for ensuring compliance with international obligations. the ultimate aim of this agreement, which provides for the eu and switzerland to exchange information on the financial accounts of their respective residents automatically, is to make further progress in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. on the basis of the foregoing, i thought i should express my support for the report signed by mr kofod.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the conclusion of the eu-switzerland agreement on the automatic exchange of information, which aims to improve cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations. it represents an important step forward in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion, improving on the 2004 agreement which guaranteed the application of measures equivalent to those of the eu directive on taxation of savings income. the automatic exchange of information on the financial accounts of their respective residents will therefore take place as from 2018. we believe it is essential that switzerland applies strengthened measures and respects the automatic exchange of financial account data promoted by the oecd global standards. it will cover not only income such as interest and dividends but also account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. we share the rapporteur's view, however, that there is still room for improvement: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, we call for the date of its entry into force, 1 january 2017, as agreed by the parties, to be respected without further undue delay.
in writing. ‒ believing that the conclusion of this agreement with switzerland is of particular strategic interest to the european union in order to combat tax fraud and evasion, which unfortunately exacerbate the already critical economic conditions in some member states, and in line with the rapporteur's request to ensure that it enters into force by 2017, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ following the adoption of council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income, the eu signed an agreement with switzerland on 27 may 2015 on the automatic exchange of tax information. this agreement will allow the eu and switzerland to exchange automatically information on the financial accounts of their residents as of 2018. the exchange of information will include not only income from interest and dividends but also balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. the common objective is to be able to deal with situations where a taxpayer seeks to conceal capital consisting of income or assets that are subject to tax evasion. i believe that this agreement represents an important step forward in the fight against fraud.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement between the european union and switzerland on the automatic exchange of financial information to combat tax evasion. the agreement provides that, as of 2018, the european union and switzerland shall cooperate by exchanging information on the financial accounts of their residents.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text because it aims at greater cooperation in tax and administrative matters between the european union and switzerland.
in writing. ‒ the eu and switzerland signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of information in tax matters on 27 may 2015, aimed at improving cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations. i have decided to support the conclusion of the agreement as it represents an important step forward in the efforts being made to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. from 2018, the eu and switzerland will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of their respective residents, with the aim of addressing situations where a taxpayer seeks to conceal capital consisting of income or assets that are the subject of tax fraud.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of parliament's position on the agreement between the european union and switzerland on the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. the agreement provides for the automatic exchange, as of 2018, between the tax administrations of the member states and switzerland of financial information relating to their respective residents, in order to limit the possibilities for taxpayers to avoid reporting to the tax authorities by moving assets or investing in products in switzerland. by effectively ending eu citizens' banking secrecy in switzerland, the agreement marks an important milestone in the eu's fight against tax fraud and evasion. as switzerland remains a crucial player in the financial sector, we must seek to ensure the utmost transparency in our relations through enhanced tax cooperation at international level.
in writing. ‒ the agreement concluded with the swiss confederation marks the beginning of a new era of tax transparency and cooperation between states. it is essential to continue in this direction in order to limit and eliminate tax evasion and to make progress towards a fairer and more uniform taxation in europe. the amendment of the agreement is a positive development for european citizens and is an important step in the fight against tax fraud and in the fight for justice. every tax fraud involves the diversion of resources from sectors such as education, health, research and transport. parliament's support is a first step. it is now important to conclude similar agreements with other tax havens.
in writing. the european parliament was consulted on the eu-switzerland agreement on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. the agreement should represent an important step forward in efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion. the aim is to deal with situations where a taxpayer seeks to conceal capital consisting of income or assets that are subject to tax evasion. the rapporteur, mr jeppe kofod, has made some proposals which we can all agree with. in particular, it requested that automatic exchange of information be introduced, that more transparency and frequency be introduced in the exchange of information and that the planned entry into force on 1 january 2017 be respected. although the proposals have added value, we believe that more was needed. we believe it is of the utmost importance that the exchange of information be automatic, compulsory and above all public. the agreement between the commission and switzerland is still weak in this respect. it is essential that agreements such as these are based on transparency. the progress made so far is not enough in our view. we also regret that parliament has only been consulted on such an important subject. for these reasons, we abstained from voting in the chamber.
in writing. ‒ through this agreement, the european union and switzerland commit themselves, as of 2018, to a constant and automatic exchange of information on the financial accounts of their residents. the aim is to combat, through close cooperation, the concealment of capital consisting of income or assets resulting from tax evasion. the tax authorities of switzerland and the member states will thus be able to establish clearly and precisely the identity of taxpayers and to determine whether acts of tax evasion or avoidance have been committed by natural and legal persons with the support of financial institutions established in third countries. the eu-switzerland agreement on the exchange of financial information undoubtedly plays a major role in the strategy to combat and counter tax fraud and evasion. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ we voted today to consult parliament on the eu-switzerland agreement on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. the agreement should represent an important step forward in efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion. the aim is to deal with situations where a taxpayer seeks to conceal capital consisting of income or assets that are subject to tax evasion. the rapporteur, in the econ committee, put forward some acceptable proposals on the automatic exchange of information, confidentiality and protection of personal data, arbitration in disputes, alignment with existing legislation and its entry into force. however, although the proposals have added value, i believe that more needs to be done. i also regret that parliament is only consulted on such an important subject. for these reasons, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ while i am against the current mechanisms governing taxation of savings, i believe that the european commission's proposal to repeal the 2003 directive on taxation of savings income in order to maintain only the administrative cooperation directive, which can cover a wider range of cases, will avoid bureaucratic and management problems, and that is why i have wanted to support it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because, in the light of the adoption and entry into force of the new directive on this subject, the directive in question is, in the final analysis, superfluous. it is important for legal certainty that there should be no duplicates in the legal system, and this is even more important in tax matters.
in writing. - i vote for it. member states will not be required to apply the provisions of two different directives, avoiding the inconvenience and costs of dual data collection and reporting systems. i am also against the existing mechanisms for taxing savings and i think it would be useful to maintain only one reference legislation.
in writing. ‒ the report by colleague molly scott cato is about repealing the 2003 savings income taxation directive to facilitate the entry into force of the directive on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes, adopted as part of the march 2015 tax transparency package, which should apply from 1 january 2016. it is therefore a simple procedural vote which is not particularly critical. however, i have decided to abstain because it is important to proceed with caution in the event of the repeal of a directive which has been in force for several years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of repealing the directive on taxation of savings income. in 2003, the eu savings income taxation directive was adopted as a measure to ensure the payment of tax on savings income, and its provisions came into force in 2005. the revised directive was finally adopted in 2014 and should apply from 1 january 2016. in the meantime, the 2011 administrative cooperation directive was revised to align it with the oecd global standard for the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes and was adopted in 2014. it should also apply from 1 january 2016. the 2003 savings directive provides for the reporting of data on accrued interest on loans and similar products, while the administrative cooperation directive covers a much wider range of products. in the context of the fiscal transparency package of march 2015, the commission proposed to repeal the 2003 directive in order to avoid the application of both directives, thus avoiding the inconvenience caused by the dual data collection and reporting systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive by rapporteur molly scott cato on the repeal of the directive on taxation of savings income. the concerns about this directive are related to the fight against tax evasion and therefore to the need for fair taxation both at european and world level. all this in the context of international progress. i am in favour of the rapporteur's proposal, although i am well aware that it is important for the commission to continue to monitor the repeal process to ensure that no gaps are revealed, since it is risky to repeal a directive which has been in force for several years. i congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done, on examining the possible shortcomings of the repeal and on seeking the opinion of experts through detailed analysis. for these reasons, i vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the fight against tax evasion is a matter of great concern, both at european and global level. to ensure fair taxation in the european and global markets, the eu must be able to sign agreements to ensure compliance with tax rules and to formulate an effective control system to combat tax evasion. in this respect, i agree with the repeal of the 2003 savings income tax directive. the 2011 administrative cooperation directive, which will effectively replace the 2013 directive, has been revised on an ad hoc basis to comply with the oecd global standard for the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes. this change in the rules will therefore bring the rules more into line with the oecd global standard and avoid the inconvenience of duplicate data collection and reporting systems. however, i agree with the rapporteur that such repeal may create potential gaps and that, if they do arise, it is the commission's task to intervene, if necessary with legislative proposals, in order to ensure that those gaps are closed.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament resolution approves the commission's proposal to repeal the rules on taxation of savings income received in the form of interest payments. i voted in favour of this resolution because it aims to avoid multiple measures having the same scope, while respecting the principles of better regulation and legal certainty and to reduce bureaucratic and administrative burdens. in addition, the european parliament calls on the commission to submit a report on the effects of repeal, in particular with regard to possible legislative gaps.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report because we are against the existing mechanisms for taxing savings and we share the concerns of the rapporteur who rightly believes that it is useful to maintain a single reference legislation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a council directive repealing council directive 2003/48/ec. the repeal of the latter rule avoids the risk for member states of a double and burdensome reporting in tax and transnational tax matters. in 2003, the eu directive on taxation of savings income was adopted as a measure to ensure the payment of the relevant tax. in the meantime, the 2011 directive on administrative cooperation has been revised to align it with the oecd global standard for the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes. both require information on similar matters. it is therefore considered appropriate to repeal the 2003 directive in line with the commission's decision as amended and repealed by this parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on income from savings in the form of interest payments: the commission has also proposed that the directive on taxation of savings income be repealed. the purpose of the regulation is to respond to the need to increase the transparency of securities financing transactions concluded by all market participants, ensuring a level playing field. in order to ensure the effective implementation of the reporting of securities financing transactions, the regulation lays down stricter rules on disclosure to counterparties, considering that tax evasion and the need for fair taxation are issues of major importance at both national and european level.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the repeal of the 2003 eu directive on taxation of savings income. the 2003 savings tax directive provides for the reporting of data on accrued claims and interest, while the administrative cooperation directive applies to a wider range of products. the proposal for repeal was prompted by the need to avoid inconvenience for member states in applying the provisions of two directives and the consequent difficulty posed by the dual systems of data collection and reporting.
in writing. ‒ the fight against tax evasion and the need for fair taxation are a major concern, both at european and global level. although there is considerable progress at international level, it is still important to proceed with great caution in the event of the repeal of an existing directive which has been complied with for several years. it is true that it is essential to avoid duplication of legislation, unnecessary burdens on member states or the delay in the entry into force of the systems provided for under the administrative cooperation directive. however, we cannot but have some serious concerns about the repeal of the 2003 savings income tax directive, as the financial products covered by it are not the same as those covered by the administrative cooperation directive. we therefore welcome this report, but ask the commission to continue to monitor the repeal process to ensure that no further gaps are revealed, and to report to parliament once all the member states have drawn up the list of low-risk national accounts. we therefore urge the commission to intervene, if necessary, with appropriate legislative proposals to ensure that these gaps are closed immediately.
in writing. ‒ i reiterate my conviction that the union must become ever more deeply involved in the fight against tax evasion and fraud, and i share the rapporteur's concerns about the possible regulatory gaps that such a repeal might entail. i also support the three amendments proposed to close these loopholes. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ in 2003, the council adopted a directive on the taxation of savings income received in the form of interest payments. following the first review of the savings directive in november 2008, the commission proposed a number of amendments to close the existing loopholes and to prevent tax evasion more effectively. in the meantime, the 2011 administrative cooperation directive was revised to align it with the global standard provided by the oecd (organisation for economic cooperation and development) on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes, and was adopted in 2014. the commission therefore proposed to repeal the 2003 directive as part of the tax transparency package of march 2015. i am voting in favour of this report because it ensures that a single standard applies to the automatic exchange of information within the eu, thus avoiding possible errors due to the application of double data collection and reporting systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission's proposal to repeal the directive on taxation of savings income in order to avoid uncertainties in the application of the existing tax provisions by the member states. the 2011 directive on administrative cooperation, which has been adapted to the requirements of the oecd global criteria for the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes, will enter into force on 1 january 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i share the aims of the text in terms of simplifying legislation.
in writing. ‒ in 2003, a directive was adopted regulating the taxation of savings income and establishing the obligation to report information on interest accrued on loans or similar. this directive applies to many bilateral agreements between eu member states and third countries. however, the commission is renegotiating a number of bilateral agreements on the same subject with a number of third countries, including switzerland, andorra, liechtenstein, monaco and san marino, with the aim of making stricter compliance with the global standards established by the oecd for the automatic exchange of information. the commission has therefore proposed to repeal the 2003 directive on taxation of savings income in order to avoid the formation of a double system of data collection and reporting. i therefore voted in favour, bearing in mind that the commission will have to intervene, including by means of legislative proposals, if there is a risk that the system will be circumvented.
in writing. ‒ today's vote repealed the 2003 savings income tax directive to facilitate the entry into force of the directive on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes, adopted as part of the march 2015 tax transparency package, which is expected to apply from 1 january 2016. this repeal was proposed by the commission so that member states would not be obliged to apply the provisions of both directives, thus avoiding excessive administrative burdens and the inconvenience caused by the dual systems of data collection and reporting. it is therefore a procedural vote which is not particularly critical. however, i abstained, because i think it is important to proceed with extreme caution in the matter of repealing a directive which has been in force for many years.
in writing. ‒ the report by mrs flašíková beňová is balanced and free of criticism. if we are to combat international crime and terrorism effectively, the first step is to allow for a rapid and efficient exchange of information between the police forces of the member states. that is why i have voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because sweden has fulfilled all the conditions required by decision 2008/615/jha on the strengthening of crossborder cooperation, in particular in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime and on the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data, and therefore must be admitted to the programme.
in writing. - i vote for it. the aim is to improve crossborder police cooperation between member states. the authorities need to be able to exchange police information quickly and efficiently in order to effectively fight organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the draft council decision to start in sweden the automated exchange of fingerprint data, i.e. the images of fingerprints, palm prints and the models of these images which are stored and processed in an automated database. the provisions concern in particular the exchange of information in the context of major events and for the purpose of combating terrorism, as well as other forms of crossborder police cooperation. sweden has successfully completed the questionnaires on automated data exchange and has also completed the pilot with austria. in this way, the general provisions on data protection laid down in council decision 2008/615/jha have been fully implemented. therefore, in order to enable sweden to receive and transmit these types of data, i voted in favour of the project.
in writing. ‒ the file concerns sweden's authorisation to receive and supply personal data pursuant to council decision 2008/615/jha on the strengthening of crossborder cooperation, in particular in combating terrorism and crossborder crime. the council concluded that the country has fully implemented the necessary general data protection provisions and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i've decided to vote for the measure. the worrying proliferation of organised criminal groups capable of operating on a cross-border basis, together with the use of terrorism, obliges the european institutions to step up cooperation in the fight against such criminal phenomena. the exchange of sensitive information and data between the authorities and security forces of the member states is a key element in implementing an effective crime-fighting strategy. as sweden has implemented the general provisions on data protection, it is considered appropriate, in accordance with decision 2008/615/jha, to authorise sweden to receive and supply fingerprint data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution by ms monika flašíková beňová on the exchange of information and data from the fingerprinting system with sweden, as i consider it very important to step up crossborder cooperation, especially in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime. i think that cooperation between the various eu states is essential to prevent and combat certain dangers or problems that member states may be subject to.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the automated exchange of fingerprint data for sweden, as it aims to strengthen crossborder cooperation in the area of european law enforcement. in particular, sweden has acceded to the prüm decision on police cooperation in combating terrorism and crossborder crime. sweden has fully implemented the general provisions on the protection of personal data in its legal order and the council therefore proposes to authorise sweden to provide and receive personal data for investigative and judicial purposes in the fight against transnational crime. the approval of the automated data exchange is part of the european information exchange model (eixm), a useful legislative tool to promote security cooperation in the protection of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for the implementation of this council decision aims to authorise sweden to receive and supply personal data within the meaning of council decision 2008/615/jha, as from the date of entry into force of the decision. under the latter, on the strengthening of crossborder cooperation, in particular in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime, the provision of personal data provided under that decision may not take place until the general provisions on data protection have been implemented in the national law of the territories of the member states concerned by the transfer. on the basis of an overall assessment report, the council concluded that the three abovementioned countries have fully implemented the general provisions on data protection set out in chapter 6 of decision 2008/615/jha. for these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report for a better exchange of data and information.
in writing. the fingerprinting investigation is an activity aimed at personal identification and, although very complex, is one of the most effective in the field of forensic science. the purpose of this report is to strengthen crossborder police and judicial cooperation between the countries of the european union. for these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour of mrs beňová's work on the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data in sweden.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of the automated data exchange system in sweden. following an overall assessment by the council, sweden has implemented the general provisions on data protection under decision 2008/615/jha on the strengthening of cross-border cooperation. this ensures that sweden is able to receive and transmit fingerprint data.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour with a firm majority because i am sensitive to the debate, particularly current, on data protection and data exchange in europe. with special attention to the specific case of sweden and its needs, i appreciate the commitment of the institutions in this area and am confident in the development of their policies.
in writing. ‒ in an area of free movement of persons, the member states of the european union need to strengthen their cooperation in order to combat international terrorism, crossborder crime and irregular immigration more effectively. sweden has completed the questionnaire on data protection and the questionnaire on the exchange of dactyloscopic data and has successfully conducted a pilot experiment with austria, as provided for in decision 2008/615/jha on enhancing cross-border cooperation. therefore, having fully implemented the general provisions on data protection, the council hereby authorises sweden to receive and supply fingerprint data. my vote can only be in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the automated exchange of data in sweden because i believe that it is of fundamental importance for the member states' authorities responsible for international security to cooperate with each other through an increasingly timely and comprehensive exchange of information in order to combat terrorist activities and cross-border organised crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because greater cooperation between the member states of the european union makes it possible to fight international crime and terrorism more effectively. therefore, the competent authorities should be able to exchange information in a rapid and efficient manner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council implementing decision on the launch of the automated data exchange for fingerprinting in sweden for two reasons. first of all: i believe that crossborder cooperation is essential to strengthening the european union. secondly: i am convinced that terrorism and organised crime can only be defeated by joint action. of course, the european parliament and its libe committee will ensure that this exchange takes place in full respect of fundamental rights and freedoms. in fact, the right to the protection of one's personal data cannot be violated in the name of security.
in writing. ‒ the report by mrs flašíková beňová is balanced and acceptable. if the eu is to tackle international crime and terrorism effectively, the first step is to facilitate the exchange of information between the police forces of the member states. that is why i have voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because belgium has fulfilled all the conditions required by decision 2008/615/jha on the strengthening of crossborder cooperation, in particular in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime and on the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data, and must therefore be admitted to the programme.
in writing. - i vote for it. the aim is to improve crossborder police cooperation between member states. the authorities need to be able to exchange police information quickly and efficiently in order to effectively fight organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision to launch the automated data exchange system in belgium. we're talking about fingerprint images, palm prints, and the patterns of those images that are stored and processed in an automated database. today's vote commits us to strengthening crossborder cooperation between police and judicial authorities in the countries of the european union, with the aim of fighting terrorism and crossborder crime more effectively. belgium has successfully completed the questionnaires on automated data exchange, also piloting with france and luxembourg and fully implementing the general provisions on data protection laid down in council decision 2008/615/jha. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal in order to include belgium in the system for receiving and transmitting this information and data.
in writing. ‒ belgium has legislation on the protection of personal data which is considered to be suitable for the application of the provisions of council decision 2008/615/jha on the strengthening of crossborder cooperation. these are particularly important in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i've decided to vote for the measure. the worrying proliferation of organised criminal groups capable of operating on a cross-border basis, together with the use of terrorism, obliges the european institutions to step up cooperation in the fight against such criminal phenomena. the exchange of sensitive information and data between the authorities and security forces of the member states is a key element in implementing an effective crime-fighting strategy. since belgium has implemented the general provisions on data protection, it is considered appropriate, in accordance with decision 2008/615/jha, to authorise belgium to receive and supply fingerprint data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mrs monika flasikova benova on the project for the automation of the exchange of fingerprint data in belgium. i think it is important to stick to what is intended to be the european model of information exchange in the member states' group (eixm) and i think it is fundamental to implement the prüm decision on strengthening crossborder cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the exchange of personal data for the purpose of combating terrorism and crossborder crime is one of the objectives of the european union. belgium has implemented the general provisions on the protection of personal data in its national law and is one of the signatories to the prüm decision on cooperation between police forces and the exchange of fingerprint information. it is necessary to give full effect to that legislative act as soon as possible in order to facilitate and speed up the procedures for sending and receiving data between member states. the report is part of the european information exchange model (eixm) which provides for cross-border cooperation between police and investigative forces, while protecting the fundamental rights of european citizens. i agree with the adoption of the report, in order to effectively strengthen crossborder cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for the implementation of this council decision aims to authorise belgium to receive and supply personal data pursuant to council decision 2008/615/jha, as from the date of entry into force of the decision. under the latter, on the strengthening of crossborder cooperation, in particular in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime, the provision of personal data in the context of that decision may not take place until the general provisions on data protection have been implemented in the national law of the territories of the member states concerned by the transfer. on the basis of an overall assessment report, the council concluded that the three abovementioned countries have fully implemented the general provisions on data protection set out in chapter 6 of decision 2008/615/jha. for these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report for a better exchange of data and information.
in writing. i voted in favour of the work of mrs beňová on the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data in belgium. the purpose of fingerprinting is to identify individuals and is one of the most effective tools in the field of forensic science. this report therefore aims to strengthen crossborder cooperation between the police and the judiciary of the member states.
in writing. ‒ decision 2008/615/jha aims to strengthen crossborder cooperation between police and judicial authorities of the european union countries to combat terrorism and crossborder crime more effectively, with particular reference to the automated exchange of information, in the context of major events and for the purpose of combating terrorism, as well as other forms of crossborder police cooperation. belgium has fully implemented the data protection provisions referred to in that decision. for these reasons, i am in favour of my colleague's report.
in writing. ‒ in belgium, the terrorist threat became a reality when a jihadist cell was blocked by the police last winter. the regulation of the exchange of dactyloscopic data is clearly a priority and i do not hesitate to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the automated exchange of fingerprint data is intended to enhance the exchange of information between member states of the european union on fingerprints and genetic data (dna). the aim is to enable the dna profile of an individual to be compared with the profiles in the automated databases of the member states by linking these personal data through national contact points used in the fight against domestic and international terrorism. i am voting in favour of the council's decision to authorize belgium to carry out the automated exchange of fingerprint data to prevent terrorism, crime and illegal immigration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european council decision to authorise belgium to receive and transmit fingerprint data in order to counter the emergence of terrorist cells and activities on its territory. one of the fundamental tasks of the european union is to ensure the security of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i reiterate that i voted in favour of the draft council implementing decision on the launch, this time in belgium, of the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data, because i am convinced of the need for joint action in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, which operate at european level. i would stress again that the exchange of data must, however, be carried out in full respect of fundamental rights and freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the report by mrs flašíková beňová is balanced and acceptable. if the eu is to tackle international crime and terrorism effectively, the first step is to facilitate the exchange of information between the police forces of the member states. that is why i have voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because poland has fulfilled all the conditions required by decision 2008/615/jha on the strengthening of crossborder cooperation, in particular in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime and on the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data, and therefore must be admitted to the programme.
in writing. - i vote for it. the aim is to improve crossborder police cooperation between member states. the authorities need to be able to exchange police information quickly and efficiently in order to effectively fight organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision to launch the automated exchange of fingerprint data in poland, such as fingerprint images, palm prints, and the models of these images which are stored and processed in an automated database. the automated exchange of information between the police and judicial authorities of the european union is essential to strengthen crossborder cooperation between police and judicial authorities in the eu and thus to combat terrorism and crossborder crime more effectively. poland has successfully completed the questionnaires on automated data exchange, including a pilot with austria, fully implementing the general provisions on data protection laid down in council decision 2008/615/jha. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal in order to include poland in the system for receiving and transmitting this information and data.
in writing. ‒ the legislation of poland, like that of sweden and belgium, was also found to be suitable for the application of the provisions of council decision 2008/615/jha on the strengthening of crossborder cooperation in the field of automated data exchange for dactyloscopic data. this is an important cooperation measure, particularly in the fight against crossborder crime and terrorism. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i've decided to vote for the measure. the worrying proliferation of organised criminal groups capable of operating on a cross-border basis, together with the use of terrorism, obliges the european institutions to step up cooperation in the fight against such criminal phenomena. the exchange of sensitive information and data between the authorities and security forces of the member states is a key element in implementing an effective crime-fighting strategy. since poland has implemented the general provisions on data protection under decision 2008/615/jha, it is considered appropriate to authorise poland to receive and supply fingerprint data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by ms monika flašíková beňová on the authorisation of the exchange of dactyloscopic data in poland because i believe strongly in cooperation within the eu and between member states. only by continuously updating the details of each member state can we promote healthy and clean growth throughout the european union. for this reason, and also to combat acts of terrorism and other fraud, i think it is important to share data.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on the launch of the automated data exchange for fingerprinting in poland. the transmission and reception of data between member states for the purpose of combating terrorist offences and cross-border crime should be enhanced in order to facilitate a rapid and effective exchange of information. poland has implemented the provisions on the protection of personal data in its national law and therefore the council proposes to authorise poland to send and receive data, promoting cooperation between the police and investigative forces of the eu countries. this action is part of the european information exchange model (eixm), which aims to promote cooperation in the field of security and protection of citizens of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for the implementation of this council decision aims to authorise poland to receive and supply personal data pursuant to council decision 2008/615/jha as from the date of entry into force of the decision. under the latter, on the strengthening of crossborder cooperation, in particular in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime, the provision of personal data in the context of that decision may not take place until the general provisions on data protection have been implemented in the national law of the territories of the member states concerned by the transfer. on the basis of an overall assessment report, the council concluded that the three abovementioned countries have fully implemented the general provisions on data protection set out in chapter 6 of decision 2008/615/jha. for these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report for a better exchange of data and information.
in writing. i voted in favour of the work of mrs beňová on the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data in poland. this report is in addition to those adopted today on belgium and sweden and will certainly make it possible to achieve better performance in the area of personal identification of criminals, in order to strengthen crossborder police and judicial cooperation between the countries of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report on the exchange of dactyloscopic data in poland. the council has assessed that the state has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection set out in decision 2008/615/jha. the purpose of this decision is to strengthen crossborder police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters between the countries of the european union by providing that the provision of personal data may not take place unless the general provisions on data protection have been implemented in the national legislation of the territories of the member states concerned by the transfer.
in writing. ‒ taking this opportunity to express my concern and participation in the conduct and results of the recent national elections in poland, i would like to reiterate my concern for security in europe and, in particular, in the eastern european countries, which are facing all the problems of the migration crisis with a strong impact. that is why i am voting in favour of the automatic exchange of dactyloscopic data.
in writing. ‒ to combat international crime and terrorism, the competent authorities need to be able to exchange police information, in particular dna profiles and fingerprints, quickly and efficiently. this exchange allows for a rapid identification of whether information on a particular person is recorded in the member states' databases. the launch in poland of procedures to ensure the automated exchange of data from the police is increasing the effectiveness of crossborder cooperation between european police forces in the fight against terrorist offences and illegal migration. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the european union's desire to strengthen crossborder cooperation between member states in order to combat organised crime and that is why i am voting in favour of the european council's decision to authorise poland to receive and supply fingerprint data. i believe that the exchange of information is a valuable tool for the police and control authorities to protect and guarantee the security of every european citizen.
in writing. ‒ i reiterate that i voted in favour of the draft council implementing decision on the launch, this time in poland, of the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data because, as i have already said in the case of sweden and belgium, i am convinced of the need for joint action in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, which operate at european level. but all this must be done in full respect for fundamental rights and freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of rejecting the collin-langen report on 'package holidays and linked tourism services'. the text is confusing and unclear, especially as regards the definition of 'related services'. the disastrous effects of european legislation voted too lightly, such as the services directive, are unfortunately in plain sight. i have therefore not supported this measure, the effects of which on professional categories such as tourist guides, mountain guides or ski instructors are unclear and potentially harmful.
in writing. - i vote to withdraw the proposal. the text is strongly unfavourable to tourist guides and other related categories such as mountain guides and ski instructors.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation for the second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of the european parliament and council directive on package travel and package-related travel services. tourism plays a major role in the union's economies and travel, holidays and package holidays represent a significant share of the tourism market. however, the market has undergone profound changes in recent years, as the internet has added to the traditional distribution channels, changing the offer of tourist services, making them increasingly personalised. many of these combinations are not covered by the framework provided for in directive 90/314/eec and it is essential to update it. the new directive not only extends protection to all recent developments in the sector, but also considerably increases transparency and strengthens legal certainty for travellers and traders. i have therefore decided to approve this text.
in writing. ‒ the european commission launched an initiative in 2010 called 'europe, the world's number one tourist destination' to give tourism a new impetus. however, since may 2013, the commission has stopped drawing up the implementation plans and it is therefore difficult to assess the progress made now. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which calls for an implementation report to verify the actions undertaken, including the use of financial resources. one of the main problems with european legislation on tourism is that the resources allocated to it are really negligible and that most of the actions undertaken require funding in different funding programmes which are not integrated with each other.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the efdd group's proposal to reject the measure in question. as tourism services are the most popular category of products purchased online, the european legislator has stepped in to adapt the protection of travellers to the challenges posed by new technologies. to this end, the european commission has proposed a regulation amending directives 2006/2004/ec and 2011/83/eu and replacing directive 90/314/eec. the report makes it clear that this is a directive of complete harmonization in the interests of consumers and service providers. the new provisions apply to both the online and offline business travel sectors and substantially change the insolvency protection mechanism. in addition, travellers are offered the possibility to replace their package with an equivalent package in the event of a unilateral change by the organiser to a main element of the travel contract. the proposal lays down penalties and clarifies the scope of traveller protection for the purchase of combinations of travel services by including in the definition different forms of online packages and package tours. the derogations for ancillary contracts are extended to cover ancillary services provided as part of the package and the concept of 'travel assisted organisation', renamed 'linked travel organisation', is clarified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because i think that in order to best protect the very important tourism sector in europe, it is very important to block those practices whereby tourist services, offering online packages, offer additional services in a hidden, obscure or ambiguous way. i am always against any kind of fraud in order to have a europe that is as serious, transparent and clean as possible, especially in a sector such as tourism where europe has a serious competitive advantage and cannot lose it because of a lack of confidence. it is a matter of protecting the businesses which, on a daily basis, are devising ways of offering services to tourists, but it is the greatest bulwark of defence for our lands, so rich in history and culture, but often impoverished by unfair commercial practices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation because i agree with the changes that are intended to be made in the field of package travel and tourism services. first, digital modernisation is essential in our era to make services more competitive. the amendment of the insolvency mechanism is of particular importance, as it provides greater protection for travellers. in addition, the clarification of the concept of 'assisted travel' to 'connected travel' also allows travellers to take an equivalent package when the organiser unilaterally changes a main element of the travel contract. this new legislative amendment will increase consumer protection and make tourist services more modern and competitive.
in writing. ‒ the extraordinary wealth of europe's artistic and landscape heritage makes the tourism industry an important element for growth in europe. however, this industry must remain competitive, including through greater protection of travellers. the european parliament resolution, which comes after a long legislative process, ensures greater harmonisation and transparency of the rules on package holidays and linked tourism services and greater protection for travellers, thereby strengthening the european tourism market. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the approval of the agreement reached with the council on package travel and assisted tourism services updates and makes more effective the european legislation governing the sector of purchases of package travel, still unchanged from the 1990 directive 314, when the internet and online purchases were not widespread. i am pleased that the directive has strengthened the level of consumer protection by comparing the purchase of traditional travel packages and tourist services with those purchased online. in particular, the rules which have been approved today will allow 120 million travellers to buy personalised packages, enjoying the same rights and protections as those who buy pre-packaged or assisted tourism services. the change and evolution of consumer and business needs in the travel market, due to the advent of the digital age, necessitated new regulatory intervention by the european institutions. the adoption of the new directive will now ensure that consumers are better protected and informed about their rights.
in writing. ‒ tourism is a vital and fundamental sector for italy and for veneto, my region. i am voting to withdraw the proposal which, as is too often the case, is against our citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation for the second reading of the council concerning the european parliament and council directive on package holidays and linked travel arrangements because i believe that the evolution of the market for online travel services requires an adaptation of the existing legislation. i believe it is essential that the eu puts in place strong legislation to protect the rights of consumer travellers, to combat unfair commercial practices and false advertising, and to guarantee public authorities too. more transparency and more controls, therefore, for tourist packages purchased online. this is a complex issue because of the different notions of 'package tourism' in different countries. the european parliament's push for greater uniformity of legislation is therefore important. the provisions relating to the insolvency of the tour operator, the rights of travellers in respect of price reductions, compensation for non-material damage, extension of the time limit for lodging complaints and breach of contract are important. i therefore urge the council to adopt the package swiftly and definitively at second reading, so as to put these guarantees in writing, in order to protect all european citizens and tourist businesses themselves.
in writing. i have decided to vote against this recommendation. the new provisions provide for the application of harmonised rules, both online and offline, for business travel in the interests of consumers and businesses. while the effort to make the rules in this area even more consistent is appreciated, i believe that the consumer and tourist protection framework is already effective and does not need to be changed in such a way as to alter its current good functioning.
in writing. ‒ by voting against the amendment tabled by the efdd political group, which proposed to reject the council's proposal, i intend to show my willingness to move forward with the legislative process of the report by mr collin-langen.
in writing. ‒ while i thank the rapporteur for his work, i would nevertheless stress the need to ensure better protection for consumers who buy tourist services online. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ council directive 90/314/eec guarantees the right of consumers to receive essential information before and after signing a contract for the purchase of a package. travellers are increasingly interested in personally choosing all the elements of their package, but the rules in place do not adequately cover online shopping. for this reason, the european commission has proposed a regulation amending directives 2006/2004 and 2011/83/eu and replacing directive 90/314 /eec. the commission proposal lays down precise penalties and clarifies the scope of traveller protection for the purchase of combinations of travel services (for the same trip or package) by including different forms of online packages and package tours. the new rules will cover the additional 120 million consumers who prefer to book their travel packages online. i believe that the existing legislative framework should be adapted to developments in the tourism sector in order to eliminate grey areas and fill the regulatory gaps. this will enable the eu to better respond to the demands of its citizens for the use of the internet in the tourism sector. for these reasons i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the european commission's proposal to introduce a new regulation to replace directive 90/314/eec and to amend directives 2006/2004/ec and 2011/83/eu as i consider that regulation to be ineffective and not comprehensive.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the role of travel agencies has been reduced as a result of the growth in the supply of low-cost flights and the sale of online travel packages. the previous 1990 directive on assisted package holidays is considered a successful and useful example of consumer protection for all-inclusive travel. since the way in which travellers plan and purchase their travel has changed substantially since then, a review of the legislation was necessary in order to broaden the definition of 'package holidays' to include self-booked online travel services. i therefore voted in favour of this reform which will certainly give consumers and travellers greater protection, including the possibility of withdrawing from the contract in exceptional and unavoidable circumstances, an opportunity which has not been provided for until now.
in writing. ‒ i have expressed my support for the report on package holidays and linked travel arrangements, which adapts a 1990 european directive on the protection of travellers to changes in the travel market, with particular reference to online booking of travel. the revision of the legislation we have approved will significantly strengthen the rights of travellers who buy tourist services online. in fact, those who buy a package on the internet with the formula 'all inclusive' or through linked web pages will receive the same protection as those who buy a package from travel agencies. in addition, travellers will be given more options to cancel a contract, through more information on their rights and who is responsible in the event of problems, such as the insolvency of the service provider. i particularly appreciate the rapporteur's approach, which has managed to combine consumer protection with the economic interests of the industry, such as tour operators, travel agencies and hotel establishments.
in writing. ‒ a lot has changed in the last 25 years, including in the tourism sector. that is why i voted in favour of mrs collin-langen's report. consumers, thanks also to the rapid development of digital technologies, are always looking for personalised combinations and products that are adapted to their needs and expectations. this is why we need to modernise european rules so that all consumers are protected and can freely decide what type of travel contract to sign, without fear of ambiguous or unclear clauses. the improvements made by parliament to the text are very significant as regards the contractual and pre-contractual information which is at the heart of the measure. we need to ensure that people and users know what they are buying and what rights they have acquired.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because i firmly believe in the importance of the internet for the promotion of tourism. the development of this sector requires the protection of consumers of tourist services purchased online. we have clarified what the rights of travellers are in cases of price reductions, compensation for material damage and not so much else. it is an important step forward in defining the rights of tourists in the digital age.
in writing. ‒ i welcome today's vote, which takes a further step towards updating the existing european rules on package holidays dating back to 1990. many products available today are not covered by the 1990 directive and in other cases remain in a legal grey area. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations. among the safeguards which will ensure effective consumer protection, it is important to emphasize the availability of all the specific information before signing a contract and the possibility of cancelling a package in the event that, before departure, its price should increase by more than 8%. the new directive will also extend the definition of package holidays to include many services which can now be booked online but were not covered by the 1990 legislation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because it introduces important new features for those who pack their own personalised travel packages, offering greater guarantees to the user and defining the seller's responsibilities. the improvements include cancellation of the holiday without penalty if the cost of the package increases by 8%, a maximum of three additional nights free of charge if the return journey is delayed due to particularly adverse weather conditions, repatriation and full refund in the event of the seller's insolvency. the package travel directive was necessary because the existing legislation dates back to 1990, when the only packages in existence were those created by tour operators. today, thanks to the internet, the consumer can instead customize the package offered, choosing transport, hotels and other services, such as car rental, with the consequent difficulty of identifying the person responsible for the individual services within the package. the new directive thus covers package tours packaged by the tour operator, personalised packages assembled by the consumer and purchased by a single operator and assisted tourism, i.e. the combination of services sold by a single intermediary but as separate services, to which the principles laid down in the directive of 25 years ago are also extended.
in writing. the legislative proposal for a 'european single market for electronic communications' was sold to citizens as a big step forward, as the end of roaming charges and as the much-sought-after net neutrality. reality is not like that: first of all, there is no reason to postpone everything to 2017, except to take more time. roaming is changing, companies will be allowed to "spread" it to all users and if the stay abroad of the specially created "average user" is exceeded, it will become chargeable to the individual user. net neutrality is no more, there will be a lucky few (the bigs) who will enjoy high-speed bandwidth, while the rest will just have to resign themselves. this gives the operator the ability to "censor" any page by degrading it to its own unquestionable "like" to the slowest band. the amendments voted on were aimed above all at affirming net neutrality and eliminating ambiguous or explicitly negative exceptions. i voted in favour of these amendments, but unfortunately they were all rejected.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text. it is certainly a step up from the current costs that european citizens have to bear when using their own roaming operators, but the fact remains that roaming costs will not be totally eliminated as the sustainability clause will be introduced which will allow each operator to apply a surcharge to the extent necessary to recover the costs of providing services.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a single market for electronic communications, which i strongly support, has seen the european parliament show great determination during its long process, which began in 2013 and is now finally bearing fruit. the abolition of roaming charges and guarantees of network access, as provided for in the document, have had a widespread positive impact on consumers, small and medium-sized enterprises, start-ups and other organisations. the abolition of roaming charges will follow a gradual path leading to their final abolition in mid-2017 (15 june 2017). after that date, all european consumers will be charged the same price for calls, sms and mobile data, whether they are in their home country or travelling in europe. the support for today's vote is an important step towards the implementation of the digital single market strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the introduction of this regulation is a fundamental step towards completing the single market, which will safeguard access to an open internet, protect users' rights and put an end to roaming surcharges.
in writing. ‒ finally, following the success of the work of the itre committee and the long interinstitutional negotiations, it is possible to harmonise the rules to safeguard free access to the internet, protect users' rights and put an end to unfair international roaming surcharges. the vote means that the eu can, for the first time, have legislation that establishes net neutrality and limits the risks of arbitrary blocking or throttling of private connections of european citizens. although full protection of the ultimate net neutrality and full equality of treatment of private connections are still to be achieved in their entirety, the measure represents an important milestone and a stimulus to further efforts towards respecting digital citizenship and net neutrality in europe.
in writing. ‒ there is no final vote on the second reading. the regulation will eliminate roaming from 15 june 2017, subject to a sustainability clause. in any case, the total cost will not exceed 0.19 cents per call, 0.60 cents per sms and 0.20 cents for data.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the house, i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting the regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down measures concerning access to an open internet. i am convinced that achieving 'harmonised rules to safeguard access to an open internet, to protect users' rights and to put an end to roaming surcharges' means giving due weight to freedom of expression and ensuring a solid basis for a 'european social area', now based on the mobility of people and their communications, which must take place in a context of net neutrality. but it doesn 't escape the winding road . international roaming has been regulated in a different, cautious and progressive way than other areas of ict. it needed the support of the parallel development of a 'european consciousness' geared to promoting digital data flows by any means. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the european union is based on the principle of the protection of the financial interests of the union.
in writing. ‒ the report's main themes are roaming and net neutrality. in the latter respect, the text avoids directly addressing the essential issue of net neutrality; it replaces it with an ambiguous and undefined concept of 'open access', full of exceptions, which does not offer european citizens the necessary guarantees of identical treatment of all services circulating on the network. it thus opens up the possibility of reinforcing the already dominant positions of large operators and service providers and of comparatively disadvantaging certain content providers. the possibility of offering "privileged courses" on the internet is created, with the sole basis of the commercial exploitation of the network: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. that is why we voted in favour of all the amendments tabled in plenary, because they focus mainly on the affirmation of net neutrality and the elimination of ambiguous or explicitly negative exceptions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the efdd group's proposal to reject the measure in question. the regulation helps to highlight the role of icts, which have contributed 50% to productivity growth in all sectors in recent years and created five jobs for every two people, as a key element for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. in order to achieve a single market for electronic communications, citizens and businesses must have access to electronic communications services wherever they are provided in the union, without cross-border restrictions or unjustified additional costs. undertakings providing electronic communications networks and services may operate and provide their products and services regardless of their place of establishment or that of their customers in the eu. the regulation promotes the harmonisation of rules to safeguard access to an open internet, putting an end to the disadvantage caused by the overcharging of roaming. a single market for electronic communications can stimulate competition, investment and innovation, thereby increasing competitiveness in terms of infrastructure quality and prices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because it thinks big, as this europe needs to do. beyond the headlines, which focused solely on net neutrality and the abolition of roaming, the proposal deals in detail with one of the major issues concerning the internal market: the creation of pan-european players in the telecommunications market. we are playing a big part in this sector of our future, and we cannot continue to divide the market into smaller pieces, but we need large, solid companies that are ready to invest. broadband is a highway that needs to be built, and the e-commerce that will come out of it is the biggest opportunity for our great companies. finally, i congratulate mrs pilar del castillo vera on her work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation, which represents a real step forward in protecting consumers and businesses, especially start-ups and smes. finally, from june 2017, a ban on roaming charges for mobile phones will be in place across the eu. however, as of 2016, there will be a transitional cost reduction under the control of national regulatory authorities. there will also be clearer and, above all, harmonised rules for the use of the internet between the various member states, which will extend access to the internet while protecting the rights of users.
in writing. ‒ the single market for electronic communications is at the heart of the digital economy and is of key importance for growth and jobs. the european parliament resolution aims to harmonise rules to safeguard access to an open internet, protect users' rights and put an end to roaming surcharges. i voted in favour of this resolution because it promotes the role of electronic communications as a factor for innovation and connectivity in all sectors of the economy, as well as promoting user protection.
in writing. ‒ the legislative text voted fails to address the major divisions within the european telecommunications market, protects users very weakly and maintains the privileges of the large operators. in fact, the proposed scheme allows operators to reduce their own roaming costs and there is a risk that citizens will even end up subsidising the costs of such an image operation. of course, m5s could not agree with this approach. furthermore, net neutrality is a departure from the public and democratic service nature that m5s believes the internet should be. we also disagree with the overall 'barter' in the text, where net neutrality is exchanged for the 'fake end' of roaming. these are issues with a completely different political impact: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of equal treatment to all citizens of the union. the delegation's explicit proposal was to separate the two issues, by now legislating on a real end to roaming and opening a more participatory and informed discussion on net neutrality.
in writing. ‒ the tms regulation will introduce a system of harmonised rules to safeguard free access to the internet, protect users' rights and put an end to roaming surcharges. i voted in favour of this recommendation because i think it is important that the commission approves the council's position without further amendments, in order to guarantee net neutrality by eliminating once and for all those 'artificial borders' created by roaming surcharges.
in writing. m5s is opposed to the interinstitutional text negotiated by the trilogue, which protects users very weakly and maintains the privileges of the big players. the issue of net neutrality is not addressed, but is replaced by the vague concept of "open access", which departs from the public service character, offered on equal terms to all service and content providers, which in the opinion of the m5s should distinguish the internet. we also disagree with the overall 'barter' that has been made in the text, where net neutrality is traded for the 'fake end' of roaming. these are issues with a completely different political and civic impact: the network is increasingly affecting everyone's lives. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of equal treatment to all citizens of the union. we have tried in the trilogue to separate the issues, by now legislating on a real end to roaming and opening a more participatory and informed discussion on net neutrality, but in vain. in the plenary, where there is no vote on the second reading, m5s supported amendments to affirm the need for net neutrality, as demanded by thousands of citizens.
in writing. ‒ today we are voting on the second reading of a text on the single european market for electronic communications, which is the result of a trilogue, the conclusions of which we did not agree with. we are faced with a text which is a striking example of institutional propaganda which does not correspond to reality. the text unjustifiably postpones the entry into force of the measures adopted until 2017; the measures taken will not lead to the end of roaming as such, as wholesalers will continue to pay for it, thus passing these costs on to the end-user in a different way; finally, the regulatory package is subject to conditions and exceptions which further weaken it. as if that were not enough, net neutrality is being seriously undermined. the introduction of an ambiguous and undefined concept of 'open access', full of exceptions, does not offer european citizens the necessary guarantees of identical treatment of all services circulating on the network. the conditions for strengthening dominant positions are being created and the public service nature of the internet, which we believe should be its hallmark, is being ignored. for these reasons we voted for amendments which aim to reverse the outcome of a trilogue which we do not share at all.
in writing. ‒ with the measure voted today, we have finally eliminated the odious roaming costs for 500 million european citizens. we have thus made the freedom of movement of european citizens even stronger by eliminating what was still standing as an invisible wall, forcing tourists and cross-border workers to bear unbearable and totally unjustified additional costs. at the same time, we were the first region in the world to create regulations that protect free and non-discriminatory access to the internet.
in writing. i welcome this important vote which makes an important step towards the full integration of the internal market in telecommunications. the most symbolic result is the abolition of roaming, a measure which has been awaited for a long time and which is the best way of showing that europe is real and attentive to the needs of its citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement with the council on the digital single market regulation, because the regulation, which will enter into force shortly, will represent an important step forward in removing the bottlenecks which still exist and which hinder the development of the digital single market (abolition of roaming charges, introduction of european rules on net neutrality). since 2013, it was clear from the commission's proposal for a regulation that a pragmatic regulatory approach would be taken, choosing to gradually remove barriers to the digital single market, in terms of introducing a single authorisation for cross-border providers, coordinating spectrum allocation, harmonising the access products needed to provide electronic communications, and in terms of end-user protection. the agreement, while not entirely satisfactory, is undoubtedly the best possible agreement in the interests of end users, particularly as regards the abolition of roaming. however, it regrets that the complete abolition of roaming will only be effective from mid-2017. finally, i welcome the introduction of specific european legislation on non-discriminatory access to the net, which will continue to make the internet a platform open to innovation.
in writing. ‒ with this vote we have finally established that the ban on roaming charges when using mobile phones within the european union will come into force from june 2017. as from 30 april 2016, roaming surcharges will be limited and will allow citizens to have lower rates than those applied. this vote is important because it opens up significant new opportunities for consumers and mobile operators. in addition, by ensuring the application of the principle of net neutrality in all 28 countries of the european union, we have put a barrier in the way of those who, driven by economic interests, want a two-speed internet. in this way we have demonstrated our commitment to equal treatment of citizens online.
in writing. today's vote is a great achievement for parliament and the european institutions, for the benefit of the citizens. in an increasingly globalised and interconnected world, digital communication is the essential tool for the development of everyday life. we have today officially signed an agreement that will have immediate and direct consequences on the lives of european citizens, because as of april 2016 sms, calls and data for using the internet via mobile devices roaming in europe will be much cheaper. moreover, from june 2017, they will be eliminated altogether and we will be able to call and surf all over europe at the cost set by our national operator. and this is a major victory which will enable us to achieve a real common market in electronic communications.
in writing. ‒ the reduction of extra costs already in 2016 and the european union's end to international roaming from june 2017 mark the evolution of communication for all european citizens. i voted in favour of a principle that should be absolutely recognized, that of net neutrality.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this recommendation on universal service and rights in electronic communications networks and services. the innovation in the current legislation will ensure greater consumer protection in terms of net neutrality and lower roaming costs. the new regulation, by reducing the surcharges on sms, data and call packages applied to consumers travelling across the eu, will further harmonise and unify european telecommunications markets, as well as of course guaranteeing greater consumer protection. the report is the result of three months of intense and difficult triangular negotiations with the european commission and the council. for this reason, in an attempt to avoid any further extension of time, i fully support the regulation without supporting any other amendments. the legislative proposal, while only a first step towards the establishment of a genuine single telecommunications market, is a good compromise and will enable citizens to enjoy these benefits directly. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the european union's neighbours, the countries of central and eastern europe, the countries of the former soviet union and the countries of central and eastern europe.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for his work and i have decided to cast my negative vote.
in writing. ‒ the importance of the european commission's proposal to create a single market for electronic communications lies mainly in the fact that citizens and businesses will have the right to access electronic communications services wherever they are in the eu, without cross-border restrictions or unjustified additional costs. in particular, i think it is of great importance that the decision to end the roaming surcharges be taken. from 15 june 2017, roaming charges for calls, text messages and internet use via mobile devices will be banned in the eu. i welcome these kinds of initiatives, which have a direct positive impact on the daily lives of millions of european citizens. in addition, they are very important in order to promote competition, stimulate investment in broadband and increase the deployment of next-generation technological infrastructures. that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the single european market for electronic communications as the new regulation will remove roaming surcharges by mid-2017 and ensure access to an open internet. the rules of procedure provide in particular that: the complete abolition of the extra costs of using mobile phones abroad, whether for calls, sms or internet browsing; that the treatment of traffic is equal and non-discriminatory, while recognising the quality of service for so-called 'necessary services'; the creation of a service to provide information on roaming charges until it is completely abolished; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
in writing. ‒ thanks to today's vote, roaming surcharges for mobile phone use will finally be banned from june 2017 and clearer rules on the right to internet access will be established. for the first time, there will also be specific eu legislation to protect the right of every european citizen to access content on the internet without discrimination. internet service providers will have to consider how best to meet demand and will not be able to block or slow down the reception of content, applications or services offered by specific companies, except to avoid network congestion or cyber attacks.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the new regulation on the european telecoms market, whereby parliament approves the end of roaming charges in the eu as of 15 june 2017, on the basis of a difficult agreement with the member states. the regulation also introduces a common framework on the right of access to the internet, in the spirit of sharing and free trade that has animated the global network ecosystem since its inception. this spirit, embodied in the principle of net neutrality, has enabled the web to evolve to become, according to tim berners-lee, "a central infrastructure of our time that permeates every sector, from the economy to the private lives of individuals". therefore, while sharing the important objectives achieved by the final text, i chose to underline further my position in favour of net neutrality by voting for an amendment calling for even more defined common rules so that the internet remains an open and horizontal platform, capable of promoting the right of everyone to access and distribute information, or to exercise free choice in the use of applications and services, avoiding fragmentation due to different national regulations. only by further strengthening the freedom and openness of the network can europe establish itself as a competitive, prosperous and just society.
in writing. ‒ this regulation says that all traffic on the internet should be treated equally but allows the opposite to be done, as it sets out a wide range of exceptions to the rule, allowing the possibility of managing data traffic and/or establishing preferential fast lanes. they will presumably be routed only by direct traffic to sites able to pay to make access faster and easier for users. i voted to reject the regulation as a whole, as it kills net neutrality in the eu. i voted in favour of the amendments which aimed to prevent all these exceptions. they failed. without net neutrality, google and facebook would not have been able to take their first, difficult steps towards popularity: the eu is effectively preventing the emergence of european innovative platforms that can compete with the us giants, as net neutrality is now being eroded. the abolition of roaming in the regulation is also limited to: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's telecommunications policy is not subject to the same conditions and is subordinated to the interests of telecommunications companies. that is the second reason why i voted no: the unconditional abolition of roaming would be a necessary step towards making europe a connected continent.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the report on the digital single market because, despite the group's indication, it is a fundamental issue and it has reached an unsatisfactory conclusion. this report is the result of long conciliations which began in the previous legislature. i think my work should start here, monitoring the situation in view of the revision of the report and promoting a different awareness of the 'digital culture' from the member states' point of view. the member states of the european union cannot leave the real infrastructure of the future to the united states. we need to do more, starting today.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the interinstitutional agreement between parliament and the council which was expressed in the house today. i believe that this agreement will bring tangible benefits to our businesses and our consumers and i am pleased that a battle fought for a long time by my political group, the end of roaming, has finally been successful. we have today adopted a balanced regulation which breaks down artificial national boundaries and barriers, thus taking an important step towards the creation of a fully unified telecommunications market. i find the agreement particularly satisfactory because, in addition to the abovementioned end of roaming charges for european citizens, the new telecommunications regulation will also guarantee an open and non-discriminatory internet based on the principle of net neutrality.
in writing. the agreed text, which emerged from the negotiations between parliament and the council, appears unsatisfactory. on the one hand, the end of roaming is postponed to 2017, and on the other hand, the rules are designed to allow telephone operators to spread lost earnings on other tariffs, to the detriment of consumers. the privileged position which the telephone companies have acquired over the years is not being eroded and the courage to defend the interests of the community effectively is lacking. the commission is also prepared to throw out the possibility of establishing net neutrality in a clear and unambiguous way, which is essential if we want to create a truly free, competitive market, committed to innovation and transparency. the concept of net neutrality is replaced by an ambiguous definition of 'open access' which does not put all european citizens on an equal footing when accessing the services and content available on the net. this situation makes it possible to strengthen the dominant positions of large operators and service providers, while disadvantaging independent suppliers. i therefore voted in favour of the amendments, in order to restore a clear definition of net neutrality which is a real guarantee of freedom and equality for all citizens.
in writing. - my vote on this text is in favour. given the complexity and sensitivity of the control of trade in these goods, especially those with dual use, i believe it is important to do so as precisely as possible and without any unnecessary burden restricting trade in goods with legitimate end uses. these controls must also be flexible and adapt to technological developments and global developments.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote because i believe that an excessive extension of the scope of the legislative proposal risks imposing on businesses the costs of even positive action against third countries that apply torture.
in writing. ‒ the 'regulation against torture' (regulation (ec) no 1236/2005) is the single instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights through the control of goods and activities that are used (or could be used improperly) to carry out the death penalty or to inflict torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. today we have to update both the list of substances and objects that can be traded and the list of countries where it is possible to trade. the european union must continue to be active in defending the dignity and value of human life and in the fight for the abolition of the death penalty in the world. a useful act in this regard, as well as being morally consistent and necessary, is to prevent the transit and/or trade of objects and substances which can be used for torture or the use of the death penalty to countries which do not respect human rights or where the death penalty is still provided for by the legal system in force. the eu's leading role in the world in protecting human rights and improving the quality of global justice is also now being played out in this house.
in writing. ‒ while i share the aims of the legislative proposal, i believe that its adoption should not impose an excessive burden on businesses that trade certain products for legitimate purposes and not related to torture or the death penalty. i abstained on a text which is not balanced but whose aims i share.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, because it is necessary to ban in the strongest possible way all exports or imports of goods which could be used for cruel punishment, and to increase monitoring of export licences for goods which could be used for such purposes. europe has been a death penalty-free area since 1997 and must also be a place free of torture and inhuman and degrading practices. the member states must not be complicit in any way, even indirectly, in those who still inflict this type of punishment in the world.
in writing. ‒ the 'torture regulation' is a unique instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights through the control of goods and activities that are, or could be, improperly used to carry out the death penalty or to inflict torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the report voted in plenary is in favour of an approach which provides for necessary and proportionate controls without unnecessary burdens restricting trade in goods with legitimate end uses. in this respect, a level playing field approach at eu level is essential. the report also stresses the need for export control regimes to be long-term and flexible in order to adapt rapidly to technological change and developments in the world. i agree with the text and have accepted some important amendments tabled by our group, including the requirement that information be provided at fairs for the sale of these products, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ yesterday's debate once again highlighted a fundamental aspect of the culture of the european union: the respect of human rights. while recognising the importance of international commercial transactions, in particular those in medical or parapharmaceutical goods, the union cannot put the needs of trade above those of the protection of fundamental rights and must therefore do everything in its power to prevent facilitating violations of those rights through trade in goods that serve that purpose. the union's contribution is based on the conviction that any effort to abolish the death penalty worldwide is essential to contribute to a more just world, based on respect for life and human dignity. we must also reject torture, which is expressly prohibited by article 3 of the european convention on human rights, which has been a point of reference for us all for 65 years. the union is fighting for the abolition of the death penalty in all its activities and the proposal under discussion follows the path marked by years of struggles for human rights. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report starts with a proposal for a european commission regulation on the need to ban or restrict trade in goods that could be used to impose the death penalty. in the course of the negotiations between the groups in the inta committee, which is responsible for the subject, i have repeatedly stressed the need to ensure uniform rules for exports of these products from the eu. i have also stressed on several occasions the need to take account of the requests of all parties concerned so that the activities of european companies producing and marketing legal goods are not harmed by the introduction of unnecessary legal limits. after a thorough analysis of the text in committee and in the course of group meetings, the text as negotiated seemed to me to be very balanced, which is why i decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because it constitutes a unique instrument for the protection of human rights through the control of goods and activities that are or could be improperly used to practice the death penalty or to inflict torture or other cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment. i think it is important to ensure the right mix of legislative, administrative, judicial and non-eu measures to prevent and prohibit the production, trade and use of goods for torture and to effectively control articles with potentially lethal uses. in this respect, it is essential to ensure consistency in export controls. the rapporteur is in favour of an approach which provides for necessary and proportionate controls without unnecessary burdens restricting trade in goods with legitimate end uses. i think these points are important in trying to put an end to certain inhuman practices, which should have nothing to do with our society today.
in writing. ‒ with the increasing complexity of external trade, the eu's instruments for external action need to be strengthened by changing export controls, which will need to be more flexible and able to adapt quickly to technological change and global developments. it is necessary to promote legislative, administrative and judicial measures aimed at preventing and prohibiting the production and trade of goods for the purpose of torture and of articles potentially used for lethal and inhumane purposes. i therefore support the review of the regulation in question, as it aims to further strengthen the european union's role as a world leader in the fight against the practice of the death penalty and to eliminate inhuman and degrading treatment involving torture. the national authorities are required to carry out checks and inspections on goods and to exchange information concerning exports of the products covered by this regulation. the amendment of this regulation would be desirable to strike a fair balance between the legitimate interests of the manufacturing companies and the potential uses of certain articles for the purposes of torture and capital punishment. export controls should be necessary and proportionate, without imposing unnecessary burdens that restrict trade in goods with legitimate end-uses.
in writing. ‒ the 'regulation against torture' contributes to the protection of human rights through the control of goods and activities that are used or that could be improperly used for the purpose of capital punishment or the infliction of torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading punishment. the report provides for control regimes that have long-term validity, which must be flexible in order to be able to adapt to technological developments in the world. to ensure compliance with these rules, a list of prohibited articles has also been drawn up, thus providing greater clarity for exporters and importers. it was also requested to monitor, where possible, online marketing services that could contribute to the dissemination of goods that could be used for torture. i am voting in favour, given the very nature of the measure as it contributes to the abolition of the death penalty worldwide.
in writing. ‒ on 8 october 2015, the european parliament adopted a resolution against the death penalty, reaffirming the principles of defence of the right to life and the prohibition of the death penalty as set out in article 2 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. in the wider context of the fight to abolish the practice altogether, the european union must continue to actively engage in prohibiting the trade in goods that could be used for capital punishment, such as medicines used for lethal injection in third countries. it must also continue to oppose vigorously the trade in instruments used for torture and inhuman or degrading treatment. the revision of this regulation is most timely as it allows, after 10 years, the updating of the commodity coverage and the insertion of a comprehensive clause together with the prohibition of transit in the eu of these goods, demonstrating the strong will to achieve the objectives of the regulation. i voted strongly in favour of the revision of this regulation, as i firmly believe that the european union must continue to play a leading role in the active defence of human rights, by implementing and updating all the instruments at its disposal to that end.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential to support the union's policy to abolish the death penalty and to prevent torture. i think that when the legislation is revised, it is appropriate to provide for the updating of the lists of goods subject to controls. it is essential to prohibit trade in instruments of torture and to control effectively items with potential lethal uses, avoiding the introduction of unnecessary charges that would risk restricting trade in goods with legitimate uses. in this respect i share the need for an approach that ensures uniformity and flexibility in controls, without subjecting products to double inspection and ensuring a rapid capacity to adapt to technological change.
in writing. europe, as the guarantor of the dignity and rights of persons, must safeguard and respect the life and well-being of citizens above all, using all the administrative, judicial and legislative measures at its disposal to prevent trade and improper use of goods and equipment for the purpose of torture, ill-treatment, or other acts of cruel or inhuman treatment. i therefore fully share and support the commission's proposal for a more stringent revision of regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 against torture.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's position on the proposal for a revision of council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005, better known as the 'anti-torture regulation', on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the legislation is an important piece of legislation because it contributes to the protection of human rights; the commission has long been awaiting its revision, and the updating of the lists of goods subject to controls is a step in the right direction. the eu must therefore continue to tackle the death penalty and torture through policies that combine bans and licensing requirements on the trade in these weapons. given the complexity of foreign trade in a globalised world, it is therefore appropriate to combine eu judicial and external legislative measures and administrative sanctions, but also awareness-raising activities against the trafficking of such goods and, in general, against the death penalty and torture. i hope that the council will reach an agreement in due course and that the ep will be able to defend this position to the end.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs schaake's report. this proposal aims to amend council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 on trade in certain goods which could be improperly used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the 'anti-torture regulation' is part of the eu's long-standing policy to abolish the death penalty worldwide and to prevent torture. i therefore believe that this proposal is in line with my principles of respect for the dignity of the human person and human rights.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the decision not to vote in plenary in order to facilitate the immediate start of the trilogue negotiations. this commission proposal aims to identify goods which can be used for torture and capital punishment. the proposal reflects the european union's fundamental values on human rights. the subject is part of the wider project of increasing the coherence between the principles of the european union and its external action. in the name of trade, the european union cannot risk the trade in goods produced in its territory being detrimental to its ethical standards. in detail, i am particularly in favour of the inclusion of an annex which would better specify the goods which will be subject to a thorough inspection and, therefore, to a possible ban. i also welcome the introduction of a general authorization at union level to regulate exports to countries whose integrity is in question. finally, i would like to take this opportunity to urge the commission not to stop at the innovation of this regulation but, on the contrary, to continue, in all the necessary places, to prevent corporal punishment and torture from being accepted in the rest of the world, even before they are perpetrated.
in writing. ‒ i join my personal commitment to that of the union as a whole in the campaigns undertaken to abolish the death penalty in the world and to prevent acts of torture, and i particularly agree with the rapporteur's proposal on the need for ever more thorough checks between member states in the light of the increasing complexity of international trade interactions. i hope that progress will be made in good time and i welcome the efforts being made by the european union in this area.
in writing. ‒ the amendment to regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 aims to strengthen the eu's role in the fight against the death penalty and the elimination of torture. the amendment aims to introduce clauses to ensure the end-use of certain goods, in particular medicines, which could be used in practice for capital punishment, torture or other ill-treatment. the text provides for penalties for economic operators who do not comply with certain obligations. the eu also commits to carrying out such controls in a proportionate manner and without imposing any unnecessary burden that might restrict trade. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the adoption of this motion for a resolution, also because i am totally opposed to any form of capital punishment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other treatment or punishment because i am against any act of torture and capital punishment. the member states of the european union must ensure ever more scrupulous controls for medical products which could be used to torture or kill human beings. i am in favour of the commission's decision to include a new annex indicating which products need to be checked more closely before they are placed on the market.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because, while i share the aims of the legislative proposal, i believe that its adoption should not impose an excessive burden on companies that trade certain products for legitimate purposes and absolutely not related to torture or the death penalty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe it is important to ensure that legislative, judicial and administrative measures are taken to prohibit the production, trade and use of goods which could be used for the death penalty or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment for the purpose of torture. the 'anti-torture regulation', by establishing prohibitions and authorisation requirements for trade in certain multi-use items, is part of the european policy to abolish the death penalty and prevent torture worldwide. i think that this regulation is a valuable instrument for achieving the wider strategic objective of protecting human rights.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the revision of the regulation which contributes to the abolition of the death penalty in the world through tighter controls on trade in certain goods which could be used for practices that could lead to capital punishment or torture. the new regulation introduces controls on export licences for certain medicines, for example those for lethal injection, and other items regularly used by certain authoritarian regimes for the purpose of torture and degrading treatment of prisoners. thanks to the large majority in parliament on the commission's proposal, we have extended the scope of the regulation to include a clause under which customs authorities will have to seize all goods which give rise to reasonable grounds for believing that they are being used for torture. since previous attempts to introduce such export controls have not been successful, i believe that this is an important measure for the defence of the european union's values in the world in the protection of human life against the practice of the death penalty, which is unfortunately still too widespread. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in order to eliminate the death penalty worldwide and prevent torture, while respecting human rights, the european union must ensure the right combination of legislative, administrative and judicial measures to prevent and prohibit the production, trade and use of goods for the purpose of torture and to effectively control articles with potentially lethal and inhumane uses. i therefore voted in favour of mrs schaake's report. considers it essential to promote an eu-wide approach that ensures uniformity in export controls; such schemes must be long-term and flexible in order to adapt rapidly to technological change and developments in the world. to facilitate such controls, it is necessary to establish lists of specific articles at eu level in order to provide clarity to exporters and importers and to limit the danger of certain articles being sold. the implementation by local authorities of controls, audits, sanctions, guidelines and awareness raising actions is also of paramount importance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the revision of the regulation strengthens the eu's export controls, in particular on medicines that can be used for lethal injection, bans intermediary services for prohibited goods and facilitates exports to countries that have made and implemented strict international commitments. i am convinced that the european union must play a leading role and set a global example in the fight against the death penalty and torture, and the revision of this regulation is another important step forward and a clear signal to all our international partners.
in writing. ‒ although this directive does not end the problem of tax evasion within the european union, i consider it a positive contribution towards a more fruitful exchange of information between member countries. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ clarity and transparency are two important principles that must guide tax discipline at european level. one year after the luxleaks scandal, it is a positive sign that a concrete legislative act to deal with this issue has been adopted. the report, which i support, provides for the extension of these principles by means of an expansion of the exchange of information. the commission notes that the tax ruling is not a tax ruling, but a tax ruling. these provisions are a sign of a real commitment and in the right direction to ensure greater clarity, which benefits the member states as well as the european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i am firmly convinced that the introduction of the obligation to exchange automatic information in the tax area represents an important step in the fight against tax evasion and avoidance by increasing coordination between the administrations of the various member states.
in writing. - i vote for it. the measure stems from the so-called luxleaks scandal and aims to combat the effects of fraud and evasion, as well as the proliferation of tax havens within the eu. i have chosen to promote the exchange of information between member states.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. globalisation and the increasing mobility of taxpayers can make it difficult for member states to properly ascertain the taxable base of individuals and businesses, encouraging tax avoidance and evasion and thus undermining the functioning of the internal market. this problem can only be tackled effectively if the member states decide to act together by providing for an effective system of cooperation between national tax administrations. council directive 2011/16/eu was adopted in response to the need of member states to enhance administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. the amendment aims to make this dialogue between tax agencies even more effective and comprehensive by introducing a mandatory automatic exchange of information on crossborder injunctions and advance transfer pricing arrangements. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the information exchange is not restricted to the member states.
in writing. ‒ in the econ committee we supported several compromises aimed at improving the automatic, rapid and effective exchange of information in this area. unfortunately, we would have liked more transparency, guaranteed by having a public register accessible to all, in which the data relating to the tax agreements signed would be entered. we therefore proposed an alternative compromise but it was rejected. the vote of the m5s delegation today is therefore negative, although it admits some improvements compared to the current situation.
in writing. ‒ i considered that i would vote in favour of the amendment to directive 2011/16/eu, implemented by directive 2014/107/eu. the previous framework, which defined the legal framework for administrative cooperation on the exchange of information, required the exchange of a very small amount of information on tax rulings. directive 2014/107/eu builds on the principles of the parliament's resolution of 21 may 2013 in which it underlined the leading role that the eu should play in the fight against unfair tax practices. it introduces a new article, defining the scope and conditions for the mandatory automatic exchange of information on types of cross-border tax rulings and transfer pricing arrangements. this obligation is extended to judgments issued in the 10 years preceding the date on which the proposed directive takes effect and which are still valid on the date of entry into force of the directive. the proposed directive also provides for the possibility for the commission to set up a secure central repository where information communicated under the directive can be recorded.
in writing. ‒ in countries such as italy, tax burdens have reached intolerable levels. it's not so much a question of how much you pay in relation to income, but what you get in return: the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has been involved in the development of the european union's environmental policy. however, evasion and avoidance are not the answer: to make what we have work better, we need to make investments, and that requires resources. i voted in favour of this directive because i believe that everyone should participate, within reasonable limits, in the reorganization of the finances of his country and that attempts to curb the so-called 'tax optimisation' are legitimate.
in writing. ‒ cross-border tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition are serious european and global problems. the report proposes an amendment to directive 2011/16/eu on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation with a view to promoting the sharing of relevant data through administrative cooperation between member states. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the instruments and mechanisms established by the directive need to be strengthened by defining the conditions and scope for the mandatory automatic exchange of information on certain types of crossborder tax rulings and transfer pricing agreements. the aim of the amendment of the directive is to ensure greater transparency in tax matters and to make tax transfer procedures clearer and more effective.
in writing. ‒ council directive 2011/16/eu, adopted in replacement of an earlier directive (77/779/eec), was intended to respond to the need of member states to enhance administrative cooperation in the field of taxation through a mandatory automatic exchange of information on (cross-border) advance ruling and advance reference price agreements. the european parliament's aim was to remove any reference in the directive to the crossborder dimension of rulings in order to reduce the time taken for notification. the directive did not include the adoption of a public register accessible to all, containing all the data relating to the agreements signed, which would have ensured greater transparency. for these reasons, i am voting against the line which has been followed so far and i believe that if transparent measures were adopted and properly applied, the problem of tax evasion and avoidance could be effectively solved.
in writing. ‒ the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation between national tax authorities improves administrative transparency, reduces anti-competitive practices and provides legal certainty for both taxpayers and economic operators. i voted in favour of the resolution of parliament which welcomes the commission proposal and increases its ambition by extending its scope to national tax decisions.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this report. the ecofin text is a good starting point, although i must stress the enormous delay as a critical note.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the proposal for a council directive amending the current directive on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation, because i fully share the signal of clarity and transparency that the ep has sent to the council in the field of tax competition. i also think it is very important that this resolution should be adopted at the same time as another important signal from the taxe parliamentary committee on tax rulings. the audit is important because, among other things, it requires member states to cooperate by requiring immediate notification of all tax agreements between member states and multinationals. nevertheless, it would have been appropriate to entrust the ec with the management of a platform designed for the centralised collection of information. i also hope that we will move beyond cross-border rulings, that tax evasion and avoidance will become a real fight within the member states and that the distortion of tax competition between eu member states will end. at a time when european citizens are being asked to make great sacrifices, it is a matter of social justice that multinational companies pay taxes where profits are made and not in countries which practice tax dumping.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for mandatory automatic exchange of information in the tax field. the european parliament has long been a leading voice in the debate on combating tax fraud and tax evasion. we are calling for more transparency in tax rulings, but attention to scope. tax rulings and price-setting agreements may have a cross-border dimension, even if they concern purely domestic transactions.
in writing. i have decided to give a favourable opinion on mr ferber's report. i believe that the european union must take the lead in the fight against tax evasion and that is why the european regulatory framework in this area needs to be strengthened. to that end, this proposal aims to amend directive 2011/16/eu so as to oblige national tax authorities to exchange information on their internal regulatory updates in terms of tax transparency on a quarterly basis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the tax field. the objective of the report is to extend the automatic exchange of information at both union and world level. the exchange of information in the tax field is one of the instruments for strengthening the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ we are facing a directive that will lead to greater tax transparency and clarity. it introduces a new article to the existing directive, defining the conditions and scope for the mandatory automatic exchange of information on certain types of tax rulings. i therefore voted in favour of these objectives being achieved as a matter of urgency.
in writing. ‒ we support this report because crossborder tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition have reached considerable proportions. we believe that the eu should take a leading role in the global debate on combating fraud, tax evasion and tax havens, in particular by promoting the practice of a constant exchange of information and sensitive data. unfortunately, under the current legal framework, member states do not exchange their tax data voluntarily. the commission proposal aims to define the scope and conditions for automatic exchange. the position adopted in the econ committee goes even further, it is even more ambitious, because we ask that the scope be extended to all decisions, not just to so-called crossborder issues; we oppose any retroactive period. we are convinced of the need to introduce possible penalties in the event of non-compliance. all tax rulings will have to be catalogued in a central repository to which the commission will have full and unconditional access. the commission notes that the tax rulings issued by the tax administration in the period from 1 january 2011 to 31 december 2012 were not subject to the same conditions as the rulings issued by the tax administration in the period from 1 january 2011 to 31 december 2012. we hope to have the support of all the political groups in the plenary too.
in writing. ‒ as you know, i am very concerned about the problem of crossborder tax avoidance and believe that greater transparency in tax rulings is necessary in order to solve this problem that all member states in the union are facing. that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ tackling fraud, tax evasion and tax havens is one of the eu's main challenges. winning this challenge would mean ensuring greater fairness and protection for honest citizens. at present, member states exchange a very limited amount of information on tax rulings. in this way, the competent authorities of each member state often do not become aware of tax rulings made in another member state or of cross-border tax rulings. this is exploited by some companies to artificially reduce their tax contribution. my vote on the proposal to amend directive 2011/16/eu is in favour of this proposal because it aims to achieve greater transparency in tax matters by defining precisely the scope and conditions for the mandatory automatic exchange of information on certain types of tax rulings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the tax area because i believe that there is a need for greater cooperation and harmonisation between member states in tax matters. tax competition must become a tool for development and global growth, and the european union must constantly work to prevent and combat tax evasion. the proposal for directive 2014/107/eu would amend directive 2011/16/eu on administrative cooperation and would ensure an automatic and mandatory exchange of information on cross-border tax rulings and transfer pricing arrangements between member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because one of its aims is to combat the effects of fraud and evasion, as well as the proliferation of tax havens, also within the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of parliament's opinion on the proposal for a directive on the automatic sharing of tax information between member states, put forward by the commission in the wake of the lux leaks case to ensure greater coordination and coordination between member states in tax matters. in this text, we in parliament have criticised the agreement reached by the economic and financial affairs council on 6 october, which we consider to be a missed opportunity to achieve real tax justice for european citizens. the council's position restricts both the scope of the draft directive on automatic exchange, limiting it to crossborder tax schemes only, the commission's access to this information and the non-retroactivity of the directive on tax schemes already in operation. in the face of such an unambitious position, we believe that the proposals put forward by the commission and parliament should be taken seriously to ensure the greatest possible transparency for the benefit of citizens and national tax authorities.
in writing. i voted against this report in which parliament expressed its position on the revision of the directive on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation, which is necessary to respond more effectively to the challenges posed by the phenomenon of tax avoidance by multinationals, which exploded with the luxleaks scandal. while proposing some steps forward, this report fails to focus on the only really effective weapon available to combat aggressive tax avoidance, namely the full transparency of information on tax rulings, the tax agreements between multinationals and governments which have developed thanks to secrecy. we have fought for the creation of an easily accessible public register of all information and data relating to tax rulings, a simple implementation tool, strongly supported by civil society, but which has not found the consent of that part of parliament which is most sensitive to the interests of multinationals and powerful powers. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ council directive 2011/16/eu was adopted to replace an earlier directive on mutual assistance between member states (council directive 77/799/eec) in order to respond to the need of member states to enhance administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. the purpose of the proposal was to strengthen effective and comprehensive administrative cooperation between tax administrations by establishing a mandatory automatic exchange of information on advance cross-border rulings and advance transfer pricing arrangements. the european parliament's main objective in this report was to remove any reference in this directive to the cross-border dimension of rulings, i.e. to extend their scope, while improving the timing of their notification, although i would have preferred a longer period of retrospective assessment. i would also have liked greater transparency, guaranteed by having a public register accessible to all, in which the data relating to the tax agreements signed would be entered. i therefore voted against, although i admit that some improvements have been made in comparison with the present situation.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the positions taken in the czarnecki report. i have therefore decided not to vote in favour of the discharge of the artemis joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the artemis joint undertaking has used the funds allocated for its operation for the year 2013 in a manner that is in line with the budgetary rules.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the granting of the discharge for artemis.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. this company was established to strengthen the union's competitiveness through a research agenda on the development of key technologies for embedded it systems in various application areas. artemis subsequently merged with eniac to create the joint technology initiative 'electronic components and systems for european leadership' (itc ecsel), which started its activities in june 2014 for the next decade. the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 appear to be the result of sound financial and budgetary management. internal control systems have also produced effective results. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. ‒ i thought it appropriate to vote against the granting of discharge because, although artemis has tried to improve its own situation, i am against the proliferation of joint ventures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision approving the closure of the accounts of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 and giving discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors did not find any problems with the financial and treasury management and the control system. the joint undertaking shall adopt the rules on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and on transparency as required. high productivity of research results is highlighted along with compliance with the discipline on the protection and transfer of research results.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr ryszard czarnecki on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking. this undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years in order to define and implement a 'research agenda' for the development of key technologies for information systems; the aim is to strengthen the union's competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the emergence of new markets and new social applications. following the group's line, i supported the report by my colleague who, in view of the final annual accounts, calls for the company's accounts to be closed.
in writing. ‒ the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 with the objective of defining and implementing a 'research agenda' for the development of key technologies for embedded information systems in various application areas, in order to strengthen the union's competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the emergence of new markets and new societal applications. the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 shall, in all material respects, present fairly the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2013, as well as the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended on that date, in accordance with the provisions of the joint undertaking's financial regulation. i therefore vote in favour of this proposal, which provides for the granting of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament proposed, in the first instance, to postpone the granting of discharge to the artemis joint undertaking. the question now is whether or not to vote for the final discharge. the discharge was not granted because the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, had delivered a qualified opinion. artemis has therefore made progress in implementing the action plan to address the shortcomings identified by the court by putting in place the practical arrangements for ex post audits in relation to the administrative agreements signed with the national funding authorities (nfas). furthermore, due to the merger with the eniac joint undertaking, the general policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest of eniac now also applies to the joint undertaking and the disaster recovery plan for the joint undertaking's shared it infrastructure has been approved. the report therefore calls on parliament to vote in favour of the discharge. although artemis has tried to improve its situation, in order to show its disapproval of the proliferation of joint ventures, i think it is appropriate to vote against the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report on the granting of discharge.
in writing. the artemis joint undertaking was set up to strengthen the union's competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the emergence of new markets and new societal applications. i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge for artemis as the court of auditors has stated that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 present fairly the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2013. furthermore, following the merger of the artemis and eniac joint undertakings, i agree with the commission's decision to carry out an evaluation of the activities of the artemis joint undertaking up to the date of the creation of the ecsel itc.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the final annual accounts of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, and having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, together with the replies of the joint undertaking, parliament approved the closure of the accounts of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 by granting the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the artemis company for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors, in its statement for the financial year 2013, confirmed the legality and regularity of the operations of the artemis joint undertaking. taking into account the previous evaluations and statements on the reliability of the undertaking, i voted in favour of the report giving the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for his work and i have decided to cast my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the artemis joint undertaking has made the required progress to address the shortcomings identified by the court of auditors. the procedure was closed following the statement of assurance as to the reliability, legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors in respect of the annual budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. i am voting in favour of granting discharge for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as i agree with the european parliament in approving the closure of the accounts of the artemis joint undertaking and in granting the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
in writing. i voted against the decision requesting the granting of discharge to the artemis joint undertaking: the court of auditors, in its report on the company's annual accounts, had given a qualified opinion. the court was not in a position to assess whether the ex post audits provided sufficient assurances as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i.e. the information available on the implementation of the joint undertaking's ex post audit strategy was not sufficient for the court to determine whether this key control functioned effectively. here too we are faced with inefficient control systems and, although the new ecsel-ju joint undertaking into which artemis has been merged has improved the control systems, i think it is appropriate to stress in my vote that the controls must not be affected in any way by suspicions. the spending of public money must be clear and transparent: if there is any doubt, then we must be more vigilant and more rigorous.
in writing. ‒ the artemis joint undertaking, set up in 2007, aims to enhance and strengthen the union's competitiveness in the field of sustainability and technology and has played a decisive role in the development of key technologies for embedded information systems in various application areas. a further step forward was taken with the merger of artemis and eniac to form the joint technology initiative 'electronic components and systems for european leadership' (itc ecsel), which started operations in 2014. supporting the work of the two joint undertakings is essential to support the research and development activity of the european union and to provide the necessary tools to ensure the emergence of new markets and new social applications. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ given that for the second year in a row the court of auditors considers that the quality of the european institute of innovation and technology's certification is compromised, as it was issued by audit firms chosen by the grant beneficiaries themselves, i did not intend to endorse the discharge to the eit with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) has used the funds allocated for its operation for the year 2013 in a manner that is in line with the budgetary rules.
in writing. ‒ vote against the measure granting discharge to the eit: the court of auditors itself considers that the quality of the certification is compromised as it is issued by independent audit firms commissioned by the beneficiaries of the grants.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors has confirmed in its statement the reliability, legality and regularity of the reporting operations carried out by the institute. the commission notes that the authority has not provided any evidence that the financial corrections provided by the institute are in line with the requirements of the 2014 guidelines. the authority has also introduced additional ex post checks for grant operations as a second level of assurance of the legality and regularity of the grant operations, carrying out 'on the spot' audits on around 40% of the grants under the 2013 agreements. on the basis of the sound financial management of the european institute of innovation and technology, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge for the implementation of its budget.
in writing. ‒ i thought it appropriate to vote against the granting of discharge because, although the eit has tried to improve its own situation, i am against the proliferation of joint ventures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision approving the closure of the accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013 and giving discharge to the director of the european institute of innovation and technology in respect of the implementation of the institute's budget for the financial year 2013. progress is being made in the ex-post verification system, procurement procedures and financial and monetary management; progress to the extent that it ignores certain shortcomings identified by the court of auditors in its 2013 annual report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr czarnecki on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013. the institute has improved its procurement procedures since 2013, cancelling the two framework contracts in 2010; in addition, it has revised internal procedures, circuits and templates to fully comply with the relevant public procurement rules, paying particular attention to sound planning and needs assessment. the institute ultimately took on additional procurement functioning in 2015 and conducted a number of procurement training for its staff. these points lead me, in line with my group, to vote in favour of the 2013 discharge of the eit.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors' report on the annual budgets of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) for the financial year 2013 shows that for the second year in a row, it was unable to obtain reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the grant operations. however, recent improvements in the eit's planning and control for budget implementation lead me to vote in favour of this proposal, which provides for the granting of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament proposed, in the first instance, to postpone the discharge of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology. the question now is whether or not to vote for the final discharge. the discharge was not granted because the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, found that it had not obtained for the second consecutive year reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the granting operations. furthermore, the court considered that the quality of the certification was compromised as this, covering around 87% of the grant expenditure, was issued by independent audit firms commissioned by the grant beneficiaries themselves. the institute has introduced complementary ex post verifications for grant operations as a second level of assurance of the legality and regularity of grant operations and has conducted 'on the spot' audits covering around 40% of grants awarded under the 2013 grant agreements. the report therefore calls on parliament to vote in favour of the discharge. i prefer to vote against to show my disapproval of the proliferation of agencies.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report on the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the implementation of the 2013 budget of the european institute of innovation and technology. the results are encouraging: the european institute of innovation and technology was able, through the audit, to improve the instructions given to auditors, as well as the quality of audit certificates. the institute conducted field audits recovering eur 263 239 and improved its procurement procedures.
in writing. following the court of auditors' report, which pointed out that for the second year in a row it had not obtained reasonable assurances as to the legality and regularity of the grant operations for the financial year 2013, the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) demonstrated that it had made improvements with regard to the planning and control procedures related to the implementation of the budget. the link between planned activities and resource allocation has also been strengthened, linking the annual work programme with the annual budget. the institute's efforts have led me to support the report.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2013, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, together with the institute's replies, i have decided to approve the closure of the accounts of the european institute for the financial year 2013, by granting the director of the european institute of innovation and technology discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ given the positive assessment expressed by the court of auditors in its report on the use of the budget for the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i note the financial situation and the annual accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology and welcome the improvements. i vote in favour without hesitation.
in writing. ‒ the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) has achieved the objectives of legality, accuracy and soundness in its budgetary operations, which are necessary in order to receive the discharge for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors of the eu has, in accordance with article 287 tfeu, submitted a detailed report on the accounts of the eit. this annual report does not reveal any irregularities of any note. i therefore approve the granting of discharge for the financial year 2013 to the european institute of innovation and technology.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the 2013 discharge of the european institute of innovation and technology as i support the decision of the european parliament to approve the closure of the institute's accounts and to grant the director of the eit discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. i voted against the decision requesting the discharge to be given to the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013: the discharge at first instance was not granted because the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the eit, found that it had not obtained for the second year in a row reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the granting operations. in other words, the court considered that the quality of the certification was compromised as this certification, covering around 87% of the grant expenditure, was issued by independent audit firms commissioned by the grant beneficiaries themselves. we are faced with a practice which is unfortunately all too common in this union: the eit is trying to remedy this situation, but i believe that my vote against the discharge should be interpreted as a strong signal against all the shady management that characterizes the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the european institute of technological innovation has implemented budgetary monitoring and programming procedures. the decision of the institute to take a more rigorous approach to all activities with expenditure exceeding eur 50 000 is welcomed. the eit has demonstrated a willingness to implement a serious planning of human and financial resources needs in order to schedule all its activities in a precise and transparent manner. another important element is the increasingly close link between planned activities and the allocation of resources and an increasingly strong link between the work programme and the budget. i voted in favour of the report because of the clear improvements in financial and budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ i did not intend to endorse the discharge to the eniac joint undertaking because of the reservations expressed by the court of auditors on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the annual accounts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the eniac joint undertaking has used the funds allocated for its operation for the year 2013 in a manner that is in line with the budgetary rules.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the discharge. the court of auditors itself said that the audit procedures were not reliable and truthful.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. this company was established in 2007 to define and implement a 'research agenda' for the development of core competencies for nanoelectronics in various application areas. artemis subsequently merged with eniac to create the joint technology initiative 'electronic components and systems for european leadership' (itc ecsel), which started its activities in june 2014 for the next decade. the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 appear to be the result of sound financial and budgetary management. internal control systems have also produced effective results. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. ‒ i thought it appropriate to vote against the granting of discharge because, although eniac has tried to improve its situation, i am against the proliferation of joint ventures.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to vote in favour of the measure approving the closure of the accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 and granting the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. the financial and treasury management is not problematic. progress is being made in implementing a plan to address the shortcomings in the control system identified by the court of auditors in its qualified opinion. the high productivity of the research results and the respect of the rules on the protection and transfer of research results are welcomed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for discharge to the eniac joint undertaking contained in the report by mr ryszard czarnecki. this joint undertaking merged with artemis in 2014 to create the joint technology initiative 'electronic components and systems for european leadership' which will be operational for a decade. as a group we have chosen to support the discharge of this undertaking and for that reason i am voting in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the eniac joint undertaking was established on 20 december 2007 with the objective of defining and implementing a 'research agenda' for the development of core competences for nanoelectronics in various application areas. the court of auditors has found that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2013, its results of operations and its cash flows for the year ended 31 december 2013, in accordance with the provisions of the joint undertaking's financial regulation and the accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer. i therefore vote in favour of this proposal, which provides for the granting of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, with the sole recommendation that effective measures be taken to control the movements of this undertaking, following the merger agreement with the artemis joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament proposed, in the first instance, to postpone the discharge to the eniac joint undertaking. the question now is whether or not to vote for the final discharge. the discharge was not granted because the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, expressed a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions due to the inability to assess whether the ex post audit strategy, which relies heavily on the national funding authorities (nfas) for the audit of project declarations of expenditure, provides sufficient assurance as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the joint undertaking has made progress in implementing the action plan to address the shortcomings identified by the court in its judgment with reservations: the report therefore calls on parliament to vote in favour of the discharge. although eniac has tried to improve its situation, in order to show its disapproval of the proliferation of joint ventures, i think it is appropriate to vote against the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report on the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking. although the court of auditors has previously expressed a reserved opinion on the annual accounts, the joint undertaking has made considerable progress in implementing the action plan to address the identified shortcomings. it is also true that we have to thank the private sector which has contributed a massive amount of funding to the joint undertaking, funding which has more than offset the decline in contributions from the member states.
in writing. the eniac enterprise was set up on 20 december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the aim of defining and implementing a 'research agenda' for the development of core competencies for nanoelectronics in various application areas. i have decided to vote in favour of discharge for the 2013 budget as the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 have been found to be in accordance with the provisions of the joint undertaking's financial regulation. i agree with the court of auditors that further assessments of the national guarantee systems are necessary following the merger of the eniac and artemis joint undertakings.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the final annual accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, and having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, i have voted in favour of approving the closure of the accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 and granting the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report giving discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, in the light of the positive report presented by the court of auditors on the annual accounts, together with the replies of the joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i am satisfied with the work of eniac and how its financial instruments have been used, not only as a european citizen but also as a citizen of one of the founding countries. i appreciate that the contributions from the states have respected the threshold imposed by the rules in force. i confirm that i shall vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ every year, parliament assesses the implementation of the budget in order to grant discharge. having regard to the court of auditors' report on the achievement of the objectives of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the eniac joint undertaking), which presented its financial position as at 31 december 2013, as well as its results of operations and cash flows for the year ended 31 december 2013, i have decided to vote in favour of granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the closure of the accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 and i support the decision of the european parliament to grant the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
in writing. i voted against the decision requesting the discharge to be given to the eniac joint undertaking: the court of auditors, in its report on the company's annual accounts, stated that eniac had carried out a limited examination of the declarations of expenditure and therefore the court was not in a position to conclude whether the key control of the ex post audit was functioning effectively. this limited examination was therefore not sufficient in itself to provide a guarantee on the error rate indicated by the joint undertaking. parliament had therefore not given discharge in the first instance: although the ecsel-ju into which the eniac has been merged has reassured parliament that it has taken corrective action, i believe that a negative vote was necessary to highlight how the need for effective controls is the basis of trust between taxpayers and public administration in all its aspects. there must be no suspicion whatsoever as to how the funds have been spent, and the lack of an effective control system prevents me from having confidence in eniac.
in writing. ‒ the recent merger of the artemis and eniac joint undertakings has led to the creation of the joint technology initiative 'electronic components and systems for european leadership' (ecsel itc), which will run for 10 years. eniac has played, and will continue to play, a decisive role in the development of technological research in europe. the resources allocated to this undertaking represent essential support for the development of advanced european technologies and a sector in which europe cannot fail to invest if it is to remain competitive in the global financial market. in recent years, considerable efforts and progress have been made both in financial and budgetary management and in respect of transparency criteria. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ given the continued lack of cooperation between the council and the european council with parliament on the budgetary issue and considering that the outstanding issues include both the real estate affairs of these institutions and the process of administrative modernisation, i voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the council has not provided any explanation for the increasing level of under-utilisation and commitments in its 2013 budget, despite an explicit request from parliament. i therefore consider that the european council and the council should not be granted discharge for the 2013 budget.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report rejecting the discharge. the outstanding issues include real estate, the process of administrative modernisation, and the continued lack of cooperation with parliament.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section ii european council and council. parliament is the only directly elected institution of the union and is therefore also responsible for granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union. all the union institutions should be transparent and fully accountable to the citizens for the way in which the funds at their disposal are spent, and in this respect the expenditure of the council should also be subject to scrutiny. yet the council continues to refuse to hand over the documents requested each year, thus undermining the right to information and transparency for the citizens of the union, and is a worrying symptom of a certain democratic deficit within the union's institutions which prevents parliament from taking an informed decision on granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ for the seventh consecutive year, the european parliament has proposed to postpone the discharge of the council's budget, i.e. to vote on whether or not to grant a final discharge. this report confirms that parliament is not in a position to take an informed decision on granting discharge and therefore calls for no discharge to be given to the council. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the right of european citizens to transparent information comes first. i would stress that my vote in favour of the report in this case implies a refusal of discharge. finally, i would like to remind you that parliament is the only european institution directly elected by the citizens and the council's continuing refusal to provide parliament with the necessary documents is a refusal to give citizens the right to ensure that european funds are properly administered and poses a serious problem for democracy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure refusing to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2013. i believe that the council's failure to submit the requested documents to parliament is a serious breach of the right of european citizens to information and transparency. i believe that this practice contributes to the loss of sensitivity of citizens towards the eu institution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr ryszard czarnecki on the discharge for the 2013 budget of the european council and the council. the report stresses that the institutions are individually responsible for the implementation of their budgets, but the rapporteur insists that council spending must be monitored in the same way as the institutions and that details must be communicated to those who may be interested in being informed.
in writing. ‒ while the institutions of the european union have administrative autonomy, they are required to cooperate and act in a transparent manner in order to be fully accountable for the management of funds entrusted to them by the citizens of the union. i therefore consider that the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2013 should be rejected.
in writing. ‒ for the seventh consecutive year, the european parliament has proposed, in the first instance, to postpone the discharge to the council. the question now is whether or not to vote for the final discharge. the report confirms that parliament is not in a position to take an informed decision on granting discharge and therefore calls for no discharge to be given to the council. article 335 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union recognises that the institutions of the union enjoy a certain degree of administrative autonomy in matters relating to their functioning: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is not subject to the same rules as the council. the council's continued refusal to provide parliament with the necessary documents is a refusal to give citizens the right to monitor the proper administration of european funds and poses a serious problem for democracy. the council seems to want to fight for power in order to maintain its supremacy over parliament, without taking into account the right of european citizens to transparent information. for the reasons stated above, i vote in favour and therefore refuse to grant the council discharge.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report on the granting of discharge.
in writing. as is well known, the treaty on the functioning of the european union gives parliament a major role in discharge of the budget. although each body has administrative autonomy in matters relating to the functioning of its institution, i believe that a greater degree of cooperation and transparency between parliament, the european council and the council is necessary. on this basis, i decided to vote in favour of the report, convinced that the dialogue between the institutions is a positive signal to be sent to the citizens of the union.
in writing. ‒ in order to ensure transparency and democratic accountability towards the union's taxpayers, i voted in favour of the report refusing to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2013. we are faced with a worrying democratic deficit within the union's institutions.
in writing. ‒ i am keen to stress here the need for transparency not only in the council but in all the european institutions as regards their expenditure. i also believe that there should be a high level of mutual control and cooperation in the field of informing the public. i stand by my position, i vote yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to reject the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, as regards the european council and the council. whereas all the institutions of the union should be as transparent as possible and fully accountable to the citizens as regards the management of the funds entrusted to them; taking into account the various agreements between the european parliament and the council and taking note of the observations made by the court of auditors on the progress of certain building projects in 2013, i share the requests of the court of auditors and the european parliament. the latter consider that, before granting discharge, it is necessary to resolve certain outstanding issues which have not yet been adequately addressed. i am concerned that the council has not submitted the requested documents to parliament. this behaviour, which is not in line with the principles of loyal interinstitutional cooperation, is primarily prejudicial to the right of citizens to information and transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the general budget of the european union european council and council as i support the decision of the european parliament to refuse to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2013.
in writing. i voted in favour of the decision not to grant discharge to the council: this is the seventh consecutive year that the european parliament has decided to send this politically strong signal in response to the council's decision not to recognise parliament's role in the discharge procedure. the council refuses to answer the questions which parliament sends to all the institutions and bodies of the european union on the statement of expenditure. in this way the council denies european citizens access to data on its administrative expenditure, effectively excluding the possibility of democratic control over the use of european citizens' money. the only body directly elected is parliament, and one of its tasks is to grant discharge after verifying that expenditure is correct. failure to recognise its role means diminishing all european citizens in their democratic role as voters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the council does not ensure the necessary transparency in providing financial information and reporting on expenditure, as the other institutions do. parliament asked the council for detailed information on the progress of the building projects and the management of the expenditure incurred so far, but received no reply. transparency is a key value in these cases.
in writing. ‒ for the seventh consecutive year, the european parliament has proposed, in the first instance, to postpone the discharge to the council. the report confirms that parliament is not in a position to take an informed decision on granting discharge and therefore calls for no discharge to be given to the council. the council's position is that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the budget is properly implemented. the report begins by pointing out that the council has not provided any explanation for the increasing level of under-utilized appropriations and commitments in its 2013 budget. in addition to raising the issue of administrative transparency, the council's attention is also drawn to the need to make the costs of the europa and residence palace buildings transparent. that is why i feel it is my duty to refuse to grant the council discharge.
in writing. ‒ looking at the recent ebola outbreaks in sierra leone, guinea and liberia, we applaud the international ngos, who immediately recognised the gravity of the situation and were at the forefront of fighting the virus as it spread. the rest of the world watched, probably hoping the fires would go out on their own. the delay in intervention caused thousands of deaths and, as we well remember, a risk of infection that went beyond africa's borders. at the moment, the interventions imposed by the imf and the world bank are only making an already tragic situation worse by actually requiring budget cuts in the public sector, for example in health care. the costs of dealing with humanitarian emergencies far outweigh the investment that can prevent them. the report calls for lessons to be learned from the ebola experience and denounces the unjustifiable international silence. that's why i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ following the ebola epidemic which has hit hard sierra leone, liberia and guinea, i support the report by mr goerens, who calls on the european union to help african countries with measures to support development and economic recovery in order to prevent the recurrence of humanitarian catastrophes such as ebola. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ although the media attention on the ebola crisis and the epidemic is waning, we cannot let our guard down in the face of a virus that continues to claim lives and from which we must learn many lessons. the management of the epidemic by local health services and international institutions has shown us how much work remains to be done to build effective health systems in the countries most affected by the disease, and how much needs to be done to address the structural shortcomings in prevention, hygiene standards, medical infrastructure and equipment, sufficient and properly trained health personnel, and access to medicines and basic health care. the eu has long been at the forefront of the drive for universal health coverage and the report we voted on continues in this direction, reiterating the will to allocate at least 20% of development aid to basic social services, including health as a priority. of course, it is also essential that the commission and the international community commit themselves to coordinating and strengthening in parallel efforts in the research and production of medicines and vaccines that are effective not only against ebola but also against other potentially lethal infectious diseases that are likely to develop into further epidemics.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced that the ebola crisis, although it was tackled in the right way, especially in terms of containing the epidemic on the african continent alone, has nevertheless revealed the shortcomings of the international response. it is therefore important that we learn the right lessons to improve our response capacity to prevent such catastrophes from happening again in the future.
in writing. ‒ sierra leone, liberia and guinea have been hit by the worst ebola outbreak in recent history since march 2014. the lack of sanitation, proper information and border controls has contributed to the spread of the virus in the area. we cannot ignore the fact that all three countries are characterized by severe poverty, as evidenced by the low undp human development index and by an average life expectancy of less than 60 years. social deprivation and poverty affect over 80% of the population and schooling rarely exceeds 3 years of schooling. the extreme vulnerability of the populations of sierra leone, liberia and guinea to the epidemic is therefore due to the seriousness of the situation in their countries. it is therefore clear that they cannot get out of the crisis on their own. the european union has not only a moral duty to support them but also an interest in working to stop epidemics which, if neglected, would spread beyond the areas of origin in an uncontrolled manner with obvious additional human and economic costs.
in writing. - i vote for it. the report calls on the commission to help the affected countries develop their public health systems so that they are able to meet basic health needs and to equip themselves with the necessary infrastructure to ensure that all their citizens have access to public health.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the ebola crisis, which contains the long-term lessons to be learned to prevent future crises and to support the development of a long-term strategy to help the hardest-hit countries to plan an effective and rapid response mechanism to health emergencies. strengthening national health systems is the only realistic and effective strategy to prevent the unexpected effects of contagion, such as ebola, and the emergence of similar emergencies in the future. the ebola crisis, with its enormous burden of death and suffering, has highlighted the structural shortcomings in many countries and reminded the european union of its responsibilities, which only too late realised the gravity of the situation.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to use the experience of the ebola virus as a lesson in order to be able to provide ready-made responses in similar cases in the future. if, in this case, international ngos, including emergency, have shown great responsiveness, the same cannot be said for the union and the international community in general. slowing down is the cause of many thousands of deaths. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i thought i had spoken favourably about the report on the ebola crisis. since march 2014, sierra leone, liberia and guinea have been hit by the largest ebola outbreak known to mankind, which has claimed more than 11,000 lives to date. the three countries in question rank lowest on the undp human development index. in the face of these structural deficits, the international community has shown inexcusable shortcomings in global governance, taking too long to react. only in september 2014, when the mandate of eu ebola coordinator was given to christos stylianides, the new commissioner for humanitarian aid, did the european council show strong political will to tackle the difficult situation. the rapporteur stresses that humanitarian ngos, with their unquestionable level of know-how, were the most effective actors in the first months of the fight against the virus, proving themselves better prepared than institutional actors to deal with the emergency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because i agree with the photograph taken by the rapporteur. clearly, sierra leone, guinea and liberia cannot do this alone. the complexity of the problem is an almost impossible challenge for these states, which have serious structural deficiencies in health. commissioner stylianides was tasked with tackling the ebola problem through research, innovation, crisis management and the deployment of medical personnel to the area. the division of tasks is established, and i think it is appropriate, as the eu, to assess the post-ebola situation now. the european union will have to be built on two levels: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that in general the crisis within the crisis caused by the epidemic has also brought to light the shortcomings of the european union in terms of humanitarian aid. i think it is very important to improve in this respect in order to bring the strength of the eu beyond the borders of europe.
in writing. ‒ the ebola epidemic has shaken the entire african region over the past two years, particularly sierra leone, liberia and guinea. the international community intervened late, probably underestimating the real gravity of the crisis at first. today we have realised that improvisation is no longer possible, but that some important structural gaps must be filled. first, it is appropriate to reflect on how to make the best use of the capacities of humanitarian actors in the future, to review the programming of the edf as well as the mff in order to adequately finance eu humanitarian actions, but above all to finance, as has been done in the last two years, research projects aimed at combating ebola through the development of vaccines, rapid diagnostic tests and clinical trials. it should also be borne in mind that the eradication of ebola requires not only improved health systems but also concrete support from the entire international community to deal with the threats to the economy and political and social stability of the countries concerned. that being said, i thought it appropriate to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the important role played in the early months of the ebola crisis by the various humanitarian ngos (including msf, red cross, emergency and others) who have demonstrated not only the ability to interpret the serious situation, but also to be the most effective and expert actors in operational terms, taking the fight against ebola to the front line. while ngos have shown themselves to be responsive and timely, international institutions and organisations have shown themselves to be ineffective, inadequate and slow in mobilising aid. in addition, the absence of who and the lack of research and development into drugs, diagnostics and vaccines has caused millions of deaths. the report aims to take the experience of the ebola virus as a lesson for immediate eu responses in the future; the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the programme. the report also argues that strengthening national and regional health systems is an integral part of global health governance. for all these reasons, i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report, which provides for measures to help sierra leone, liberia and guinea, which are suffering from the worst ebola epidemic ever.
in writing. with less than two years since the outbreak of the devastating epidemic that has dramatically affected west africa, it is time for a deep reflection on the socioeconomic actions that europe can take to facilitate post-emergency socioeconomic recovery in the most affected territories and on the need to develop a ready and long-term health action plan capable of responding to any alarm that may arise in the coming years in eu or third countries. the appointment of the eu ebola coordinator was a strong signal of european commitment to international healthcare actions, but now europe must be forward-looking and concrete, investing in post-ebola development plans for the territories most affected by the virus guinea, sierra leone and liberia and specifically providing for special reprogramming in the european development fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr goerens on the ebola crisis: long-term learning and how to empower health systems in developing countries to prevent future crises. the ebola outbreak has shown that the health systems of some african countries, including in particular sierra leone, liberia and guinea, are completely unable to respond adequately to any type of health emergency and it is clear that it is not possible to guarantee the population even a minimum level of adequate medical care. despite the long delay in the international bodies' understanding of the gravity of the emergency, the mobilisation and commitment of the european union ensured that the epidemic was almost completely eradicated and that it did not have even more serious consequences in the rest of the world. after the emergency phase, i believe it is of fundamental importance to open a period of reflection at international level, which should take into account development aid for the health sector and the organization of health systems in the african countries most affected by epidemics. finally, i stress the need to invest in scientific research on rare and neglected diseases and to ensure access to medicines irrespective of income and universal health coverage.
in writing. i shall vote in favour of the goerens report. the ebola outbreak that broke out in west africa in 2014 is the largest outbreak of the virus in history. the impact of mortality rates in the affected countries has been further exacerbated by the lack of adequate health facilities. the european union has allocated over €1.39 billion to defeat the virus and help contain the epidemic. i agree with what the report says about the importance of coordinated and effective action by the major international players to strengthen medical research and the production of effective drugs and vaccines against ebola.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report entitled 'ebola crisis: the long-term lessons and how to strengthen health systems in developing countries to prevent future crises'. the ebola epidemic, one of the deadliest outbreaks in the world to date, has killed more than 11 000 people and unfortunately continues to cause new cases. most of the deaths were recorded in sierra leone, liberia and guinea. action is needed to ensure the development of sound public systems in the field of social security and health, the construction of a sufficient number of sustainable and adequately equipped health infrastructures, an adequate number of appropriately trained health workers, access to sufficient medical supplies and sound health information systems. a comprehensive approach is needed covering different areas such as education and training, hygiene and food safety.
in writing. ‒ the scale and complexity of the current ebola epidemic is a real challenge for the people of sierra leone, liberia and guinea. the european union must respond to the three-state crisis by taking responsibility for promoting the right to universal health care. i agree with what is said in the report, and i believe that the crisis must be overcome not only by investments in health care but also by contributing to the economic recovery of the three countries.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased to take part in the vote on this document. i personally devote a great deal of my energy, as a representative of the public, to health policy because i firmly believe in the eu's decisive role in improving the health of europeans. in particular, as i have recently pointed out to the commission in a motion for a resolution, the ebola crisis seems to continue to threaten europe and any action to minimise the risk not only on our territory but also in a targeted way in the developing countries and the countries of origin of the virus is welcome and necessary.
in writing. ‒ the three countries most affected by the ebola virus sierra leone, liberia and guinea rank last in the undp (united nations development programme) human development index. the european union should therefore do more to help development, including investments in health, and to help the recovery of the economy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance and the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance, including the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. this sad experience will serve in the future to improve the responses of those sectors engaged in dealing with such health emergencies. that is why i have decided to support this report by voting in favour, because i believe that much more needs to be done to help the countries concerned to contain and eradicate the ebola epidemic.
in writing. ‒ the ebola virus outbreak in sierra leone, liberia and guinea has killed more than 11 000 people and exposed major structural health gaps in these countries. it is the european union's task to help these african states develop a public health system capable of guaranteeing the right to health care to every person in need of care. i am in solidarity with those who have contracted ebola and i hope that appropriate health measures will be found to eradicate this epidemic. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the report calls on the commission to help ebola-affected countries develop their public health systems so that they are able to meet basic health needs and to equip themselves with the necessary infrastructure to ensure that all their citizens have access to public health.
in writing. ‒ the ebola outbreak in sierra leone, liberia and guinea since 2014 has dramatically highlighted the serious structural health deficiencies of these three states and the need to step up international financial commitment in the field of humanitarian and development aid. i voted in favour of the report because it has the merit of drawing attention to the challenges of the post-ebola period and to the importance of providing adequate support to the economies of the countries affected by the crisis.
in writing. ‒ the ebola crisis was one of the biggest catastrophes in recent years. the inadequacy and slowness of the international response in the first months of the crisis were plain to see. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i would like to stress that the commission has taken a very careful look at the work of the commission and the international players, and i welcome his report, but i would also like to stress the need to promote medical and social support measures adapted to the specific and differentiated needs of women, men and families. weakening health systems due to the epidemic has amplified maternal mortality and reduced prenatal and neonatal care. gender gaps in education, already large, have been exacerbated by school closures. initiatives are needed to raise awareness of the disease and to discuss prevention and defeat. prevention programmes must be directed primarily at women, who, because of their role in the affected countries, have been at the forefront of the fight against ebola. social protection mechanisms for women and a programme for the many ebola orphans must also be set up.
in writing. ‒ since 2014, sierra leone, liberia and guinea have been hit by the largest ebola outbreak in human history. the vulnerability of these countries and the permeability of their borders have facilitated the spread of the virus, with dramatic consequences. the international community's response has been slow and belated, but effective. the eu, through the appointment of a commissioner for humanitarian aid, has sent a strong signal and reinforced its role as a strategic leader in crisis management. the role of the european institutions in containing the epidemic has been fundamental and decisive, but a serious analysis of what has happened cannot be ignored. important for this analysis is the post-ebola context: it is clear that the european development fund for these three countries needs to be reprogrammed and that the risk of general and structural underfinancing of the european union's humanitarian action must be avoided. europe has a responsibility towards these countries and the international community and must make available the necessary resources for the supporting activity in the cooperation it promotes. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on emission measurements in the automotive sector focuses its attention exclusively on nitrogen oxides and test tests which are recognised as being poorly matched to real driving conditions. so something has finally been done, but the problem with the text is what it does not say, what has been omitted, such as the question of public funds (research aid, state aid, various subsidies) used by manufacturers who have committed infringements. the text also does not address the possible lack of revenue for the states (since they granted tax advantages to theoretically 'virtuous' cars). the question of consumer protection is not addressed and there is also no reference to infringement proceedings to be opened against manufacturers who have falsified their tests. the text clearly avoids attacking the car industry. something had to be done now, clear rules had to be followed to avoid further battles, in which the only losers would be the citizens as always. the text is a good starting point, and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ my vote on the resolution is generally positive, as the content is acceptable as a whole. but there are a large number of omissions on key issues that should be considered in the interests of the environment, the rule of law, consumers, industry and workers. some examples, among others, are: the need to establish a european authority for car testing; the detailed investigation of the case, ascertaining why the various signals were not heeded; a comprehensive analysis of the appropriateness of the use of public funds by the manufacturers responsible for the fraud, with a view to applying the corresponding sanctions.
in writing. ‒ although the text is partly consensual, there are still parts which i consider to be partial and deliberately piloted towards a non-solution, such as the commission's proposal which calls for the preliminary tests to be more in line with driving conditions, but does not define what reference values should be in place in the period after the vehicle is registered. for all these reasons i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because, following the scandal involving the measurement of exhaust emissions from cars by volkswagen, it is necessary for the institutions of the european union to take action to punish those who have broken the rules and to prevent future breaches. we cannot allow the trust of millions of consumers to be betrayed in this way.
in writing. ‒ there can be no tolerance for environmental pollution caused by the automotive sector. any fraud committed by car manufacturers is to be strongly condemned: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament, the council and the commission. the commission must report to parliament as soon as possible on the results of its investigations and impose appropriate sanctions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. a random sample of car models shall be monitored annually in normal use and laboratory tests shall prevent falsifying practices such as over-inflating of tyres, removal of external rear-view mirrors, covering of body panels to reduce aerodynamic drag, removal of equipment such as stereo systems and testing at the maximum permissible ambient temperature.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on emission measurements in the automotive sector. in this resolution, parliament strongly condemned any fraud committed by car manufacturers and called on companies to take full responsibility for their actions and to cooperate unconditionally with the authorities in their investigations. it also called for fraud in emissions testing to be thoroughly investigated, stressing that the eu's emissions testing system should be strengthened to ensure that limits are respected and vehicles exceeding them are quickly detected. i voted in favour of the report because excess emissions have harmful effects, including very serious ones, on human health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ the resolution contains some serious omissions which have as their obvious objective the preservation of the political-industrial status quo. however, its overall content is acceptable and i have therefore voted in favour. but i want to emphasize the omissions, and therefore the additional actions that must be taken to protect the environment, the law, consumers, industry (especially smes in the car industry) and workers.
in writing. ‒ the recent scandal involving a well-known german car manufacturer has not only undermined european consumer confidence but has also revealed the many flaws in the co2 measurement system for vehicles. the effectiveness of eu policy and the credibility of ambitious reduction limits imposed on the sector have also been undermined to some extent. it is a serious matter and should open the political debate on the possibility of delegating to an independent body the supervision of tests to verify the conformity of emissions with the limits set by eu legislation. if it were decided to ban diesel engines, the future of the motor industry would be seriously jeopardized. i am thinking of all the workers in this sector. that is why the new real driving emissions test cycle must be regulated without further delay, to ensure that the mandatory targets for the automotive industry are met and to give european consumers the confidence to buy products that meet the declared values. we expect transparency in the handling of the case by the european commission and we expect it to report on the investigations it will conduct to clarify what happened.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's joint resolution on emission measurements in the automotive sector. air pollution causes over 400,000 deaths a year in europe, at an estimated cost of eur 940 billion a year. the automotive industry is one of the major drivers of growth and innovation and contributes to employment in many eu member states. the eu has set strict limits for nox emissions with euro 5 (limit value 180mg/km) and euro 6 (limit value 80mg/km) standards. parliament strongly condemned any fraud by car manufacturers, expressed concern at the long delay in the response of the commission and the member states to the serious and persistent overruns of emission limits and called on the commission to publish the results of the investigations in member states by 31 march 2016. the commission is also asked to speed up the introduction of the so-called 'real driving emissions' test, i.e. road tests.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. the car industry has a huge employment impact, and traditionally has had a particularly large impact in my home region. however, unless decisive action is taken, the current scandal risks damaging the reputation and competitiveness of the whole sector. i also stress that air pollution causes over 430 000 premature deaths per year in the eu and has an estimated cost in terms of health impacts of up to €940 billion per year; nox is one of the main air pollutants responsible for, among other things, lung cancer, asthma and many respiratory diseases, as well as for forms of environmental degradation such as eutrophication and acidification. finally, i believe it is essential that the commission and the member states quickly restore consumer confidence through concrete initiatives and make every possible effort to defuse the situation.
in writing. ‒ in the wake of the volkswagen scandal, the european parliament debated a motion for a resolution tabled by several political groups, which was intended to be a political manifesto of commitment to halting emissions cheating by car companies as soon as possible. the text that came to this house was the result of tough negotiations between the political groups and contained some agreeable indications for everything that is expected to happen in the near future, from measurements of emissions on the road to vehicle type approval. that is why i voted in favour of its approval. but at the same time we wanted to make it possible for the citizens to know the names of those who continue to represent industrial interests in parliament. that is why we tabled amendments in the house which the main political groups had dropped from the original text and which provided, among other things, for the extension of the investigation to all brands and the obligation to return the tax incentives which had been granted to the car manufacturers whose fraud had been established. the names of those who did not want the return of public money allocated to the purchase of less polluting cars are thus available to anyone who wants to know.
in writing. ‒ the joint resolution i supported summarises the european parliament's position on the recent emissions scandal involving the volkswagen car manufacturer, which has had a serious impact on the reputation of the whole european manufacturing sector. the gravity of the facts ascertained so far requires that the european institutions, together with the member states, intervene with urgency and radicalism. i therefore believe that it is necessary to define higher common standards and to strengthen the reliability of emissions tests at european level, so as to ensure that an effective measurement system in real driving conditions (real drive emission) is applied without further delay. i also think that more transparent and careful control systems should be defined, including measures such as the creation of an independent european type-approval authority. the european union cannot allow the unfair behaviour of individual producers to call into question the credibility of the whole european manufacturing industry. it is therefore necessary to strengthen the european system of supervision and control of consumer goods and to restore as soon as possible the full confidence of consumers in the quality of products 'made in europe'.
in writing. in the wake of the volkswagen scandal, the european parliament debated a motion for a resolution tabled by several political groups, which was intended to be a political manifesto of commitment to halting emissions fraud by car companies as soon as possible. the text that came to this house was the result of tough negotiations between the political groups and contained some agreeable indications as to what is expected to happen in the near future, starting with the measurement of road emissions for the type approval of vehicles. that is why i voted in favour of its approval. but at the same time we wanted to give the public the opportunity to know the names of those who continue to represent industrial interests in parliament. that is why we tabled amendments in the house which the main political groups had dropped from the original text and which provided, among other things, for the extension of the investigation to all brands and the obligation to return the tax incentives which had been granted to the car manufacturers whose fraud had been established. the names of those who did not want the return of public money allocated to the purchase of less polluting cars are thus available to anyone who wants to know.
in writing. ‒ this report is not objectively balanced. it does not focus on the real issue on the agenda. we are all aware that the parameters set by the eu were unrealistic and unrealisable. the european parliament has already been given a mandate to make a statement on the situation in the baltic sea. in this respect, the volkswagen problem is therefore serious but relative. the resolution is not going to be accepted and i will have to abstain.
in writing. the recent volkswagen case has inevitably raised a number of alarms and concerns in the union and the world, and we must give our voice and respond to them, to help us re-integrate the eu's development and growth plans into a market framework that is not only economically competitive but also safe for our health and the environment. the challenge for the eu, and for its products and activities, is to ensure that the future of trade is also sustainable in practice. i therefore support the proposal to adopt a series of measures to ensure that the recent events in the volkswagen case do not happen again and that consumers can regain their confidence by increasing their choice of eu products as a guarantee of a healthy and controlled market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on emission measurements in the motor vehicle sector because i believe that the parliament as a whole must send a strong signal on such an important issue as the emission of pollutants from passenger cars. the vw scandal has highlighted the shortcomings of the european system: inadequate regulation, which has allowed the use of technologies and devices to circumvent regulatory obligations, poor controls, the absence of a single supervisory body, the influence of lobbies. the environment is a common good, as is air quality, which is why we need clear and strict eu rules that leave no room for discretion, and above all new european supervisory authorities. i agree with the calls for new real driving tests, a new eu type-approval process with a single responsible authority, new emissions legislation and a rapid implementation of euro 6 engines. we are asking above all that workers do not pay for the wrong choices of management by laying off workers, that the company finances compliance with environmental legislation with its own profits rather than cutting costs, and that the protection of employees is ensured at all levels, including european.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the joint motion for a resolution on emission measurements in the automotive sector, which expresses the european parliament's concern about the recent scandal involving the volkswagen car manufacturer. i think it is serious that consumers have been misled and that european regulations on the control of emissions from diesel-powered vehicles have been repeatedly violated. in particular, it is unacceptable that false information has been given about vehicles, which has endangered the health of citizens as well as the environment in which we live. i firmly believe that citizens must continue to have confidence in the rules and controls provided for by european legislation and that is why stricter investigations into the results of emission tests will be necessary, also for the future. i also believe that there is a need to improve the monitoring of the implementation of eu environmental legislation and that the establishment of a specific body is of paramount importance. the union and its citizens need a harmonised european regulatory and control system, focusing on the strengthening and reliability of emissions testing.
in writing. after the volkswagen case we have become convinced that fraud has been committed in the type approval tests of cars, as the limits for nitrogen monoxide emissions have been deliberately exceeded for many years by one of the largest and most powerful car manufacturers. in the wake of the scandal, we asked the european commission to carry out the necessary investigations urgently and, above all, to keep parliament constantly informed of the results of the investigations. we have had a discussion with commissioner bieńkowska in the envi committee on this subject, and i believe that cooperation between all the institutions is most necessary in order to find a solution as soon as possible. but we should also ask the member states responsible for the controls how it is possible that these cars have passed the type approval tests. it is our task to ensure that future generations have the cleanest and least polluted environment possible, and we will therefore work together with the other european institutions and the member states to achieve this objective.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the motion for a resolution. parliament, with its direct democratic mandate, has an imperative to make its voice heard in the face of the breaches of environmental and consumer protection rules perpetrated by the volkswagen group. in addition to damaging the interests and protection of consumers, any intentional act could have deteriorated the health of citizens. i therefore support the call for the european commission and the competent national authorities to launch an investigation into the manipulation of co2 measuring devices. once the responsibility and scope of the fraud have been clarified, consumer confidence will need to be restored by providing fair compensation. the cost of this must not, however, be passed on in any way to the workers directly or indirectly involved in the production chain of volkswagen. the explicit condemnation in the resolution must, by means of an innovation in the current legislation, ensure that this does not happen again in the future. i therefore agree with the introduction of compulsory road tests during the type approval and certification processes for motor vehicles. to this end, i support the establishment of a genuinely independent and single authority at european level, responsible for the verification and application of the regulations in force, which will ensure greater uniformity and uniformity in this area.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for the work he has done, which i have seen, and i confirm my positive vote.
in writing. ‒ i could not help but approve this joint motion for a resolution tabled in the wake of the scandal over the nitrogen oxide emissions from certain diesel vehicles. i think that the european commission has been very slow to react to the publication of evidence of serious breaches of the emission limit values. this is why strong calls should be made for increased emission controls and for the introduction of a real driving emissions test for all vehicles type-approved or registered from 2015 onwards by 2017. it is important to adopt and implement as soon as possible the new test cycles for measuring real-world driving emissions, providing for increased control by the commission, in particular as regards market surveillance, coordination and the follow-up system for vehicles sold in the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on emission measurements in the automotive sector because i believe that parliament has an obligation to express its opinion on such a sensitive matter. i think it is important to stress the importance of the difference (not so much emphasized in the text) between the emission limits that pollutants can create and the respect of the rules already in place in europe. the case which gave rise to the decision to write a resolution arises from the failure to comply with european standards which are already concerned with the health of citizens and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on emission measurements in the automotive sector, in which parliament takes a clear stand in favour of transparency and the protection of human health. with this resolution, we support the european commission's call for national authorities to carry out in-depth checks on various types of vehicles to detect any fraud in emissions tests and to sanction those responsible appropriately. we also call on the commission to adopt and implement as soon as possible a new system for testing emissions from real driving, extending the verification of emissions from nitrogen oxides (nox) to other pollutants. the resolution calls for the establishment of a european supervisory authority to conduct the tests in full independence and transparency. these measures are necessary to remedy a situation which threatens to jeopardise not only the entire european automotive industry but also the eu's air quality policy aimed at protecting the health of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution but i think it is grossly lacking in transparency and accountability from the commission, which has done nothing despite knowing about the 'discrepancies' between the emissions of some vehicles during laboratory tests and actual emissions. the polluter pays, but the cheater pays too. we are facing a fraud against the states which for years have provided incentives to buy 'greener' cars at the expense of the taxpayer. we will fight for exemplary punishment, not just monetary punishment. we must denounce those who are covering up the activities of a faulty industry and in particular the fraudulent activities which have been carried out over the last few years by vw. the resolution we voted on was intended to be a strong criticism of what has happened and to underline the need to identify those responsible. in the course of the negotiations which led to the joint motion for a resolution, however, the name volkswagen disappeared from the text and only the forward-looking concepts survived, without any further commitment to identifying those responsible for what happened.
in writing. the future actions and the considerations set out in the text of the resolution are certainly to be welcomed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. i would also like to express my concern about the consequences along the supply chain, particularly for smes, which are facing enormous difficulties because of the fraud that has taken place. however, despite my vote in favour of the resolution, i would like to express my regret at the rejection of our proposals which called for equally important actions, such as the extension to all member states and to all car manufacturers of the obligation to carry out thorough checks on the emissions of vehicles produced, the refund in the event of irregularities of any tax incentives, if any, the need for detailed, accessible and transparent information on the checks carried out and the establishment of a committee of inquiry by the european parliament following what has happened. so despite the goodness of the text proposed, i think that some of the most important points could have been implemented more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector because it is unacceptable that the european consumer is misled about the real value of polluting emissions from vehicles. emissions which, among other things, have harmful effects on health and the environment. the commission must take appropriate investigative action and must commit itself to a european authority to monitor the implementation of the legislation in force. finally, we must ensure that the effects of the wrong decisions of top managers do not fall on the workers.
in writing. ‒ i have personally pushed for parliament to adopt a resolution on emission measurements in the automotive sector. the credibility of our institutions and our industries at international level is at stake today. it is more appropriate than ever to call for fraud in emissions testing to be thoroughly investigated and to stress that those responsible must be sanctioned appropriately. i think the resolution is timely and measured, particularly where it calls for the eu's emissions testing system to be strengthened. i would remind you, in conclusion, that although those responsible for fraudulent behaviour will undoubtedly be sanctioned, this must in no way harm the workers in the industries involved, who must not pay for mistakes made at management level.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because it represents a small step towards transparency in order to establish responsibility for failure to comply with environmental and consumer protection standards, and to punish offenders. the text, although with some limitations, calls for the establishment of an impartial european authority in the field of car tests, for an investigation into the case, including the fault of those who remained silent, for the recovery of european funds used and for the application of appropriate sanctions. i believe that more can be done to improve european governance of the automotive sector and to open infringement proceedings against manufacturers who have falsified their tests. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's internal market is not undermined by the introduction of new technologies. the european commission must also be held accountable for its inaction in the light of internal reports prepared by the research centres which show that the irregularities had been known for at least four years.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today the european commission, meeting here in strasbourg, wanted to send a strong signal about the adoption of the 2016 work programme, saying that it is no longer the time for conventional management. i would therefore like to highlight some cross-cutting and strategic issues which will certainly require 'unconventional measures'. whatever the practical configuration of the 2016 work programme, it is important to draw on some of the lessons that the european union has learnt in 2015. first of all , the greek lesson: the dynamics that have led one eu country to experience widespread and pervasive poverty must be prevented; we expect to see a major legislative implementation in this area. the lesson from libya and syria: the failure to act strategically has put us in dangerous and urgent situations. the european union has a long-standing commitment to the development of a european security and defence policy. the volkswagen lesson: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. what if the fraud had involved food or pharmaceutical products? we expect the appropriate legislative initiative. three economic themes that will accompany us throughout 2016 deserve a separate reflection: the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. we call for an 'unconventional' impact assessment of macroeconomic policies and major trade agreements. the commission has repeatedly shown itself to be shortsighted in concentrating its efforts on impact assessments. the same mistake is being made in the case of china's esm. we call for the states, each in its own area of competence, to produce assessments of the expected impact on their own economies. the commission will be responsible for summarizing and providing the other european institutions with a map of the countries on which the sun will shine and those on which the clouds will be thicker. and we want to pass the principle that if even one country - one country - should be caught in the storm, that is not good for europe as a whole. finally, i would like to mention a figure which, above all, expresses the present state of europe. the latest eurostat figures show that one in four european citizens is living in poverty. we believe that measures such as the citizens' income and microcredit are not only a means of promoting economic development, but are also a fundamental instrument for signalling that europe is rediscovering its identity and its most authentic values of solidarity. and that is what we are asking the commission to focus its efforts on in 2016. finally, the better regulation model must meet the challenge of involving the local level, not just the insiders. it is challenged to interpret geographical diversity in terms of the economic impact of legislative policies, and this can only be done by decentralising the public consultation process and aggregating data by macro-region.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the desert of this house tells us that the commission of the soviet union lives on another planet. immigration is a disaster. this morning president juncker told us that after months of talk and triumphs, the good result achieved is that only nine countries have offered to take in 700 immigrants a few hundred thousand are missing. and someone is thinking of bringing turkey into europe. no , i 'm not . turkey has never been, is not and will never be europe, and no one should dare to use immigration as a bargaining chip and blackmail to sell out the rights of european citizens. you can't hear anything about the war winds that are blowing. what are the commission and parliament going to do to exterminate isis, which is driving hundreds of thousands of people from their homes? are we going to go ahead with the insane economic sanctions against russia, which have caused 2 billion euros in damage to italy alone this year? are human rights in ukraine worth more than the syrian human rights trampled underfoot by isis, funded by those who facilitate this clandestine invasion? i think it is shameful that this europe which has asked italy and all the other countries to make sacrifices for pensions and work should only find flexibility when immigrants are involved. nothing about china's market economy, which someone in this building would like to take to export its machinery and which would produce hundreds of thousands more unemployed. nothing on the protection of 'made in' and the mandatory labelling of products, which would protect consumers and producers and which would avoid 60 billion euro in damage for italy alone. we're taking away extra protections from our people. this year, 80 000 tonnes of rice from vietnam are arriving without controls, 35 000 tonnes of olive oil from tunisia without controls, there are more unemployed in europe and more people are landing in europe: something's not working. fortunately, when people vote, they choose: the european parliament has voted in vienna, it has voted in poland, next year it will vote in the referendum in britain. i hope that he can choose in italy too, and then it will be clear that this europe is a cage from which the sooner we get out, the better for everyone.
president of the council. madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, madam vice-president of the commission, it is an honour for me to be here today for this debate which is in a relatively favourable starting point, as we have made good progress so far. we have managed to adopt seven amending budgets very quickly and an eighth is about to be adopted. we have a payment plan to absorb arrears, so we have a calm starting point, which is what distinguishes this year's situation from last year's. as regards the political approach to the amendments which the european parliament intends to adopt, i must nevertheless stress that the council notes that there is a significant increase in the draft budget presented by the european parliament and that its proposals would increase commitment appropriations by more than eur 4.15 billion and payment appropriations by eur 4.34 billion. it is true that since the council's proposal of 4 september there has been commission letter of amendment no 2 which arrived on 14 october and which is very welcome, since it aims to strengthen headings 3 and 4 of the multiannual financial framework to respond to the refugee crisis. but even in comparison with the revision made by the commission's letter of amendment, which is very ambitious, parliament's amendments still fall short of the 2 billion euro in payments and the 2.5 billion euro in commitments. the substantial increases in credit proposed by the european parliament would also result in the ceilings of the multiannual framework being exceeded by a negative margin of eur -1.5 billion in commitments and eur 1.3 billion in payments. if we follow the european parliament's amendments, the margins for headings 1a, 1b and 3 would be negative and those for heading 4 would be completely exhausted. it seems to me that the approach taken by the european parliament is either too maximalist or too ambitious, and the special instruments that the european parliament would like to use would not even cover the proposed credit overruns for 2016. while we can agree as the council that it is important to address the political and historical challenges we face, particularly in the area of refugees, it is still fundamental to realise that there are other priorities as well. the commission has attempted to meet this challenge with letter of amendment no 2, which proposes to substantially strengthen headings 3 and 4. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. the european parliament has not sufficiently applied the rules necessary to establish priorities: not all projects, not all programmes can be priorities at the same time. the council, for its part, has respected the ceilings in all headings and subheadings, and has thus been able to give itself the necessary and sufficient margin of manoeuvre. this is good not only for budgetary discipline but also for responding to the challenges and emergencies that lie ahead in 2016. the european parliament has very quickly decided to backtrack on the agreement reached in the middle of the year to make the european fund for strategic investments possible, and that is regrettable. on point 1b, parliament proposes to increase the appropriations when the commission has found a way to increase the appropriations needed for greece from existing appropriations in 2015 and 2016: this is not very logical. on the youth employment initiative, there was an agreement to limit it to 2014 and 2015, and if we wanted to plan something for 2016, we should do so after an evaluation. parliament proposes an increase of 500 million in agricultural expenditure, whereas the commission, in its letter of amendment on agriculture, has found different means and has even planned a reduction of 477 million in commitments and payments. in conclusion, i would like to stress the importance which the council attaches to respecting the reduction in the number of staff in all the institutions, bodies and agencies, as stated in the agreement that has been concluded and according to the staff establishment plans of 1 january 2013. this reduction should be made without exception and without any special or unilateral derogation, because the credibility of our institutions is at stake. madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, you can count on the willingness of the luxembourg presidency of the council to reach a balanced and satisfactory agreement on the 2016 budget, with the intention of doing so within the time limits laid down by the treaties.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, we are here today to discuss how to make best use of the eu budget to respond to the significant challenges the eu is facing. for the draft budget 2016 we have prioritised three objectives: to boost our economies, fill the investment gap and enhance economic recovery. for this we will leverage our budget instruments. i am very happy to report what we have done together. the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) is now operational, and we expect that it will trigger eur 50 billion in additional investments – public and private – by the end of this year, 2015. for 2016 we expect an acceleration of delivery for our economies. our second objective is to address the exceptional migratory pressures faced by the eu, and our draft budget proposal makes maximum use of the flexibility allowed. we will therefore more than double funding over this and next year to address the refugee crisis. our third objective remains very important. it is to phase out the abnormal backlog of unpaid bills from the 2007-2013 programming period by the end of 2016. so in our draft proposal we believe we have put forward a sound basis on which to achieve these three objectives. let me first address commitment appropriations, including amending letter 2. we welcome the amendments proposed by the committee on budgets to restore the cuts made by council. life has shown that we need to move forward in 2016, especially given the dramatic impact of the refugee crisis. we need to provide room for collective eu-level action, in heading 4 especially. we also take note of a number of amendments that increase commitment appropriations above the draft budget proposal made by the parliament. we will fully employ the maximum flexibility test that is allowed by the current financial framework to respond to the challenges, and we want to do this in a prudent manner. we all agree that migration should now be given highest priority. this should guide us through the choices that have to be made and the choices we will have to make. we have to be sure that budget 2016 is done in a way that allows us to face what is unfortunately a more uncertain future. i want to stress that for many in this house there has been concern about the youth employment initiative. as a result of the major frontloading that we have done in 2014 and 2015 – and which will continue and even accelerate in 2016 – we expect to see progress on the ground in terms of jobs for our young people. we will make a first assessment of this experience at the end of this year, and that will allow us to have more informed actions in 2016. let me now turn to payment appropriations. here there is a large gap of eur 4.3 billion between the council’s and the parliament’s reading. the level of payment appropriations proposed in draft budget 2016, as revised by amending letter number 2 (with more than eur 914 million in payments) allows the proper implementation of programmes and enables us to meet our third objective, the phasing out of the abnormal backlog in line with the agreed payment plan. this will only happen if parliament and council agree on the payments requested by the commission for 2016. again i want to turn to the parliament’s committee on budgets and thank it for the restoration of most of the appropriations that we have put forward. it is now time for us in the commission to take a very good look at the council and parliament proposals and carefully review each and every one of the amendments in detail. we will then send our reaction in writing, prior to the opening of the conciliation, so that the three institutions can negotiate with full knowledge of the choices we are making and the implications of these choices. i will conclude by saying that i am confident that we will have successful negotiations. we all recognise how important it is for europe that we send a clear signal of commitment to serve our people and to meet the challenges that we face.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the transport committee has been very apprehensive about the construction of this budget, because as we know we are facing great challenges, the new challenges posed first of all by the juncker plan. on the other hand, we risked that support for this great new opportunity for europe would also become a tool to drain resources from other instruments that are already working, such as the cef and horizon 2020. we have achieved, and i thank the rapporteurs for their careful chairmanship in this respect, a fair balance between the two requirements: new financing instruments for investment that europe needs and support for instruments that already work. because europe has and european businesses have - especially the smallest, small and mediumsized enterprises - if we have a large network of links for people, goods and data. we have voted today on a report on the circulation of data. we need infrastructure in that respect too, so that europe can support all those who can generate value.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking the two rapporteurs and the commissioner for the hard work they have put in over the past few months. the european parliament has expressed in its position some priorities which are also ours, starting with a greater commitment by europe to tackle the issue of immigration. i have been insisting since i began my experience in this house that this issue must be at the centre of our efforts and commitments. some of my colleagues who are here today were with me in sicily in july and have seen how difficult it is to manage this emergency which italy and the other border countries are not able to sustain on their own. the european budget is not only a set of priorities to be supported, but also a set of wasteful expenditures and privileges which cannot be tolerated. why should public funds be increased each year for european political parties and foundations? what is the need for further increases in expenditure for parliamentary assistants or political groups in this parliament? i also ask you what is the added value of institutions such as the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions, which have no legislative function but burn hundreds of millions of euros of public money every year. we must be the first to set an example to the citizens whose sacrifices we constantly ask. it is not by increasing the costs of european politics and bureaucracy that we can be credible. i think we have a long way to go on this.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in these years we have fought for the implementation of all european policies and every year the budget has been a constant battle for the implementation of all political projects and policies. on behalf of the committee on budgets, i would simply like to stress some of the needs we have identified in our areas of responsibility. on the one hand, there are those related to climate research, climate change, health. but there is one issue which is particularly close to our hearts and which we would like to see addressed in the budget. it is clear that some of the agencies - and i am referring to the european medicines agency and echa - are no longer able to carry out their functions, even if the resources for carrying out their functions come from outside, simply because they no longer have the necessary staff resources. the work is increasing, the tasks we are entrusting are increasing, but we must adapt the action plan of the agencies, otherwise they will not provide the services required.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr fernandes for the work he is doing with dedication and knowledge. the text of the opinion, for which i am rapporteur on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, stresses the need to allocate part of eu spending consistently to initiatives aimed at ensuring gender equality in all areas. in particular, my colleagues and i ask that the importance of funding programmes to support women's entrepreneurship be emphasised, mainly through cosme, the european social fund and the youth employment initiative. i also ask, in the light of the many femicides and acts of violence that women suffer on a daily basis, that the expenditure to support awareness and awareness campaigns against gender stereotypes and the need to preserve the independence of the daphne programme, the very programme that is within the rights, equality and citizenship programme, be increased. finally, i insisted that the document should include a reference to the need to establish a european monitoring centre on gender-based violence. i've run out of minutes.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank mr fernández and mr deprez for the work they have done and will continue to do. in closing, i would like to make four short remarks. one: the debate today has shown that there is indeed a lot of demand for the european budget and there is pressure on the european budget to deliver on multiple objectives. many of you have said that what this means is that we have to work together, the three institutions, to prioritise and make sure that funding goes where it is most needed. from the perspective of the commission, we have been working over the last year to execute our budget best to manage the money we have in the best possible way and then, when we hit a wall – when we run out of money – to look for any possible flexibility we have to meet a demand. we have always been guided by what you, the parliament, the council, and our citizens, are saying – what they expect from us. they expect us to help our economy. they expect from us to deal with crisis when it hits, and let us remember that we now have the refugee crisis, before that it was the greek crisis, and before that we had nature hitting us very hard, as some of you have mentioned. to deal with long—term development for the union, and at the same time be agile, be able to respond, is what we have tried to get better at. that takes me to my second point, because we will need it. i do not know what the next crisis is going to be, but i know it will hit us because the world we live in is a fast moving world, and it is shock—prone. shocks that come for economic reasons and shocks that come because of climate change and conflict. external problems then turn into internal ones and we have to have space in our budget to be able to respond. my third point is on the significance, as we work on this annual budget, of also looking ahead. looking ahead brings the very important subject of own resources. we will have a report coming: it will be in 2016, when there will be a debate on this topic, and will fit into our next multiannual financial perspective and will be part of our discussion on the mid-term review. this is my fourth and last point: many of you brought up the mid-term review. yes, it will be a moment in time when we can seriously address the new challenges in front of us, what we collectively can do, but we will be faced with questions of the kind ‘what is to give’, because when we are faced with new challenges we have to recognise that the resources we have are never going to be unlimited. at the point in time of the mid-term review, we have to be guided by how we can get the best value for the money our citizens are trusting us with, in a changing world where new priorities also have to be integrated. we have our work cut out for us, and i am very much looking forward to the days and nights that are coming ahead for parliament, the council and the commission to come up with the best possible judgement, the best possible budget for 2016.
president of the council. mr president, i should like to say first of all that i have listened very carefully to all the speeches and that i will of course report back to my colleagues in the council on the substance of your discussions here in the european parliament. i think we actually have three anchor points that we can work around. the first is the council's position, the second is the european parliament's position, and the third is, of course, the commission's letter of amendment no 2, which takes account of the necessary increase in appropriations for the refugee question. it is around these three areas that we must find a compromise. i am very hopeful that we can achieve this through three principles and i agree with commissioner georgieva. the first is that we must set priorities. not everything can be prioritized at the same time and to the same degree. with a little prioritization, we'll find a way. the second point, which the commission has made clear in its letter of amendment, is that we must make redeployments and make the best use of the flexibilities we have. this will indeed allow us to find compromises. third and last, we must leave some room for manoeuvre for the unforeseen events of the coming year. we cannot use all the resources available in the compromise we are hopefully going to find together. i would like to thank the two rapporteurs, josé manuel fernandes and gérard deprez, and president jean arthuis, with whom i have been able to build a relationship of trust over the past weeks and months. i commend them for their enthusiasm and look forward to working with them in the spirit of loyal cooperation we have established and which will certainly be useful to us. i am glad and i congratulate mrs georgieva on what she has already done, and we shall indeed spend days and nights together, and i can assure you that the luxembourg presidency will do so with enthusiasm and rigor.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 28 october at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in israel and palestine.
vpc/hr.– mr president, i apologise for being a little late but i was sharing our common work with the chairs of the delegations; here is one, i was faster than him. the last time we met here in this chamber to discuss our common work on the middle east peace process and israel and palestine was only six weeks ago. back then we all agreed on something: that the stalemate in the peace process – indeed the lack of a peace process – could only lead to more violence, and this is what we are seeing today. it has happened time and again and it has been happening in dramatic ways in recent weeks. the new wave of violence and terror is affecting innocent israelis and palestinians. there is not, and there cannot be, any excuse for terror. incitement and violence must end. the response of security forces needs to be proportionate and consistent, regardless of who is the perpetrator. it is now mostly up to the political leaders on the two sides to get out of the current impasse and to show leadership, most of all to show leadership. showing leadership is much more difficult when the situation gets more difficult, but this is also when it is most needed. both leaderships have a responsibility to contain the violence and to promote calm. they have an interest in doing this for their own people and they have a general responsibility towards the region and the rest of the word to make sure that the situation does not inflame on the religious level and spread across the globe. last week i met with prime minister netanyahu. i met president abbas in brussels just yesterday evening to pass on exactly the same message. you need to take leadership, strong positions and first and foremost to try to calm the situation on the ground. and the international community is and will be with you in this respect. they acknowledged that they need to work together in partnership to end the current unrest. and this is something relevant, but also something that needs to be tested for real. obviously our thoughts today and in these days are with all the victims, with all the families, with all the people that are suffering on the ground. but as we try to de-escalate the crisis we must not lose sight of the underlying causes of tensions, the frustrations, the sense of insecurity, the lack of hope and the lack of a political horizon. without that political horizon any de-escalation that we might even achieve – as difficult as that may be – will only last for a limited time, and we will go back again and again to the cycle of violence. we said this last year at the end of the conflict in gaza. we are here one year later saying the same thing. our first priority must be to build the conditions for final status talks based on mutual steps. for this to happen we need significant policy shifts on the ground. we need this policy shift to happen in line with previous agreements that need to start being implemented. we have to find an entry point to the process for it to start again. by this we mean not only restarting the political process, restarting the talks, restarting negotiations. we, the israelis and the palestinian people all know very well that talks for the sake of talks, negotiations for the sake of negotiations, would not bring anything real on the ground unless we create real conditions for the people, firstly, to live and, secondly, to live better, their respective lives. when we talk about this we mean concrete steps in the context of a political process: de-escalating the security aspect, ending violence, implementing concrete steps on the ground in line with prior agreements and creating the conditions for the political horizon. these are three elements we need to work on in parallel with the support of the international community. we mean measures that help the palestinians take control over their lives and uphold israel’s security, not just negotiating, not just for the sake of doing something, but to reach concrete results. these goals must be pursued in parallel: de-escalation on the ground, concrete steps to implement agreements that have already been signed and keeping the perspective of the political horizon of the final settlement. these three elements must go together, this is more urgent than ever. in new york last month and in vienna last friday the quartet’s principles articulated this message loud and clear. it was the european union’s choice to use the quartet as a format for the international backing of these efforts. from this recent round of meetings, including with secretary of state kerry in berlin, i retain the commitment of prime minister netanyahu to guarantee the status quo in the holy sites and the desire of all parties to de-escalate the situation on the ground. i also welcome and support secretary of state kerry’s initiative to address the situation in the holy sites highlighting the role of jordan in this, which is key. in the next few weeks the quartet envoys will engage directly with the parties. it is now up to the israeli and the palestinian leadership to demonstrate, with acts, that their commitment to the two-state solution is real and not fake, not just a slogan. if prime minister netanyahu and president abbas now fail to work together, if they do not cooperate to stop the violence, if they do not rebuild a credible political process, the situation will only get worse for their own people. the regional context is as tense as it could be, even if this is a sentence we should never say because it could always turn worse. we do not want to see an old conflict such as this one mix with a newer crisis in the neighbouring countries. the conditions around israel and palestine are today much, much more dangerous than they were decades ago. this is a risky time, for the people in israel and in palestine alike. and if the leaderships do not understand that now is not ‘business as usual’ in terms of managing this long-established conflict in the way we are all used to – although we never have never got used to a conflict that brings so much death and suffering – and realise that now it more urgent than ever to solve it, then there would be little that the international community could do to support a process. and the mix of old and new, of history and religious elements, at this moment in the region would be explosive, not only for the people involved but for all of us. peace between the israelis and the palestinians is in the interest of all of us, in the region and beyond. it is for this reason that we invited – again on a european initiative – key arab countries to join our quartet meetings. think of how relevant egypt can be for gaza and jordan for the holy places – something we are seeing every day – and saudi arabia for relaunching the arab peace initiative and adapting it to today’s world. only in a renewed regional framework is peace possible. the arab partners have stressed to me their readiness to work with the quartet in the coming months. we have already started to work together with them but, like us, they need to see determined leadership by the parties. we can build all the international and regional support imaginable, but they first have to take responsibility for showing leadership in their own societies and communities. recent events should serve as a warning. if anyone still believes that we can just manage the current crisis, contain it a little bit and wait for the next one, they are wrong. this is not going to continue like this. every cycle of violence is going to be worse than the previous one, and this will destroy the middle east. so now is decision time. israeli and palestinian leaders will have to take a courageous, difficult choice, but this is the only path they have towards peace. they can either move forward or watch cowards prevail in their own societies. this is the message we have been passing on – i have been passing on personally – to the two leaders together with my quartet colleagues and with my arab friends. this is the line on which we are all committed to work. i have asked both prime minister netanyahu and president abbas to receive the quartet envoys in the coming days – not weeks – to start working together on concrete steps that can immediately be taken on the ground to de-escalate on one side and to improve the living conditions of the people. we have to find this entry point because in respect of talks, the big horizon today, i do not see the conditions internally in the two societies to allow the leaderships to invest credibly in this at a time when the security situation as it is and while confidence still needs to be built. first and foremost we need to find this entry point, making sure that at the end of the process the two-state solution is preserved and not pre-judged. we have to help them start implementing issues on the ground that can deliver for the ordinary people on both sides who today are seeing their children dying, albeit in different numbers, so that they can start having a future in their lands.
the s&d group. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the conflict between israel and palestine is burning, it is burning on and on. and until a solution is found, the middle east will be like a crooked tree, undermined at its root by the israeli-palestinian conflict. the violence of recent weeks speaks to us of a lost palestinian generation, born after oslo, who have never known the hope of peace. the union's role is to revive this hope. and so there is no need for rhetoric: you need facts. we share your strategy, mrs mogherini. you're doing a very smart and valuable job. it is right, as you are doing, to focus on two objectives. first, de-escalation in the field. secondly, the resumption of political initiative. of course, the agreement reached in the last few hours on maintaining the status quo on the mosque esplanade in jerusalem is a positive step. we cannot lose jerusalem. i would also point out two cornerstones for the resumption of political initiative. first of all: europe, israel and palestine have a common enemy today, extremist violence. which, mind you, not only coincides with isis, but also with the hateful practices of the most extreme wings, palestinian and israeli. secondly, we need two states, an israeli state and a sovereign palestine, meeting along the 1967 borders with land swaps and jerusalem as the capital of both states. but if we want to save israel and palestine from war, we must first save them from themselves, or rather from their worst forces, from those who work as they worked in the mythical odyssey penelope, the wife of ulysses, who to avoid new marriages, while waiting for her husband, dismantled the canvas she built during the day. there are forces in israel and palestine that destroy what is being built with such difficulty, and when it seems that we are about to reach the result, the goal of peace, those forces re-emerge and prevent the achievement of the goal. israel and the european union concluded an association agreement in 2000, which is not just about material aspects, but in which both sides have committed themselves to respecting human rights and democracy. the european union must guarantee this commitment and remind all parties of their historic task: to turn the enemy into a loyalist, the fanatic into a moderate, the avenger into a friend. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i have no difficulty, mr president, in reading the part i have written, so there can be no misunderstanding. europe, israel and palestine have a common enemy today: and not just isis, but also the most extreme fringes, both palestinian and israeli. so israel is one thing, and isis is the enemy of israel, the enemy of palestine, and the enemy of all of us.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the third intifada or the most serious escalation: little changes in a reality of death and blood in the streets. a reality in which dialogue and the negotiation process disappear from the table, overwhelmed by the extremist rhetoric of hamas on the one hand and by the zionism of netanyahu on the other, ready to take extraordinary measures, also condemned by ban ki-moon, against the population of east jerusalem. perhaps it is the point of no return in an already difficult situation. those who preach a return to the status quo, like kerry, may not realize that they are confusing an unlikely solution with the real cause of the problem, because already 26 palestinians have died between january and september. you said it yourself earlier, high representative, "no more business as usual". i am convinced that you are not sparing yourself in the laborious work of silent diplomacy, but i am equally convinced that it is time to take a public stand with a loud and clear voice, even less equidistant, when necessary. we are israel's first trading partner, an occupying power with great responsibilities. we are also the largest donor to palestine: we can, indeed we must, make a difference. we are taking the initiative as the european union with a un-authorized and european-led peace and protection mission for civilians in the occupied territories. all those who believe in peace will give us credit for it. the five star movement offers you this; it will not be an easy road, but it may be the beginning of the right road.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too believe that much more decisive and in some respects spectacular action is needed by this european union which - i don't blame the high representative - is bringing home results that are hardly visible, hardly tangible. an example of all: underlying this stabbing intifada, there's incredible religious hatred on both sides: and what has been done to involve the religious leaders? history teaches us that coexistence in palestine between jews and muslims in the holy places has been possible for centuries, and that is where we must start. i have the impression that we are not following the right paths, that we are not allowing those who can impose different choices on these desperate people to intervene. you keep talking about the two-state solution, but are you really convinced or is it your hypocrisy that makes you believe that the two leaders really believe in the two-state solution? i think that we must find much more incisive and much more decisive ways. we are demonstrating once again that europe does not see reality, and reality is very dangerous and opens the way to extreme and dangerous solutions for everyone and therefore for us too.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks we have been witnessing with concern the outbreak of a new cycle of violence in israel and palestine, and some have already called it the new intifada. we hope not. we hope that we will not face a new bloody conflict in that already tormented land. the most worrying thing is the almost unprecedented nature of this new escalation of violence, a symptom of a deep rift that makes the path towards a peaceful settlement between the two ethnic groups that are fighting for the holy land even more difficult. the resolution of the arab-israeli conflict must be a priority for the union. the important and sustained efforts of high representative mogherini to identify points of mediation are beginning to have an effect. but we have not yet succeeded in developing an effective and autonomous policy in the peace process. the european union can only play a central role in achieving a global peace based on a vision of a region in which two democratic states, israel and palestine, live side by side in a climate of reconciliation and with secure and recognized borders.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we recognize the efforts made by the african union and igad in promoting the peace agreement in south sudan. an agreement, however, threatened by the mistrust of the government and rebels and the violence that continues in this state. millions of south sudanese have suffered for too long, and the war is likely to be accompanied by a severe famine. we must ensure safe access for humanitarian organisations operating in the area, thereby providing the necessary aid to the population. peace, mr president: this is the hope that accompanied the birth of south sudan, a country born from the rubble of an endless civil war. peace not only for the people of south sudan, who have suffered for decades, but for the entire east african region. there can be no peace without justice, however. the establishment of a hybrid court is therefore essential in this context, to shed light on the crimes committed and to dispel the spectre of impunity that is likely to accompany this conflict. finally, i would like to thank high representative federica mogherini for her work on the peace issue.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have spoken many times in this house about the difficult situation in sudan, a country with widespread and systematic violations of human rights, a government which continues to repress fundamental freedoms, including through the arbitrary detention of journalists and political party leaders. in the last few days, 80 civilians have been killed in one county in unity state, including 57 children. in south sudan, according to the complaints of the un agencies (fao, unicef and the world food programme), more than 30 000 people are at risk of starvation and tens of thousands more are at risk of famine. since the beginning of the conflict in south sudan almost two years ago, this is the first time that the so-called integrated model for the un's food emergency risk classification has recorded a level 5, that of catastrophe, the highest on a scale of one to five, for all segments of the population. if the situation is not to deteriorate further, europe and the international community must also mobilize, in cooperation with the african union, to promote national reconciliation and to support a process of political and institutional reconstruction in the country.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a very poor annual harvest, 30 000 people at risk of starvation, a third of the population on the verge of a humanitarian catastrophe, thousands of child soldiers, ethnic massacres, the systematic use of torture and sexual violence, the most despicable weapon to destabilise the enemy, as denis mukwege teaches us. in the all-out war between the dinka of kiir and the nuer of machar, there are no good and bad, but only a power struggle without limits and hundreds of thousands of innocent victims, in a country that has already had 2.5 million dead and hundreds of thousands of orphans and refugees in the previous civil war with sudan. the news of the new signing to continue the implementation of the peace agreements in juba is a glimmer of hope, but the specter of ethnic hatred and an even greater fragmentation of interests linked to the extraction of rich hydrocarbon deposits and the exploitation of water, the object of desire among the many of chinese appetites, are enough and advance to warn us. the youngest nation in the world does not need the arms and the big multinationals, but the experience and the support, including economic support, of old europe to support the peace agreement, to force the parties to cooperate and to learn to walk the path of democracy, and this includes the fight against impunity. we do not allow the chinese, the arabs, and even less ourselves to make it a colony to be exploited. that's a bad example we've been setting for centuries. if we cannot undo the mistakes of the past, we can at least prevent those of the future.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to speak on the report on the adriatic-ionian strategy, for which i was the rapporteur for the opinion of the envi committee. we recognise the importance of the strategy and its four pillars, particularly as they focus on environments rich in biodiversity and ecosystems that are both important and fragile and already subject to many human impacts. the final report, which has many interesting and positive points, does not contain some of the important recommendations that we thought we would make in the environment committee, such as the minimum target of 10% of the adriatic and ionian seas covered by marine protected areas by 2020, as indicated by international commitments and the marine strategy framework directive. we reiterate that the promotion of economic and social prosperity in the region must not be pursued at the expense of the ecological balance, biodiversity and natural resources. some of the points in the report seem to go against this approach and we are concerned about them. we are talking about gasification plants, major projects, motorways of the sea and the ten-t. we welcome the amendment on the concern about possible future drilling in the adriatic.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we shall be voting on two important reports tomorrow: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financing of the structural funds is a good one, but it is not enough to make the necessary adjustments. i would have expected a more courageous report, one that dealt with the very ratio of macro-conditionality. we have the opportunity to improve the text with an amendment proposed by the five star movement and the gue, which calls for a revision of the investment clause in order to allow both regional and national investments co-financed through the esi funds to be excluded from the calculation of the deficit. the five star movement, the gue and even the spanish popular party and the french socialists have also proposed this amendment in the regi committee, but it was rejected by the compromise committees. it's all in the record, it's all provable. the revision of the clause is not a battle of right or left, but of common sense, invoked by the regions and even emphasised by the epp in a resolution of october 2013. for reasons unknown to us, some colleagues, including italian ones, have withdrawn their signatures. the amendment is therefore in danger. i appeal to my colleagues, especially the italians, that they may resume their signatures until tomorrow. it is time to move from the words of speeches made in plenary, in committee, to the facts. we shall also be voting tomorrow on the jakovčić reaction, which has many positive aspects, but also contains criticisms. criticism of references and projects in the juncker plan and therefore projects ranging from the revamping of ilva to the regasifiers and the tav. there are references to pipelines, easily traceable in tap. these pipelines have a considerable environmental impact in addition to a visible economic and strategic advantage. we shall vote in favour of the report only if these references are withdrawn tomorrow.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his work on the strategy for the adriatic-ionian macro-region. i believe that the launch of this strategy represents a very important turning point for cohesion policy, which is anchored in the principles and rules established for previous macro-regional strategies, but inevitably projected into the future and above all into the contexts of the regions concerned. the macro-region has many innovative features in its own territory: the european union is not only a member of the european union, but also a member of the european union, and the countries that border it, and which look to europe sitting around a table, planning, planning, coordinating growth and development, while fully respecting the resources they possess, most of which come from the adriatic-ionian basin, which this strategy places at the centre of productive activities. the challenge now is to integrate the strategy with the structural funds of the 2014-2020 agenda. member states and regions need to align policies and related funds and incorporate the eusair strategy into eu programmes. in short, we need the fruitful multi-level interaction that has already been evident in the drafting of this strategy and has been really fruitful. i thank commissioner crețu and i naturally welcome the recent approval of the adrion programme, which contributes eur 118 million to the implementation of projects in the adriatic-ionian macro-region and, what is even more important, is a testimony that shows precisely that strategy does not mean, in this case, only theory.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i first of all consider very positive the announcement made by commissioner crețu here in the chamber this evening on the use of eu resources and cohesion policy in the refugee crisis. it was a request that had also come from parliament. i hope that more can be done, especially for those countries which are struggling to close the eu's cohesion policy programme and to use some of those resources to help immigrants and the solution that will be adopted in each country. the second question concerns macro-conditionality. i think mr blanco lópez has done everything he could to bring a good report. but let's be honest with each other, at least with those of us who have some knowledge of the subject: it is an old debate, already outdated by the facts, by the decisions we have taken only recently on greece and by the way the commission itself is adopting the flexibility clause on investment. we must work and push for cohesion policy to help europe to revive a policy of public and private investment for work and employment. finally, very important things have been said in this debate on simplification, and i think we must insist on this, because cohesion policy remains the most closely watched policy in europe. there is no european public policy that is as closely monitored as cohesion policy. we must make it simpler, more capable of building relationships with interlocutors, but also for that reason more monitored.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to make a few remarks, the first on the adriatic-ionian macro-regional strategy. i believe that this will be an opportunity to demonstrate and put into practice the principle of territorial cohesion which, in my view, is finding practical application in this field after being introduced in lisbon. the second point i want to make is about simplification. the simplification, however, must be directed, madam commissioner, towards giving priority to content and results over the exaggerated form. another point to be made is that the principle of proportionality cannot, however, make us forget that attention must be paid to quality expenditure which applies to all, even small projects. the third point is that simplification must first of all be a tool to support the managing authorities. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to remind you that it is the main instrument... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the macro-regions represent an important institutional innovation, a concrete instrument for reducing the distance between europe and its citizens. the ionian-adriatic macro-region is a real development opportunity: it is an area of great cultural and environmental value, an extraordinary tourist district, an east-west/north-south bridge, a bridge of peace and cooperation with great commercial potential. there is no sustainable development of the macro-region without an adequate transport infrastructure network, a bi-directional south-north/east-west network. that is why, together with 90 colleagues, i have tabled an amendment, which i invite you to support, for the completion of the adriatic-ionian motorway southwards, bypassing ravenna. i would like to conclude by recalling my question on drilling. in my view, they are in breach of specific european provisions and are incompatible with the development of the macro-region.
in writing. when we talk about the adriatic and ionian region, we are talking about an area that concerns eight countries and involves over 70 million inhabitants. these two facts are perhaps enough to make us understand the need and importance of standing together to respond to the current challenges which have a considerable impact on the economic and social development of this macro-region. sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources, the protection of the marine ecosystem, and improved transport and energy connectivity cannot be translated into growth drivers without ambitious planning. the european strategy can only provide a significant development opportunity if the political will to establish cooperation links is matched by an operational commitment on the part of both governments and regional and local authorities. i hope that the new transnational cooperation programme adrion will provide a first important impetus in this direction. it is time for concrete action. working together among all the countries in the area is also the best strategy for boosting the economy of the fisheries sector and supporting those who work in the fisheries sector. i would like to point out that aquaculture and mariculture represent a business potential that is just waiting to be exploited in an effective and sustainable way.
member of the commission.– madam president, democracy as a founding value of the union means that the eu institutions must exercise their powers according to the highest standards of representativeness and accountability. the commission and the european parliament share the same objectives of strengthening the democratic legitimacy of the european union. i congratulate parliament on the proposal under discussion today for amending the rules for electing its members. the report adopted in the committee on constitutional affairs, on the basis of the proposal by ms hübner and mr leinen, has the potential to become a milestone in the democratic evolution of the european project, which – as we all have to recognise – has been a remarkable, though also a long and painful, process. ahead of the most recent european elections, the commission – mindful of the strengths of the european parliament and of its role in the appointment of the president of the commission under the lisbon treaty, and echoing long—standing calls from parliament – had prompted european political parties to nominate lead candidates for the function of president of the commission. the european political families did so for the first time, and jean-claude juncker, a candidate able to command a majority in the newly formed european parliament, was nominated by the european council and elected by parliament as president of the commission. this key novelty of the 2014 elections connected the election of the commission president more directly to the voters’ choice. consolidating these new elements for future elections will reinforce the democratic legitimacy of the european decision—making process and will be a significant step forward, fostering the emergence of a genuinely european political sphere. the commission supports the proposed reform which will further strengthen our political accountability, as european parties will have to nominate their lead candidates at the latest 12 weeks ahead of the elections. the reforms can also help bridge the divide between political processes at national and at eu level. showcasing the affiliation between national and european political parties, on ballot papers and in political broadcasts during the electoral campaign, will make the links between the main players more visible to voters and will improve their trust in the process. here, i think, we have all been victims of the lack of discussion and debate about european issues, which is so very important. national political parties and authorities have also a decisive role to play in helping to increase transparency and to make citizens more aware of the european repercussions of votes cast for national parties. having further common principles in the organisation of the european parliament elections, such as a minimum threshold in all member states for the allocation of seats, will also contribute to strengthening the european dimension of these elections. in substance, the establishment of such a minimum threshold will make the functioning of the european parliament more efficient by decreasing the risk of fragmentation and by facilitating stable majorities. we have been talking about a crisis of representative democracy, and of disillusionment with politics. promoting participation is essential for the progress of the european project. that is why i warmly welcome the proposals for extending the right to vote to eu citizens living in third countries; for putting in place more flexible and inclusive ways of casting votes; and for fostering women’s political participation in union decision making and in european elections. using electoral lists that ensure gender balance, as proposed in the report, is another important step in the right direction. by the way, i was here, though in another capacity, when we proposed such gender quotas many times in the past. on the basis of experience in the country i know best, i would also advocate action at national level because, as i have said, this aspect is catastrophic in many countries, both at local level and in national parliaments. at least here we have this principle, and that is very important. fair and objective media coverage during european election campaigns is, of course, another key element and i wish to stress it, since it is an essential condition for free and fair elections. i take note of the proposal to establish a european electoral authority where information about elections to the european parliament would be centralised. before any further commitment, this would need to be carefully examined and, in particular, we need to examine the timeliness and feasibility of such a proposal, including in relation to the responsibilities of such an authority, possible arrangements for establishing it, and the institutional, legal, budgetary and staffing requirements for its functioning. the commission, as i said, fully supports parliament’s efforts to adopt these timely and ambitious proposals. congratulations.
i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the complex work they have done, and also the commissioner for her support for our initiative. this is a sensitive issue, because it is one of the two cases in which parliament has legislative initiative. we propose changes, however limited, to the legislation. i would remind you that since 1976 the council has refused to amend the text of the electoral law and thus to make elections more european, as mr schöpflin has already mentioned. the proposals are therefore contained, but they are aimed at moving towards a more uniform electoral legislation. i 'll remember a few . the commission's proposal is to make the european political parties visible and thus to give a european dimension to the elections, to stabilise the nomination of the candidate for the european commission and to allow voters to know him through an appropriate number of weeks during which the names will be known. the gender balance, which i believe is essential; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i hope that we will be able to draw up an electoral law in this parliament for the first time.
i'm asking for a blue card. i 'll be lightning fast . i would remind you that under the current treaties - i do not know whether you have read them - we represent the whole union and not our individual member states. i wanted to know if you were aware of it.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let us be frank with ourselves: this reform of the trial court is a scandal. at best, we are faced with the council's obvious inability, supported by the people's party, the socialists and the greens, to overcome the nationalist and anti-community logic which still holds the reform to the principle of 'one state, one court', without any study of the impact on the real need to double the number of judges. in the worst case, we are faced with unconfessed interests behind a mere division of seats. parliament will have to explain to its citizens from tomorrow why europe can impose on them significant economic sacrifices, which in italy for example have also led to the halving of the number of courts, while then europe itself decides to double the number of judges in its court. we believe in justice and that is why we are opposed to this reform which the council and parliament are carrying out with unusual haste. i am sorry for my green and socialist colleagues, but even the fig leaf of gender equality cannot justify this scandalous reform.
the agenda includes the report by mr giovanni la via, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 as regards the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory (com (((2015) 0177 - c8-0107/2015 - 2015/0093 ((cod)) (a8-0305/2015).
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner andriukaitis, the subject of gmos is always the subject of heated public debate, particularly on the possible consequences for human health. to date, there is insufficient evidence to show that the consumption of gm foods can have any consequences for human health and the environment. efsa is expressing its position, but as you know very well in europe we apply the precautionary principle and so of course we have a very careful position on the subject. before i go into the substance of the proposal, however, let me thank my colleagues who have worked with me for what they have done so far. on 22 april, the european commission presented its proposal to amend the regulation on genetically modified food and feed, which provides for the possibility for member states to adopt national decisions aimed at restricting or prohibiting the use of gmos in food or feed, once such use has been authorised at union level, the so-called 'opt-out'. the envi commission has spoken out against the proposal, albeit with different reasons for its rejection. the majority was, however, large, with 47 votes in favour. during these months serious concerns were expressed regarding the lack of an impact assessment, the compatibility of the measures taken by the member states with the internal market and the feasibility of the proposal. the proposal was not preceded by an assessment of all the possible consequences and alternative options available. we therefore have no means of judging with certainty the consequences that the proposal may have for the functioning of the internal market in food and feed and for the competitiveness of the agricultural sector in the union. i believe that the proposal could seriously damage livestock production and also negatively affect agriculture in the european union, since the european union is still heavily dependent on the supply of proteins from genetically modified sources, and whereas the proposal is likely to have an indirect negative effect on imports. i also have serious doubts, which i have already expressed on several occasions in discussions with the commission, about the feasibility of the proposal, given the absence of border controls in the european union. the reintroduction of such internal controls, with barriers between member states, would be tantamount to erasing the economic achievements of the european customs union and the single market. and we cannot think of having a leopard-spotted internal market, after all the efforts that have enabled us over the years to eliminate internal barriers, the internal borders of the eu. it is also not clear how member states benefiting from the opt-out can ensure the practical enforcement of the measures on their territory. so we are here today in the plenary to take a decision in this parliament and the rapporteur's request to his colleagues is to reject the proposal. we shall also be voting on a number of amendments to the legislative resolution: the commission has already made a number of proposals, some calling for a new proposal from the commission and others calling for a moratorium until a new proposal is made. as rapporteur, i would also like to ask you to vote against these amendments, because i believe that the legislation in force is good legislation, but the member states must have the courage to apply it. the member states must of course take their responsibility. we are therefore sending a strong signal to the commission with today's vote and i hope that during the debate our colleagues will be able to give a full account of the reasons for our opposition.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too join in the appeals made by mr boylan and mr staes. commissioner andriukaitis, president juncker last year committed himself to making the process of authorising gmos more democratic. this proposal is not standing, the impact assessment is missing. there has therefore been a lack of political will to make a serious effort to resolve this situation. parliament is expressing itself in its text. we have tried to propose amendments to suggest ways of resolving this situation, to encourage debate. we, as the five star movement, believe that risk management could eventually be returned to the member states, so that they can be free to manage the health risk that may result from the release of these genetically modified organisms into the environment. or we could accept the greens' proposal to amend the comitology rules through regulation (eu) no 182/2011. so there are possibilities and solutions that can be put forward, which we strongly urge the commission to listen to in order to finally arrive at a proposal that is as democratic as possible and which allows member states and those who want to obtain and market gmos to have gmos on their market, and those who do not want them to finally have legal certainty.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is taking everything away from us with its foolish decisions, including the right to choose what we eat and what we put on our plates. europe listens to the big multinationals who dictate the rules of the food market and who have their own interests at heart, not our health, those multinationals who do not want mandatory origin labelling, which is all the more fundamental now that red meat and processed meat are under indictment. initiatives like this are welcome, but they are not enough, since europe, with ttip and trade agreements, is opening the door wide to the invasion of counterfeit and low-quality products. europe must choose, and you must choose, ladies and gentlemen, whether to be on the side of the consumer, and therefore on the side of quality agri-foodstuffs, or on the side of the big economic interests. i chose: i say no to gmos. europe must say 'no' to gmos in a clear way and not allow member states to produce and sell genetically modified products. that is what the european citizens want, commissioner, and i will always stand by the citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, today we are about to reject the proposal to leave it to the member states to decide whether or not to use gmos, a proposal which has not convinced a large majority of this parliament. i shall not therefore repeat the many reasons which lead my political group to reject this proposal, mainly because of the risk of undermining the single european market and bringing animal husbandry to its knees in many countries. but this rejection must be an opportunity to open a wider debate and go beyond a simple comparison between pro and against gmos. going further means first of all explaining to our citizens what biotechnology is, especially the new generation of biotechnology, means acknowledging that at present europe's great need for plant proteins is largely met by imports of genetically modified soybeans, but above all it means not letting europe miss the innovation train. only with greater research will we be able to discover how the next generation of biotechnologies can overcome the ethical limits of current biotechnologies, which are of particular concern to european consumers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the very complex and not new question of gmos, i believe that a less ideological, more balanced approach is needed, and also one which is more transparent and involves more science and citizens. it is essential to encourage free and responsible research to understand the actual risks and benefits. the proposal for a regulation under discussion is to be rejected: the commission is not intervening on the real issue, which is the contested procedure by which the european union authorises gmos, but gives member states the right to prohibit or not to prohibit their use on their territory, in the absence of a genuine, serious and comprehensive impact assessment, with the consequent risk of creating more problems than solutions. the proposal is also impractical, because it would lead to the reintroduction of border controls, to the cancellation of the achievements of the single market. it is also important to consider the negative impact this proposal would have on the union's livestock sector. if the ambition is to make rules that apply to all europeans, then a new and very different proposal is needed.
member of the commission.– mr president, of course i have followed very closely this controversial debate and i have taken due note of all the comments and views that the honourable members, have expressed. i would like to reply to some of these. regarding the claims that the commission proposal is not in line with the european union single market rules, i will simply respond that this is incorrect. according to the european union treaties, member states may derogate from the freedom-of-movement rule on the basis of overriding reasons related to the public interest. that is enshrined in the treaties. this is not against the single market: it is about the right of member states to see such overriding reasons. we must follow the rule of law; we must follow the treaties; we cannot act without a legal basis – and the proposal fully respects that principle. i am in favour of supporting the single european market. i am in favour of supporting science-based assessment, because that is the only way. i believe in science – independent science. as regards the accusation that an impact assessment was not carried out, i would say this: it is meaningless for the commission to carry out an ex-ante impact assessment on a proposal which merely gives the member states a legal basis on which to act. in relation to cultivation proposals, the same logic applies. the proposal does not have an impact in itself: it will be up to member states to evaluate the possible impact of their own decisions – about which you have raised many, many questions. it is in the hands of member states to use the opt-out mechanism if they are ready to do so. they must follow the impact assessment procedure because this is a very serious and complex matter. i fear from the unwilling tone of the discussions that there is a real possibility of parliament rejecting the proposal. allow me to repeat my view: it would be preferable to continue to discuss this frankly and openly under the ordinary legislative procedure rather than to seek to close down the dialogue. i would repeat once again jean-claude juncker’s promise: the commission should be in a position to give the majority view of democratically—elected governments at least the same weight as scientific advice. it is about the member state governments’ view, not about the scope for treaty changes to change the voting mechanism, because that is enshrined in the treaties. secondly, i would not want the commission to be able to take a decision when the majority of member states had not encouraged it to do so. that is our proposal: please, if member states have reasonable opinions, that is one thing, but you cannot destroy the single market, you cannot destroy our common european agricultural policy, and you cannot act against the european food safety authority (efsa) assessment because we need a centralised efsa opinion. on the subject of efsa, this risk assessment of gm food and feed is carried out by efsa in accordance with the highest and the most up-to-date scientific standards. we have mentioned independence and scientific evidence, and i am ready to discuss all these arguments about efsa’s transparency. we must create trust in efsa because otherwise we will have no scientifically based instruments. we must do our job in the best way to preserve trust in efsa. commission implementing regulation no 503/2013 on applications for authorisation of genetically modified food and feed reinforces the authorisation process by clarifying the studies to be conducted by applicants and defining the protocols to be followed. it was adopted by a qualified majority of member states. furthermore, efsa carries out risk assessment in close cooperation with member states: with all 28 member states, with all the scientists involved. of course, we must debate and see how to improve efsa’s capacity but we need science. i call on you once again, honourable members, to reflect on the consequences of this discussion before proceeding to the vote. we need to reinforce the legitimacy of european union decisions on gmos. i would like to say that i have heard some excellent proposals: to continue our debates on biotechnologies, on science, on examining ways of supporting european union researchers, including biotechnologists, more effectively. i cannot imagine the european union without scientific progress – that would be against logic. i am a cardiac surgeon and i know what a scientific approach to all the issues means. i am ready to continue those debates. maybe next year it would be good to organise debates together with the european parliament, inviting representatives of non-governmental organisations and prominent scientists and to challenge some of our understanding of the issues. lastly, i would like to confirm that the commission believes this proposal is the right way of addressing the challenges in relation to the decision-making process on gmos at european union level. the commission will not withdraw its proposal.
as far as the 'catch-the-eye' is concerned, of course when there are 20 or more requests i always try to take account of the balance of groups, gender and nationality. so i cannot, despite myself, give the floor to all those who ask for it. ms. kelly, you've often received the floor from me when you've asked to participate in the "catch-the-eye", so there's no intention on my part to discriminate against you. it's just a matter of balancing within the catch-the-eye.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank all my colleagues for their contribution to this debate and commissioner andriukaitis for defending the commission's position. you said today: "there is a good chance that this parliament will reject the commission's proposal today". after listening to this debate i think he is deeply convinced that, for various reasons, there is one point in common with almost all the political groups, which is the rejection of the commission's proposal. i was saying, for different reasons: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, because on the one hand there are arguments about the inconsistency between a better regulation proposal put forward by the commission and the lack of an impact assessment, which you explain to us that it would probably not be necessary, because it would be the member states who would have to opt out. but it is the commission which has to ask how a leopard-spotted market can work, with countries choosing one position and countries choosing another. we have obviously seen, as you have indicated, the possibility of a derogation from the single market. of course, but it seems to me that this derogation from the single market is not wanted in this house today. we want something else and we have also heard some clearly positive proposals in this house, which you have accepted but which i should like to stress. we need a great debate, a european debate on new technologies, because europe must be able to reconcile its tradition of large-scale agri-food production with the urgent, non-delayed need to have quality production, quality that is adequate to satisfy the food needs of the citizens of europe and of the world. i would therefore ask you to promote this debate on new technologies, because only through knowledge can we dispel some of the shadows that exist in relation to new technologies and can we then move in the direction that the governments and the citizens of europe want.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 28 october, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by james nicholson, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on novel foods (com (((2013) 0894 - c7-0487/2013 - 2013/0435 ((cod)) (a8-0046/2014).
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the final text the qualifying elements which had been introduced by the committee on the environment have unfortunately disappeared, and these were the elements for which we, as the five star movement, had given our support to the opening of negotiations with the council. we have therefore tabled these amendments again, as has been said, and so clearly our vote will be based on the final outcome of the tabled amendments. we have a very strong doubt, a very strong concern about the application of the precautionary principle, which has already been mentioned by my colleagues. in this case, we see that the precautionary principle has been ignored in order to favour, unfortunately, the commercial interests of the large food and food companies. it is an example of which we are unfortunately aware and which demonstrates the interpretation given to this precautionary principle, especially with regard to nanomaterials, for which efta gives us a position. when we have to follow efta, the commission gives us a briefing on the gmo case. in this case we have not followed what is required of us by efta and so unfortunately the uncertainty remains.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of the committee on the environment, i led the parliament's delegation to the trilogue. it has been a long and complex process, which has seen different positions within the parliament's delegation. and it is to the members of this house that i wish to turn today, because the agreement we reached in the trilogue was probably the best possible agreement, and when you negotiate you cannot always be sure that you will bring into the final text what your own demands are, those of your political party, and your own will. in the negotiations something has to be given up, and we did so in total openness, with internal discussion, and at every stage the parliamentary group, the various rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs confronted each other until we reached the adoption of a text which is what is being put to the vote today. i understand that some people want to return to their positions. everyone is free to do so, the legislative process allows it. but we must be aware of one thing: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. today we are close to an agreement and i invite all colleagues, all those who have been in the trilogues, but also all those who have indirectly participated in the process, to vote on this agreement as it has come. it may not be the best, but it was the best that could be had.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the current novel food regulation is cumbersome and makes the approval and marketing of novel food products too slow: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. the agri-food sector, on the other hand, is a constantly evolving sector, which needs an up-to-date regulatory framework to keep pace with technological developments over the last 20 years, for example with regard to nanotechnology. the text we are about to vote on today is an important step forward in this direction, which should encourage innovation in the food industry through a genuine data protection system and at the same time lead to a reduction in the administrative burden and to simplification of procedures. however, in simplifying the current authorisation procedures for novel foods, a high level of protection of human health and consumer interests should also be ensured through a systematic centralised risk assessment by efta and a strict application of the precautionary principle. therefore, additional specific labelling requirements are needed to protect consumers.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank my colleagues on the environment committee for the amendments to the text which are intended to improve the situation, given that we are deciding whether tens and tens of thousands of european citizens will live or die in the coming years. a formality, you know. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the lack of will to tackle the problem of air quality and therefore climate change decisively will also weaken a possible ambitious agreement at the next climate conference in paris. the european union must decide whether it wants to continue to favour the business of a few, or whether it wants to protect the health of hundreds of millions of citizens. the european union must decide whether it wants to have community standards that are worse than those of china or not. this is not a fight between businessmen and environmentalists, between industrialists and farmers. this is a civilization issue that concerns the state of the planet we leave to our children.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, better air quality must be a priority objective for the european institutions and the member states. today we have the opportunity to do our part by voting for a text that can significantly reduce air pollution, improve air quality and save lives. and i spoke of saving lives, because pollution in europe is causing hundreds of thousands of deaths, negatively affecting the gdp of the member states, with very high health-related costs. the european parliament has the opportunity to show its willingness to set ambitious environmental targets and its concern for the health of its citizens by voting today in the wake of the volkswagen scandal. but parliament alone cannot change things. each sector must play its part, including agriculture, but it must not be disproportionately affected. that is why i believe that enteric methane alone, that is to say, methane from farming through the digestive processes of ruminants, should be excluded from the scope of the directive by a joint effort on the part of everyone, both on the public health and economic levels. cleaner air can bring greater benefits.
i would inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that in view of the length of the votes, which as you know will be very long today, the conference of presidents has decided that the explanations of vote at the end of the votes will not be taken into account today. the explanations of vote on the items voted on today can be given tomorrow after the votes. i would also remind you that explanations of vote may also be submitted in writing.
mr leinen, since there was a problem of interpretation, i would ask you to rephrase your request to the house. i ask all the services of parliament to concentrate as much as possible, because these are very long and very complicated votes.
the proposal to postpone the vote on the reform of the eu electoral law is accepted.
the amendments proposed by the rapporteur are accepted and will be incorporated into the text.
commission's statements transitional national measures the commission takes note of the decision of the european parliament and the council to allow member states to keep existing derogations related to red coral harvesting without any time limit, and to provide for new derogations to be granted during a transitional period again without clear cut-off date. the commission considers that, by their nature, derogations and/or transitional measures can only be temporary and that the unlimited exceptional regimes agreed between the co-legislators may put the union in a position where it is not able to ensure that its international obligations towards the gfcm are fully respected. in the event that the above mentioned risks should materialize, the commission will submit proposals for appropriate measures in accordance with the relevant provisions of the treaty. in any event, the commission emphasises that any decision in this case will not prejudice the commission position in relation to other rules on derogations and/or transitional regimes. final date for use of rovs (remotely operated underwater vehicles) with regards to the final date of 31/12/2015, agreed by the european parliament and the council for authorised use of rovs for observation and prospection of red coral, the commission takes note of the decision of the co-legislators to interpret the words "until 2015" in paragraph 3a) of recommendation gfcm/35/2011/2, as "until 31 december 2015", thus deviating substantially from the commission's proposal to consider only the time period before 2015, until 31 december 2014. having already stressed that, by their nature, derogations can only be temporary, the commission recalls that also the fao legal service had expressed the view that only the time limit before 2015 should be considered. in the light of this, the commission will assess if appropriate initiatives need to be taken in order to clarify the union's position on the issue of rovs within the gfcm.
the rapporteur. mr president, after the decision of the plenary to reject the commission's proposal, we will have to see whether the commission intends to withdraw the proposal or to maintain it, and then of course we will have to make our determinations.
member of the commission.– mr president, the commission regrets the decision of the european parliament to reject the commission’s proposal, which is aimed at giving more freedom to member states to decide on the use of eu—authorised gm food and feed. the commission maintains its original proposal which, if adopted, would enable member states to address at national level considerations which are not covered by the eu decision-making process. the commission believes that the proposal is the right way of addressing the challenges in relation to the decision-making process on gmos at eu level. the commission will continue the discussions with the council.
the rapporteur. mr president, in view of the commission's intention not to withdraw the proposal, given the debate which took place this morning in the house with a broad convergence of all the political groups towards rejecting the proposal, and also given the large majority which was in the committee on the environment on the subject, i ask the house to express itself today with the legislative resolution and then to proceed and continue with the votes on the legislative resolution.
that concludes the voting.
in writing. ‒ given that little has been done to date to reduce the costs of the european institutions, and that our local administrators are struggling to provide citizens with good services given the very limited resources at their disposal, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the provisions relating to small and mediumsized enterprises and agriculture only.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the council position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, as many policy priorities, such as effectively managing the migration and refugee crisis, promoting competitiveness through job creation and developing businesses and entrepreneurship in the union, are all supported with adequate financial allocation. in particular, in the 2016 budget, parliament focused its attention on migration and refugees, considering them as the intersection of internal and external solidarity, mobilising the appropriate funding instruments, within an integrated approach, in order to address the root causes of the problems facing the union. the budget also provides for many instruments to stimulate competitiveness, growth and quality employment in the single market, thus helping to tackle effectively the root causes of the crises facing the union today, and that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ we voted today on the draft budget for 2016. of all the amendments proposed, i note that we have decided to allocate 473 million for aid to unemployed young people looking for work and 500 million for aid to farmers affected by the embargo on russia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft because i fully agree with the need for parliament and the council to address the question of the need for a roadmap for the creation of a single seat, as requested by a large majority of parliament in various resolutions, in order to achieve long-term savings in the union budget. in addition, because of the abolition of milk quotas, i believe that preparatory measures are necessary to avoid market imbalances. the sugar sector also deserves equal attention in view of the expiry date of september 2017. finally, i am against union funding for bullfighting because animals are life and bullfighting is death, and europe should be more conscious of those who, for example, have lost their jobs and not of bullfighting.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the draft general budget of the eu for the financial year 2016, and i fully agree with the need to resolve the issue of the creation of a single seat of the european parliament as soon as possible, in order to save money that could help finance policies for the benefit of european citizens. i am also pleased that the draft budget places particular emphasis on the need to give new impetus to employment, growth, investment and the revival of competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ this is the resolution on the approval of the eu budget for the year 2016. the commission, in its june proposal, proposed a global allocation of eur 153.8 billion in commitments and eur 143.5 billion in payments; the council, in its july reading, applied, as usual, some reductions, mainly in payments, to eur 142.1 billion. the european parliament, through the vote at the end of september in the committee on budgets, rejected the council's cuts in their entirety and also proposed significant increases over the initial proposal of the european commission. the final result was an increase to 157.5 billion in commitments and 146.5 billion in payments, with the largest increases concentrated in heading iii (security and citizenship), with a particular focus on emergency immigration-related funds. although the priorities supported by the committee on budgets are largely acceptable, i am voting against because i am critical of the general approach, since, for example, as regards administrative expenditure, there is no sign of a reduction in it and it is continuing to increase every year, which is not sustainable at a time when the eu itself is asking for restrictions from the member states.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of the draft budget was our challenge to the council's rigidity. our aim is to safeguard resources for growth and employment. compared to the commission's 2016 draft budget, we have introduced increases of 3.6 billion in commitments, and 2.9 billion in payments. among other things, we have focused on economic, social and territorial cohesion, increasing the allocation for youth employment by €473 million and providing extra resources to deal with the flow of immigrants and the challenge of welcoming them. the challenges we face are solved by devising and proposing bold and innovative solutions, which, however, must not be wasted, and that is why we as a parliament will do everything to preserve adequate levels of resources and to enable europe to play its full role as a global actor.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016. the european union's 2016 budget proposal focuses on growth, employment and migration. the project provides for payment appropriations to support the recovery of the european economy. the funds will be used to finance investments to support and promote innovation, create new jobs and foster convergence between member states and regions.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fernandes deprez report on the draft general budget of the eu for 2016, as it includes many of the amendments proposed by our s&d group and almost all of our financial requests. the project corresponds to the budget estimates approved in spring 2015. unfortunately, because of the recent refugee crisis, the european commission had to propose two letters of amendment to establish a new line of as much as two billion which will have to be taken out of some of the programmes already planned. i welcome the fact that the commission has already proposed a plan of action for the creation of a single seat for parliament, which would ensure a huge cost-optimisation for the taxpayers and the european budget. the budget for the other institutions, which is essentially the same as the draft draft drafted by the european commission, also seems to me fair and proportionate to the new institutional needs.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of parliament's proposal on the general budget of the european union for 2016, which will be used as a basis for reaching an agreement with the council. our proposal for the allocation of the union's financial resources reflects the need to address the priorities for action that have recently emerged. firstly, the migration and refugee crisis, for which we propose the allocation of adequate funds in line with the commission's proposal and against the cuts proposed by the council, totalling some one billion euros. we also aim to fight youth unemployment, with €473 million for new job-search support programmes for unemployed young people, and to promote growth by increasing funding for horizon 2020, cosme and erasmus+, but also by providing compensation for farmers affected by the russian embargo on european food imports (around €500 million). the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi) and the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi). it is therefore a budget that looks to the future and is based on the idea of inclusive and sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of parliament's budget proposal, which will be used as a basis for reaching an agreement with the council. the european commission has understood the dramatic nature of the migrant emergency - which is no longer an emergency but a structural issue - by allocating adequate funds while we in parliament have worked to compensate for the more short-sighted cuts proposed by the council. we have again this year set our sights on saving growth and jobs by increasing funding for horizon 2020, cosme and erasmus+. we want a budget that focuses on research and innovation, that focuses on digital and telematic infrastructure, that looks to the future and is not based on a development idea that is slightly out of date. we've made a lot of progress on the sharing economy. a pilot project of mine has been selected for funding. i can tell you more in the coming months, but i hope that it will help, in a small way, to support those who invest in the most innovative and sustainable economies. parliament will also redistribute some items of expenditure, saving some eur 12 million. a serious commitment, not a small book of receipts and populism.
in writing. ‒ given the enormous costs of the union's institutions, and the very few resources allocated to services for citizens, i expressed my negative opinion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i broadly share the budgetary priorities it sets for 2016. in particular, i believe that the increase in resources devoted to tackling the migration crisis is an important signal.
in writing. ‒ final vote clearly negative on the own-initiative report accompanying the 2016 budget of the european institutions. my motives are primarily political, but i also have objections to the merits. much more could and should be done to reduce the costs of the eu institutions. we owe it, first of all, to our local administrators who have important responsibilities but very few resources to use to provide efficient services to citizens.
in writing. ‒ the priorities put to the vote today are largely shared, but i am critical of the general approach to the imbalance between commitments and payments (which is difficult to resolve by increasing the gap between the two items every year). i supported the amendments concerning a single seat for the european parliament, the funding of a pilot project for alternative methods to animal testing and the one aimed at preventing bullfighting farmers from receiving european funding. as for administrative expenditure, there is no sign of any reduction and it is increasing every year, which is not sustainable at a time when the eu itself is asking for restrictions from the member states. i voted against it, along with the m5s europe delegation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i agree with the increase in commitment and payment appropriations compared to the previous year, which should provide the european union with the necessary instruments to uphold and promote its values and interests and to contribute to the protection of its citizens in its relations with the rest of the world. i would particularly stress the importance of the considerable increase in payments, which will help to make up for the backlog accumulated in recent years. i would also point out that the number of refugees and internally displaced persons in the world has reached an unprecedented level of 60 million and that, consequently, the need for humanitarian aid has increased. this must be complemented by new funding for education in refugee camps and in emergency and crisis situations, as this can provide key skills to save lives, help children build their futures and protect them from radicalisation. finally, i would like to point out that a high level of environmental and health protection in the union is an indispensable condition for economic prosperity and that food and feed safety and the mechanisms that contribute to protection against natural and man-made disasters are of fundamental importance to all european citizens and, consequently, to the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the budget is a meeting place every year for new needs and policy projects, but a balance needs to be struck between continuing to support all existing funding programmes and investing in new instruments, with clear and transparent political priorities and objectives. i think that two of the main priorities are certainly employment, especially youth employment, and the need to give smes adequate support in terms of access to markets and finance.
in writing. my final vote on the 2016 eu budget was against. i would like to point out, however, that i voted in favour of a number of important amendments, which called for: to make unemployment and poverty reduction the eu's priorities; the substantial reduction in the general allowance for members; an increase in funding for the school fruit scheme; 'single seat' for a single seat of the european parliament; the increase of funds to be devoted to the fight against climate change; the financing of a pilot project for alternative methods to animal testing. i also voted in favour of the amendment calling for the cap appropriations not to be used to finance lethal bullfighting, listening to the voices of thousands of citizens who, like me, consider this practice unacceptable and a clear violation of the european convention on the protection of animals kept for farming purposes (council directive 98/58/ec).
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the 2016 budget of the european union. i would like to stress in particular the important allocation, thanks to parliament's requests and amendments, to programmes for growth and social cohesion. it is also very significant that we have once again solemnly endorsed the demand for a single seat for the european parliament, in order to put an end to the waste of resources and to streamline the political and parliamentary work of us representatives of the european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, which represents europe's priorities and needs. the european union budget is spent in those areas where resources are needed to achieve results for europe. the budget aims to support employment and growth, help the less developed regions of the european union, improve the competitiveness of european enterprises and finance research and innovation programmes to promote youth employment.
in writing. ‒ with the adoption of the resolution on the eu's general budget, parliament sets out the political priorities to be implemented through the implementation of the european commission's programmes. in the fields of culture and education, the union's clear support for erasmus+, which is certainly the programme best known to our citizens, is confirmed. the hope - and the signs are positive - is that this year there will be no lack of payments that translates into financial difficulties for the exchange students and their families. in the fields of culture and citizenship, the council has reduced the amounts compared with the commission's proposals for both creative europe and a citizens' europe. the commission has also decided to increase the amount of the financial contribution for the pilot projects and preparatory actions. even in the face of emergencies we know well, starting with the refugee crisis, it should not be underestimated how culture builds citizenship and social inclusion. while euroscepticism and mistrust are spreading in europe, and populism is growing on the extreme ends of the political spectrum, programmes that bring citizens and institutions closer together are being cut back. these practical problems, as well as the accumulation of unpaid invoices by the commission for lack of funds, are also the factors that are driving the european project apart.
in writing. ‒ while welcoming the breakdown of funds between the different budget lines presented, i would like to reiterate here the position of the envi committee, of which i am a member, with particular reference to the call for additional funds and funding for environmental research and innovation projects in order to achieve the objectives of horizon 2020 for a resource-efficient and climate-resilient economy and society. for these reasons, i am in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft general budget of the european union for 2016. the commission published it on 24 june 2015. the draft budget sets the overall level of appropriations for 2016 at eur 157.427,5 million in commitments and eur 146.459,5 million in payments. i believe that the budget has been drawn up in accordance with correct and comprehensive criteria and that it effectively meets the needs of the european union and its citizens. in any event, i think that in future the commission must take account of the economic recovery efforts which the member states are making at national level to revive their economies. the public finances of the member states must not be overburdened with unnecessary obligations and constraints. the right balance must be struck between rigour and development in order to achieve an effective allocation of available resources. we must safeguard the initiatives for youth employment, business development and entrepreneurship in the union and not further reduce the commitments proposed under this heading.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 because i believe that the report is in line with the new challenges posed by the juncker plan in the first place. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's financial instruments, in particular the european regional development fund, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's financial instruments. this is the position i have taken as rapporteur for the transport and tourism budget, and the position adopted by the european parliament, hoping that in the trilogues what we are asking for will not be distorted.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i believe that much more could and should be done to reduce the costs of the eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the amendment to prevent bullfighting farmers from also receiving european funding for spanish agriculture. it's about time! it is a victory for civilization to which i am glad to have contributed with my vote. it is also a step towards a less cruel management of animal husbandry, although the overall goal is unfortunately still far off. in general, however, our assessment of the report accompanying the eu budget is negative, since it does not resolve the imbalance between commitments and payments and does not seek to close some totally unnecessary lines of expenditure: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the this is a shame, given that the eu is forcing member states to cut back and to adopt austerity policies.
in writing. although some of the committee on budgets' priorities are shared, i did not support the resolution for two main reasons: firstly, commitments remain too far removed from the actual budgetary resources that will be made available, creating an ever-widening gap between commitments and payments and thus reducing the possibility of keeping faith in the years after what is promised; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our proposals drew attention to the need not to increase any budgetary item, especially those relating to the salaries and allowances of members of the european parliament and those relating to the financing of political parties and foundations. we have also proposed that all the unnecessary expenditure of certain bodies, such as the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions, be reviewed, but our line has been rejected both in committee and in plenary. i therefore regret that at a time of severe economic crisis, when the european union itself is calling for restrictions on the member states, i firmly believe that it is necessary to use the budgetary resources already available in a prudent and prudent manner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of parliament's budget proposal, which will be used as a basis for reaching an agreement with the council. the european commission has understood the dramatic nature of the migrant emergency - which is no longer an emergency but a structural issue - by allocating adequate funds while we in parliament have worked to compensate for the more short-sighted cuts proposed by the council. we have again this year focused on saving growth and jobs (we have increased funding for horizon 2020, cosme and erasmus+). the budget must focus on research, innovation, digital and telematic infrastructure and the new economy. finally, parliament will redistribute €12 million to other items of expenditure through internal cuts.
in writing. ‒ the commission's budget proposal proposed a global allocation of eur 153.8 billion in commitments and eur 143.5 billion in payments; the council, as usual, made some cuts, mainly in payments, which amounted to eur 142.1 billion. the european parliament, in its vote at the end of september in the committee on budgets, rejected the council's cuts in their entirety and proposed significant increases over the commission's initial proposal. the final result was an increase to 157.5 billion in commitments and 146.5 billion in payments, with the largest increases concentrated in heading iii, with a particular focus on emergency immigration funds. the priorities supported by the committee on budgets are largely acceptable, but i am critical of the general approach as regards the imbalance between commitments and payments and also, in my view, there are some totally useless lines within the budget on which we should act with courage. as for administrative expenditure, there is no sign of any reduction and it is increasing every year, which is not sustainable at a time when the eu itself is asking for restrictions from the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the reading of the 2016 eu budget. i think it is important that the european parliament should firmly oppose the cuts feared by the council and i hope that our vote will be an impulse for a more balanced agreement to be reached in the conciliation process. i think the text is particularly appropriate where it calls for €800 million to be allocated to the reception of refugees throughout the eu. ensuring that the necessary resources are secured to deal with the refugee crisis is a priority for the s&d group and i am extremely pleased that this paragraph has been included in the reading.
in writing. i have not seen any sign of a reduction in administrative expenditure this year either, but rather a gradual increase in it, which is why i voted against the report. nevertheless, i am pleased that the plenary has finally agreed to the m5s motion against the economic support - through european funds - of the breeding of bulls for bullfighting shows. instead of financing farmers for years, these funds have been used to support, even with 129 million a year, farms for unworthy spectacles based on the martyrdom of innocent animals. today, with the approval of two amendments put forward by the five star movement, the european parliament has called on the member states and the commission to stop funding this sector. the first was to ask for the cap to exclude from next year's budget the funds allocated to breeding bulls for fighting. in the second, we urged the commission to exclude such funding for ever, because it is a clear violation of the european convention.
in writing. ‒ although i am opposed to the idea of enlarging the staff of the eu institutions, particularly the court of justice, i support the report in that it calls for equal representation of the member states and limits the number of appointments, after verifying the functioning of the court itself. for these reasons i voted in favour of the text under vote.
in writing. - there is no final vote on the second reading. in the absence of a detailed analysis of the functioning of the court, i am opposed to any proposal to increase the number of judges, especially in the case of the court of justice; i have nevertheless supported the amendments which ensure equal representation of the member states and limit the number of appointments, which can only be made after an analysis of the functioning of the court.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending protocol no 3 on the statute of the court of justice of the european union. in october 2014, the court of justice proposed to double the number of judges of the court (an additional twenty-eight). the council immediately agreed to the new proposals. however, it is not understood how in 2013 nine judges were sufficient to solve the problems of the court while in 2014 another twenty-eight are needed. the report stressed the lack of good faith in such a change in the number of judges, linking it to the council's decision, which was in favour of the proposal as it would allow each member state to appoint its own judge. i therefore voted against the council's position because it shows a profound disregard for european taxpayers' money, since each judicial office costs more than one million euro a year and the salaries of all of them would increase the eu's structural expenditure by more than twenty million euro a year.
in writing. ‒ the court of justice of the eu has proposed a legislative revision to appoint 12 new judges, due to the increase in workload. the ep voted in favour at first reading but the council failed to appoint any judges, so the court proposed to double the number of judges from 28 to 56. apart from this inconsistency, i believe that the european union should not appoint judges in the same way as it appoints political commissioners. the judges are not commissioners of the member states and should not be appointed as such. judges must be chosen for their technical and legal expertise and for their independence. only in this way can the quality of decision-making, honesty, impartiality and resistance to any pressure to which they may be subjected be guaranteed. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation, as i believe that the european parliament should reject the council's position for a number of reasons: firstly, because it shows a profound disregard for the money of the european taxpayer. secondly, for reasons also related to the dignity of justice itself, the eu should not in fact appoint judges in the same way as political commissioners. i also believe that the proposal of the court of justice, if implemented, could have serious long-term repercussions for the judicial system of the union. in fact, many elements of the proposal would require serious and impartial analysis and impact assessment. however, no cost-benefit analysis has been carried out. i also agree with the proposals for improvements to analyse the overall functioning of the union's judiciary, such as the recruitment of judges by open competition between professors of law of recognised merit and between judges of the higher courts of the individual member states, the appointment of each judge for a term of office of nine years only, with no renewal or extension, and full respect for gender equality in the recruitment of judges.
in writing. ‒ the gradual expansion of the powers of the court of justice of the european union since its establishment and the increasing assertion of european law in national legal systems have meant that the number of legal proceedings to be conducted by the general court has steadily increased. the failure to introduce measures of a procedural and organisational nature to improve the management of the burden of questions submitted to the court has had a negative impact on the length of the proceedings. i therefore welcome the proposal to increase the number of members of the european supreme court, so as to facilitate the work of the judges by making it faster and more effective, but at the same time more accurate and attentive, and also allowing european citizens to receive answers and protection of their rights in a reasonable time.
in writing. ‒ in 2011, the court of justice of the eu launched a legislative initiative to amend its statute and allow the appointment of an additional 12 judges to the court justified on the basis of an increase in the workload and the consequent need to reduce the workload per judge and the length of time. in the previous parliament, the ep adopted a first reading position confirming the court's request. however, the council did not appoint any of these 12 judges because the member states did not reach an agreement on the choice of judges. the court of justice has also been the subject of a number of legal proceedings, including the dismissal of the president of the tribunal and the dismissal of the president of the tribunal. the council immediately accepted these new proposals. the proposal would also double the number of referenda and assistants to over 100 and at a time when the eu is imposing severe austerity measures to balance member states' budgets, this is completely unjustified. for the reasons stated above, i vote against.
in writing. when the court of justice of the eu proposed a legislative revision in 2011 to appoint 12 new judges, citing the increase in workload, the ep voted in favour at first reading, thus approving the court's request. however, the council was unable to appoint any judges as no agreement was reached between the member states. the court therefore proposed doubling the number of judges from 28 to 56 in three stages, a proposal which was immediately accepted by the council. parliament must now ratify this new proposal. for our part, and in line with the rapporteur's position, we have tabled amendments to confirm the initial position, namely an increase of 12 judges. the increase in expenditure that would entail the hiring of such a high number of judges would require an increase in expenditure of over eur 20 million. more than 100 staff would have to be hired to support the judges. finally, i would like to make it clear that the judges of an independent body such as the court of justice should not be chosen by political appointments, but should be judged on their experience and independence, thus ensuring an impartial, independent and transparent decision-making process, all of which is lacking in this legislative initiative. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ europe forces italy to close the small courts, but then doubles its judges. this is what emerges from the hypocritical vote by which the european parliament, bending to the council's wishes, reformed the eu court of first instance by increasing its membership from 28 to 56. each new judge, with his office, will cost taxpayers one million euros a year. the reform, which arose from the court of justice's request to increase its staff to cope with excessive workload and the resulting delays, has become an opportunity for member states to increase the number of seats. the judges, however, should not be 'commissioners' of the member states and should not be appointed as such. the speed of justice does not require more judges but a more effective organization of the courts, perhaps alongside the specialised courts already provided for in the treaties. on the contrary, this reform, which was the prelude to the abolition of the civil service tribunal: the court of justice, which had been the first to give european rulings on mobbing and harassment in public offices. there are no more words... but only the vote against this scandalous reform.
in writing. - i voted yes. we cannot deny that the court has seen an exponential increase in the number of cases brought before it over the years. this workload has extended the duration of proceedings and the number of cases pending, making this body much less efficient than demands and expectations. the increase in the number of judges has become a necessity, the community's powers have increased, and we must respond to these numbers.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have decided to give my favourable opinion on this proposal. the increasing importance and impact of european law in national legal systems has led to an increase in the number of cases brought before the european court of justice and its judges. i believe that an increase in the number of members of the european supreme court can help to make their work even more expeditious, accurate and efficient, to the benefit of the demands for justice expressed by european citizens, in order to obtain accurate answers and protection in a more rapid manner.
in writing. ‒ the court of justice of the european union has submitted a request (02074/2011) to the european parliament and the council amending protocol 3 to its statute concerning the increase of the number of judges at the court of justice. i am voting in favour of this request because circumstances such as the increase in the number of cases before the court of first instance, the extension of its powers, the diversification of the legal acts of the institutions, if not accompanied by the same number of procedural and organisational measures, could have a negative impact on the conduct and duration of proceedings.
in writing. ‒ the report we have adopted today starts from the consideration of the progressive enlargement of the powers of the european court of justice: in recent years, the number of cases brought before the community courts has increased considerably, which has also led to a greater number of pending cases and bureaucratic delays. in the absence of reform aimed at renewing the procedural and organisational measures, including an increase in the number of judges at the tribunal itself, the duration of proceedings would only risk increasing. in order to ensure fair and speedy trials, we therefore accept the gradual increase of an additional twenty-eight judges, one for each member state, despite the higher costs which will certainly result from the adoption of this criterion of national representation. we need an efficient legal system and for that reason we can also accept the abolition of the civil service tribunal. finally, we welcome the inclusion of a gender balance criterion and a review clause which will make it possible to assess the impact of this reform on the management of the court's work, which remains the guardian and beacon of european values and integrity.
in writing. ‒ i consider that a reform of the statute of the court of justice of the european union is necessary in the light of the current inability of the court of justice to ensure the conditions for respecting the right to a reasonable period of trial enshrined in article 6 of the echr and article 47 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which is impossible due to an overload of cases before the court, in particular in competition and state aid matters. i have therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i consider the request to increase the number of judges at the court of justice of the european union to be appropriate. the increase in staff will help to shorten the time taken for the proceedings and to make the court more efficient. these improvements will benefit all european citizens and that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in view of the increasing number of cases that the court of justice of the european union has been dealing with in recent years, and in view of the clear need to increase the number of judges to ensure the proper functioning of the court, i voted in favour. however, it is inevitable that the choice of judges by the member states was guided by national interests rather than by merit standards. the court of justice is a very important instrument for protecting the rights of european citizens and i believe it is essential to have common criteria for selection based on the principle of meritocracy and non-discrimination.
in writing. ‒ in 2011, the court of justice of the eu launched a legislative initiative to amend its statute and allow the appointment of an additional 12 judges to the court. in the previous legislature, parliament had adopted a position confirming the court's request. however, the council did not appoint any of these 12 judges, so the court proposed to double the number of judges to 56 and the council readily accepted. parliament was called upon today to ratify this decision, which i personally rejected. firstly, because of the significant budgetary implications at a time when the eu is imposing severe austerity measures on member states. in fact, the proposal to double the number of judges would increase the number of referenda and assistants by more than 100 for an increase in structural expenditure of more than eur 20 million per year. the second reason has to do with the dignity of the judiciary itself; the eu should not appoint judges in the same way as it appoints political commissioners, but they should be chosen for their technical and legal expertise and their independence. only in this way can the quality of decision-making, honesty and impartiality be guaranteed.
in writing. ‒ the mato report on the provisions for fishing in the area covered by the gfcm (general fisheries commission for the mediterranean) is acceptable and does not raise any particular criticisms, so i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ this dossier takes account of the european union's interest in the development and proper exploitation of the living marine resources of the mediterranean and the black sea. the conservation and sustainable exploitation of living marine resources in the area of application and the protection of marine ecosystems where such resources are present play an important role in the context of blue growth and sustainable development. i am therefore pleased that the provisions for fishing in the gfcm agreement area have been approved.
in writing. - approval without final vote. the european parliament declares that the provisions of article 15a to be inserted in regulation (eu) no 1343/2011 concerning derogations from the prohibition on the use of certain gears in the coastal waters of the black sea are of an exceptional nature. they shall take into account the situation in the region where member states have measures in place to allow the use of the gear concerned in accordance with the relevant recommendations of the gfcm. parliament accepts, in this context, the provision authorizing the member states concerned to grant such derogations. it stresses, however, that these provisions are not to be regarded or used as a precedent in any future legislative act.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation for the second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1343/2011 on certain provisions for fisheries in the area covered by the gfcm agreement. in particular, in order to safeguard the development, conservation, rational management and best use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea at levels considered sustainable and with a low risk of depletion, it was necessary to request member states to grant derogations for the use of trawls and seines and the prohibition of coastal trawl fishing in the black sea. parliament accepted the differentiated procedure, which provides for management at national level, with the right of control by the commission, justified by the profound diversity with the mediterranean basin. in addition, the commission will only authorise the vessels after verifying that the conditions laid down in the cgpm recommendation are met. the member states will therefore be able to maintain their national frameworks if they comply with the conditions laid down in the regulation under consideration, and i have therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement on the transposition into union law of a number of recommendations made by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean to which the european parliament and the council have responded. my vote in favour is due to the fact that the agreement in question provides an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation aimed at promoting the development, conservation, rational management and better use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea at levels considered sustainable and with a low risk of depletion. it also provides for measures to exploit red coral and to limit bycatch of certain marine species such as turtles and whales, and a coherent framework for catch data to be reported to the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation because the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), which covers the mediterranean, the black sea and the intermediate waters, has adopted a series of measures aimed at ensuring the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the mitigation of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and cetaceans in fishing activities and the sustainable development of small pelagic stocks in the adriatic sea. i also agree with the rapporteur that the recommendations of the cgpm represent a sufficient level of regulatory protection and that they must be implemented before any new measures are taken. the agreement takes account of measures already in place at national level, with the member states having already understood many of these recommendations. finally, i am very optimistic, since a final political agreement was reached during the second trilogue at the end of march. the objectives of the european parliament have been achieved, so the voice of the citizens has been respected.
in writing. ‒ the gfcm agreement provides an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation to promote the development, conservation, rational management and better use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea at levels considered sustainable and at low risk of depletion. i fully agree with the national management of derogations from the ban on trawling or the collection of red coral, but always keeping in mind the commission's right of control.
in writing. ‒ the gfcm agreement provides for cooperation to promote the development, conservation and rational management of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea, but aims to adopt measures to exploit red coral and limit the catches of certain species such as sea turtles and cetaceans. in view of the continuing exploitation of marine resources and the lack of control of the mediterranean coastlines, i can only vote in favour of the adoption of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for the second reading on the council position with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain provisions for fisheries in the area covered by the gfcm agreement because i consider it important that the gfcm recommendations and suggestions are incorporated into community law. the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean plays an important role in cooperation between countries for the development, conservation, management and sustainable use of the marine resources of the mediterranean and the black sea. these recommendations cover important issues such as sustainable fishing for red coral, bycatch of turtles, seabirds, seals and whales, and exploitation of small pelagic stocks. i share the view of the rapporteur during the negotiations with the other institutions that the derogations granted are exceptional in nature, that they do not constitute legislative precedents and that they may be amended if certain risks become apparent. the commission and parliament will monitor these derogations closely, if they are granted by individual member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the provisions for fishing in the gfcm area. those provisions provide an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation to promote the development, conservation, management and better use of marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing opportunities for the black sea are not exceeded. i hope that the member states which do not have a national framework will be able to set up one in accordance with the conditions of the regulation under consideration.
in writing. i have decided to give a favourable opinion on this draft resolution. the granting of derogations on fishing methods to the countries bordering the black sea is justified by the diversity of its basin compared to the mediterranean, which discourages fishing techniques other than trawling in coastal areas. in particular, the draft resolution in question seeks to authorize a limited number of vessels to use trawls within the black sea coastal zone on an exceptional basis. i think it is appropriate to point out here the efforts of this parliament to protect red coral in the black sea coastal areas, which have been included in this measure by compromise.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the recommendation for the second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1343/2011 on certain provisions for fisheries in the area covered by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) agreement. i welcome the agreement reached by the european parliament and the council on the transposition into union law of a number of recommendations made by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean, which provides an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation aimed at promoting the development, conservation, rational management and better use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea at levels considered sustainable and with a low risk of depletion. in the meantime, it should be recalled that member states that already have national frameworks may maintain them and member states that wish to establish national frameworks may do so on a provisional basis, provided that an appropriate national management framework is already in place.
in writing. ‒ the recommendation provides for derogations from the prohibition on inshore trawl fishing in the black sea, in particular as regards the use of trawls and gillnets, the minimum base diameter of colonies, and red coral harvesting gear and devices. i voted in favour of this recommendation because i consider that the provisions in article 15a to be inserted in regulation (eu) no 1343/2011 concerning derogations from the prohibition on the use of certain gears in the coastal waters of the black sea are of a completely exceptional nature. they shall take into account the situation in the region where member states have already put in place measures to allow the use of the gear concerned in accordance with the relevant recommendations of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm).
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to transpose into union law a set of recommendations made by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), which provides an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation to promote the development, conservation and sustainable management of fisheries resources in the mediterranean and the black sea. i voted in favour of the agreement reached because i believe that during the negotiations some of the problems that existed at first reading have been resolved.
in writing. ‒ following the establishment of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), the european union acceded to the agreement concluded therein, which provides a framework for multilateral cooperation aimed at promoting the development, conservation, rational management and best use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea at sustainable levels. parliament has now discussed the amendment of regulation 1343/2011 amending certain provisions for fishing in the gfcm agreement area previously adopted by virtue of accession to the gfcm. the amendments are intended to incorporate into european legislation the recent conservation and control measures adopted by the gfcm, including measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral and for the incidental capture of seabirds, turtles, seals and cetaceans, but also some exceptional derogations for trawling in the black sea. we have now reached the conclusion that the derogation from the trawl ban cannot be used as a precedent in future legislation. the commission will also be vigilant to ensure that the risks arising from the derogations do not materialise. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this european parliament recommendation because i am convinced that the marine ecosystem must be protected through a number of measures, including the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of bycatch of birds and sea turtles and the protection of other species inhabiting our seas. i hope that the regulation on fishing in the areas covered by the gfcm (general fisheries commission for the mediterranean) will be amended as soon as possible, taking account of these recommendations.
in writing. ‒ the marketing of genetically modified food or feed is a matter of concern to all european citizens. the commission cannot impose such an important choice on the member states, each country must be free to introduce or not to introduce into its territory food or feed containing or based on gmos. to this end, a proposal was submitted to amend regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 by introducing article 34a, which would allow states to ban food or feed containing or based on gmos without, however, invoking environmental or health reasons which are subject to the exclusive assessment of the european food safety authority (efsa). but such a course would have exposed the states to legal proceedings for hindering the free movement of goods. we tabled amendments to commit the commission not to authorise new gm food or feed and not to renew expired authorisations until agreement was reached on a new proposal but of course it was rejected. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i did not intend to vote in favour of this report because i believe that our first duty is to protect the quality products of our entrepreneurs and the right of our citizens to know what ends up on their plates. i am in favour of mandatory origin labelling and against gmos, which are exclusively for the benefit of multinational companies.
in writing. ‒ my vote in plenary confirms what was approved in the envi and agri committees and therefore the rejection of the commission's proposal. while it is true that the existing legislation on the authorisation of the marketing of products containing gmos needs to be revised and that this process needs to be further democratized, the solution to this problem cannot be found in proposals which risk being difficult to apply by contradicting principles guaranteed by the union, such as free movement within the internal market. for these reasons, and given the impracticability of the present proposal, we expect the commission to commit itself to formulating a new proposal compatible with the internal market and the eu's international trade obligations, and able to take into account the needs of european production along with the possible consequences for the environment and human health.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the commission's proposal on the use of genetically modified food and feed contains several shortcomings which affect its effectiveness. for example, it is difficult to see how the member states which have opted out of this regulation will be able to enforce it without reintroducing a whole series of controls which would interfere with the functioning of the union's greatest achievement, the single market.
in writing. ‒ the rejection of the commission proposal in plenary is based on the lack of an impact assessment and the difficulty of implementing it as there are no longer any border controls for agricultural products within the eu. however, the issue of genetically modified food cannot be forgotten: the drafting of a new text focusing on the risk assessment and authorisation process for new transgenic varieties at community level will be useful for the debate and will pave the way for the finalisation of legislation in this area. the risk that the commission proposal will not be able to be implemented in practice and the consequent danger of reintroducing controls at the internal borders of the union between pro- and anti-gmo countries, seriously damaging the european internal market, highlights the need for further deepening of the parliamentary debate and integrated studies on this important subject.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the rejection by parliament of the commission proposal, which i agreed with in principle, because: a member state, being able to prohibit the use of a gmo feed, must be left free to assume sovereign responsibilities towards its citizens (farmers in this case); the very case in question demonstrates the fallacy of one of the founding pillars of the eu: the free movement of goods and services.
in writing. ‒ i would remind you that 19 out of 28 member states have rejected the cultivation of gmos. we have therefore tabled an amendment committing the commission not to authorise new gm food or feed and not to renew expired authorisations until agreement is reached on a new proposal. unfortunately our amendment did not pass, so i abstained from the final vote to point out the distance both from the original commission proposal and from the solution chosen to send it back to the sender, being certain that there will be no more (at least not for the immediate future) the possibility of handing back the sovereignty of food choices to the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i am concerned about the lack of an impact assessment and the compatibility of the measures taken by the member states with the internal market, wto rules and the feasibility of the proposal. in particular, since the adoption of the proposal was not preceded by an assessment of all the possible consequences and options available, the rapporteur considers that the proposal is in conflict with the commitments to 'better regulation' and 'transparency' made by the new commission, and i agree. i also agree with the rapporteur that the proposal could have far-reaching consequences for the functioning of the internal market in food and feed and for the competitiveness of the agricultural sector in the union, as the eu is still heavily dependent on the supply of protein from genetically modified sources, and considering that the proposal is likely to have an indirect negative effect on imports, i am of the opinion that the proposal could seriously damage livestock production and also have a negative impact on agriculture in the eu. finally, since border controls no longer exist in the eu agricultural sector, reintroducing such controls between member states would be tantamount to erasing the economic gains of the european customs union and the single market.
in writing. ‒ as regards the proposal for a regulation concerning the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory, i am in full agreement with the rapporteur's view that the commission's proposal should be rejected. i believe that the proposal may have an indirect negative effect on imports and that it may have a negative impact on agriculture in the eu. to date, there is no evidence to show that the consumption of gm foods can have consequences for human health and the commission proposal does not provide the necessary legal certainty and the appropriate tools for member states who legitimately wish to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory.
in writing. ‒ to date, no qualified majority has been reached in the technical evaluation committee, which includes representatives of the member states, for or against proposals for authorisations for the marketing of food and feed containing or derived from gmos. the commission has therefore always exercised the legislative prerogatives which enable it to issue its own positive opinion. the commission has recently tabled an amendment to regulation 1829/2003 concerning the placing on the market of gm feed, with a view to introducing another article (31b) which ultimately aims to give member states the possibility of banning food or feed containing or based on gmos without, however, invoking environmental or health reasons. following the rejection of our amendment proposal which commits the commission not to authorise new food or feed based on gmos and not to renew expired authorisations until agreement has been reached on a new proposal, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's resolution rejects the commission's proposal for a number of reasons, including the lack of an impact assessment of the possible consequences for the functioning of the internal market in food and feed and for the competitiveness of the union's agricultural sector; the commission has also been asked to examine the feasibility of the proposal, since the reintroduction of controls between member states would be tantamount to wiping out the economic achievements of the european customs union and the single market. i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution because i believe that these concerns are well founded.
in writing. ‒ the legal framework for genetically modified food and feed does not yet allow member states to express all their concerns in an area of great public interest and which covers several aspects: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the basis of the following criteria: the proposal for a regulation under discussion was not preceded by an assessment of all the possible impacts and alternative options available. in this context, the commission's attempt to adapt the legal framework to allow national governments to better express their views on the use of gmos is likely to create more problems than solutions. i hope that a broad debate will be held to come up with a proposal that is as democratic as possible and informed by the principle of legal certainty as regards the power of member states to decide whether to use or prohibit gmos on their territory.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament did well to reject the proposal on the marketing of products containing gmos. i consider it to be an inconsistent and insufficient proposal on the issue of licences to be handled on a case-by-case basis, state by state, because it does not propose any regulation to protect citizens. the commission is thus ignoring the commitments made by mr juncker himself, proposing ambiguous solutions, citing only food for human consumption and fodder/feed, while it has not been clear on seed imports and the necessary restrictions. parliament was very explicit in january 2014 in calling for clear rules starting from its opposition to gm maize; the commission should have interpreted this disagreement with coherent proposals for harmonization and not by turning the matter over to the far west of multinationals and the gmo lobby. our position is absolutely against the marketing of gmos: we are also opposed to ttip, which we consider to be a horse whore of the agro-food multinationals.
in writing. ‒ with this vote, parliament has rejected a commission proposal which is totally unacceptable, which would have constituted an obstacle to the internal market and a major step backwards from the present situation, throwing consumers and farmers into chaos. the commission's work in this case must also be criticised from a technical point of view, since it has not presented any impact assessment or alternative possibilities. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. today we rejected the european commission's proposal on the use of genetically modified food and feed, sending a strong signal on a subject that has sparked a heated debate in the public, mainly on the possible consequences for human health. the envi committee had already spoken out against this proposal from the european commission. i have repeatedly expressed serious concerns over the past few months about the lack of an impact assessment, the compatibility of the measures taken by the member states with the internal market and the feasibility of the proposal. i believe that the proposal may have a negative impact on agriculture in the eu, since the eu is still heavily dependent on the supply of protein from genetically modified sources, and considering that the proposal is likely to have an indirect negative effect on imports. finally, we cannot think of having a leopard-shaped internal market, after all the efforts we have made over the years to remove barriers within the eu to ensure a single market.
in writing. ‒ on 22 april 2015, the commission adopted a proposal for a revision of the gmo regulation concerning the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory. considering that the european union depends on the supply of proteins from genetically modified sources, considering that the proposal is likely to have an indirect negative effect on imports, considering that border controls no longer exist in the eu agricultural sector and their reintroduction would be tantamount to erasing the economic achievements of the european customs union and the single market, and also considering that the proposal does not provide the necessary legal certainty and adequate tools for member states that legitimately intend to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory, i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003.
in writing. ‒ on 22 april 2015, the commission presented a proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 concerning the possibility for member states to adopt measures restricting or prohibiting, under certain conditions, the use on their territory of gmos and authorised genetically modified food and feed (opt-out). this proposal does not appear to be preceded by a careful assessment of all the possible consequences for the competitiveness of the agricultural sector in the union. given that the eu is still dependent on the supply of protein from genetically modified sources, this proposal could have a negative impact on imports and agriculture in the eu. i therefore vote in favour of mr la via's report, which rejects the commission's proposal.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report because of my serious concerns about the european commission's proposal. the new rules, which increase the discretion of member states on the use of gmos in agriculture and trade, raise serious doubts about their effectiveness and their compliance with the rules governing the single market. the introduction of several regulations would be contrary to the need for greater integration and would jeopardise the interconnection between the different food production chains. the measure could also negate one of the founding principles of the single market: the free movement of goods. the lack of frontiers also raises serious doubts about the controls that would govern the introduction of gmo products into the various markets. the division of the single market would also threaten competitive balances. different access to gm feed, on which the european agricultural sector is heavily dependent, could in fact alter the competitiveness of one member state compared to another. the disparity between the various markets could damage the international trade negotiations conducted by the ec as a unit. in the agricultural field, the negotiators should represent at the same time the different interests of the countries favouring the use and marketing of gmos and those opposing it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 as regards the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the use of gmos on their territory. firstly, i am afraid that, as trade in gmos crosses national borders, the regulation proposed by the commission may prove impossible to enforce, since the reintroduction of border controls between pro- and anti-gmo countries would be incompatible with the single market and the customs union. furthermore, since the adoption of the proposal was not preceded by an assessment of all the possible consequences and alternatives available, i believe that the proposal is in conflict with the commitments to 'better regulation' and 'transparency' made by the new commission. finally, i have serious concerns about the far-reaching consequences that the proposal could have for the functioning of the internal market in food and feed and for the competitiveness of the agricultural sector. as the eu is heavily dependent on protein supplies from gmo sources, the proposal could also have an indirect negative impact on imports.
in writing. ‒ fearing that the possibility given to member states to decide whether to ban or restrict food and feed containing genetically modified organisms could make imports difficult and, consequently, harm the feed industry and community agriculture, i felt it necessary to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ in april, the european commission adopted a proposal for a revision of the gmo regulation which would, among other things, allow member states to restrict or prohibit the use of gmos that have already been authorised on their territory. i voted in favour of rejecting the commission proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1829/2003. i agree with the rapporteur that the proposal was not preceded by an adequate impact assessment. i also believe that the implementation of this proposal could have negative consequences for the functioning of the internal market and the competitiveness of the agricultural sector in the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report rejecting the proposal adopted by the european commission for the revision of the gmo regulation, because it was not preceded by an impact assessment taking into account all the possible consequences, including negative ones, that could fall on agriculture. the proposal would allow each eu country to restrict or prohibit the use of gmos already authorised on its territory, which could have an indirect negative effect on imports. i am also not in favour of reintroducing border controls for agricultural products from the european union: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the use of genetically modified food and feed, in which parliament rejects the european commission's proposal that would allow individual member states to restrict or prohibit the sale and use on their territory of gm food or feed already approved at eu level. we believe that this decision should be taken at european level and not by individual member states, to avoid the renationalisation of restrictions and prohibitions in this area leading to a dangerous fragmentation of the internal market and the customs union. the commission proposal could prove unfeasible or lead to the reintroduction of border controls between countries in favour of and those against gmos, given the divisions that exist on the subject. in the resolution adopted today, we therefore call on the commission to present a new legislative proposal which takes account of these concerns and provides an assessment of the potential consequences or other viable options.
in writing. ‒ we are very much in favour of states having the possibility to ban gmos. the european commission's proposal seems to be moving in this direction. it just looks like: the commission has not, however, been able to establish that the prohibition is in fact effective. we in the m5s had tabled amendments to the legislative proposal in the envi committee precisely to make it applicable. the envi committee, on the other hand, tabled a simple resolution in plenary rejecting the european commission's proposal. we abstained to stress our distance both from the impracticable possibility of a ban originally proposed by the european commission (we want a practicable ban!) and from its simple rejection. this rejection of the proposal precludes the possibility of states banning gmos, especially in view of the fact that the commission has already announced that it will not present a new legislative proposal on the subject. my vote could have been in favour if our amendment had been adopted, which would have committed the european commission not to authorise new food or feed based on gmos and not to renew expired authorisations until agreement had been reached on a new proposal to make national bans possible.
in writing. ‒ i share the concerns expressed in the report by mr la via on the use of gmos in the eu and for this reason i believe that the commission's proposal should be rejected. the institutions can and must make every effort to protect the health of citizens: effective measures are required, based on a careful assessment of all possible consequences of the use of the gmo and of available alternative options. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a common effort is needed to promote an open discussion on new technologies, which will help to safeguard the tradition of european agri-food production and to meet the growing needs of european citizens and beyond to meet their food needs. only through a thorough debate on new technologies and their impact on the lives of each of us can we make progress in the interests of all.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a commission regulation on the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory. parliament rejected the proposal as it did not add anything new to the existing level of protection. in fact, any national bans on the use of genetically modified food and feed would be impossible to implement because of internal market and wto rules. i have had the opportunity to listen to the concerns of citizens and consumer associations about the risks of consuming gmos. i hope that president juncker will stick to his programme and that the commission will come forward with a new proposal on this. the revision of the rules for the authorisation of gmos in europe is necessary but must better reflect the opinion of the majority of citizens. until then, the commission cannot use its powers to authorise new gmos.
in writing. since the beginning of my mandate, i have been fighting to make europe a gmo-free area. gm food and feed should not enter european territory. the eu imports 32 million tonnes of soybeans each year for its own livestock feed, and 90% of it is genetically modified. the commission proposal would give individual member states a false freedom of choice because it would expose any country that chose not to trade in gm food and feed on its territory to the denunciation of multinational companies. in this way, millions of tonnes of gm feed would continue to reach europe, feeding our animals and, indirectly, us. it is therefore necessary to reject it, but it is not enough: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the foodstuffs are not genetically modified. a behavior that could only see me not satisfied with simple rejection and, for this reason, i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ proposals to encourage and facilitate the opening of the european market to the marketing of food produced by so-called innovative technologies and food from so-called traditional third countries have been the subject of heated debate in the european parliament. the novel food market raises a number of legitimate concerns as regards the protection of consumer health. the economic potential of the expansion of this market must not be sacrificed to the necessary guarantees of protection for citizens, established in accordance with well-defined scientific standards and above all geared to respect for the precautionary principle. the political orientation of the european commission and the council, however, shows a very different picture. the problem of the vague definition of what should or can be defined as a food of 'traditional origin', which also includes the marketing of insects, is compounded by the real risk of seeing foodstuffs in our supermarkets with additives obtained from gmos, products containing nanoparticles in high percentages, foodstuffs with nutritional substitutes of synthetic origin, and also failing to comply with the appropriate information requirements. i voted against because this danger must be stopped, in the interests of both the health of european citizens and the environment itself.
in writing. ‒ i did not vote for the nicholson report because i am opposed to the so-called 'new foods' - insects, algae, nanomaterials, food produced in laboratories and new colours - that will be on our tables, while certain foods that have always been linked to our territorial traditions are not protected, and are even opposed by the regulations of european bureaucrats, with enormous damage to both our productive fabric and our peoples.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i am convinced that the introduction of new food products into the single market must be subject to controls to ensure that these foods are not harmful and to protect the health of european citizens.
in writing. - i vote against it. it's for the traditional products, we leave the grasshoppers, larvae and ants elsewhere...
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on novel foods. the agri-food sector is a constantly evolving sector which needs an up-to-date regulatory framework to keep pace with technological developments. at present, the human consumption of certain insect species, classified as novel foods, is already permitted in several member states, including belgium, the netherlands, denmark and great britain. the report we have adopted has brought the legislation up to date. while simplifying the current authorisation procedures for novel foods, the text ensures a high level of protection of human health and consumer interests through a systematic centralised risk assessment by efsa and the application of the precautionary principle. at the same time, additional specific labelling requirements are provided with the aim of informing final consumers of any specific food characteristics or properties of these new products. the text adopted ensures consumer protection and keeps legislation up to date with scientific and technological progress in the field. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the report provides for the possibility of authorising new or traditional foods provided that they are not disadvantageous and not necessarily nutritionally advantageous to existing ones. where efsa or the commission has requested additional documentation from applicants and they do not provide it, the assessment shall not be suspended but shall proceed with the documentation available. the meaning of the term 'significant number of people' who would need to have consumed a food for at least 25 years for it to be recognised as a traditional food, remains undefined. coverage is granted for animal clones but not for offspring. finally, the application of the precautionary principle in the event of scientific uncertainty as to the safety of a particular food is mentioned only in recital 17, whereas the precautionary principle is indicated in the article as one of the parameters on which the commission will base its opinion. the actual consideration of this claim can already be deduced from the way in which the nanoparticles have been treated, which, applying the indications in the recital and the efsa conclusions, should have been reduced to a maximum of 10% and prohibited if the lack of sufficiently sensitive instrumentation would prevent the achievement of the stated objective. so i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the current authorisation procedure, before marketing, has been criticised as being too costly and time-consuming. one of the objectives of the commission's new proposal is to simplify and streamline the regulatory process, thereby reducing the administrative burden on applicants, the authorities of the member states and the commission itself. furthermore, the commission has rightly recognised that long delays in the procedure, as well as the costs of submitting the application, have created a barrier to innovation and participation by smes. therefore, while a simplified authorisation procedure will undoubtedly reduce the costs for applicants, it will inevitably be an effort that can entail considerable burdens, while encouraging the competitiveness and innovation of food business operators should remain the main objective and therefore obtain the appropriate level of protection. as regards the insect controversy, the aim is to regulate an area which has hitherto been the subject of a regulatory vacuum. no authorization has been granted, contrary to what the newspapers say.
in writing. ‒ considering that the authorisation of a novel food constitutes a barrier to trade and prevents the access to the eu market of products that have a safe and historically proven food use in their country of origin, i fully support the implementation of the new regulation, which, in addition to ensuring food safety, aims to streamline and simplify the authorisation procedure for novel nutrients through a list of novel foods authorised in the union. this new regulation will bring benefits in many ways: it will reduce the administrative burden, time and cost of the authorisation process and increase the competitiveness of the european food industry, in particular smes.
in writing. ‒ the review aims to facilitate the procedures for authorising the placing on the market of novel foods and traditional foods from third countries. it should be recalled that this proposal follows on from the earlier proposal that was rejected in march 2011 due to the failure to reach an agreement on the use of animal clones for food. although the market for novel foods could expand mainly due to the influence of traditional foods from third countries, between 2004 and 2014 the number of authorisations granted by the commission or individual national authorities was around 100 and 3 cases of rejection were officially reported. furthermore, beyond immediate food or food preparations, all food additives, including those from gmos (although gmos are excluded from the scope of new foods as they are already covered by regulation 1829/2013), micro-organisms such as yeasts, or individual compounds with particular properties play an important role in the novel food market. following the rejection of our amendment which would have prohibited the use of nanotechnologies in view of the current toxicological uncertainties and the impossibility of assessing their presence in concentrations below 50% of the total, i decided to vote against.
in writing. i fully support the proposal for legislation to monitor and guarantee the trade in novel foods. the union must reiterate its role as guarantor of the health and well-being of its citizens and consumers, and as such, safeguard through appropriate checks that the new foods that arrive on our tables are safe for human and environmental health.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain from voting on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on novel foods because i am not completely satisfied with the compromise reached with the council. the subject of novel foods is a very sensitive one. on the one hand, we have the fundamental values of the protection of human health, the defence of healthy food and the characteristics of european products and the protection of consumer rights. the commission has also taken the view that the european union should be able to take action to combat the spread of the disease by means of a community action programme. i think that regulation is necessary because of the technological progress that has taken place over almost 20 years since the 1997 regulation, knowing that these new products would still be on our tables because of globalisation. however, its content must take account of the principles of precaution, protection of the environment and health. i therefore supported the amendments seeking greater powers of control by parliament, a discipline that imposes specific regulations pending, the indication of the origin of the product from cloned animals and a request for a moratorium on food produced by nanotechnology, which were unfortunately rejected by the house.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of mr nicholson's report. after a long negotiation we have managed to find a good compromise, which is necessary to replace the old regulation, which dates back to 1997. new products are now part of the common diet. moreover, both in italy and in europe we have a large community of foreigners and we must therefore adapt the food consumed on our continent, also aligning it with the needs and tastes of citizens of other countries who have had access to the european continent. the overall framework of the standard will enable our industries to be more competitive, innovating and bringing new products to the market. finally, i would remind consumers that the european food safety authority (efsa) will monitor everything that is placed on the market, guaranteeing the highest levels of safety for european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on novel foods. the commission adopted a proposal for a revision of the novel food regulation in 2013 which aims to ensure food safety, protect public health and ensure the functioning of the internal market for food products, while promoting innovation for the food sector. the ultimate aim of this proposal is to update the categories of novel foods, taking into account the impact of new technologies on food products, to revise the authorisation process in order to improve efficiency and transparency, and to simplify procedures for food imported from third countries with a proven history of safe food use.
in writing. ‒ the rules on novel foods date back to regulation no 258 of the european parliament and of the council of 1997 which is currently totally inadequate in relation to scientific and technological progress affecting the food sector. this progress has led to the development of a number of new food products or food ingredients with intentionally modified primary molecular structure not covered by the 1997 regulation. this therefore requires an amendment. the report by mr nicholson, to which i shall vote in favour, is intended to encourage a new harmonised procedure at eu level by the food safety authority (efsa) which should carry out an assessment of cases where a food has an effect on human health, also taking into account new genetically modified food on the eu internal market.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the draft report, as it sets clear deadlines and definitions for the whole process of placing novel foods on the market, taking into account the precautionary, environmental and food safety principles, and also provides safeguards against adverse impact on human health. the proposal, which is necessary to ensure food safety, aims to protect public health and ensure the functioning of the internal market for food products, while supporting innovation in the food sector. it aims to streamline the authorisation procedure in order to improve its efficiency and transparency. the definition of novel food is also clarified, taking into account new technologies that have an impact on food production. finally, a faster and more appropriate safety assessment is introduced for traditional foods from third countries with a reliable history of food production.
in writing. ‒ the european commission adopted in december 2013 a proposal for a revision of the novel food regulation with the aim of updating the categories of novel foods, revising the authorisation process and simplifying procedures for food imported from third countries. since the entry into force of regulation (ec) no 258/97, a wide range of new food products and food ingredients have been developed, including foods containing, consisting of, or produced from micro-organisms, fungi and algae, or foods with an intentionally modified primary molecular structure. this kind of food has called into question the adequacy of the current definition of 'novel food'. i therefore believe that an amendment to the regulation is absolutely necessary in the light of scientific and technological progress in the food sector. i voted in favour of this report in order to achieve as soon as possible greater clarity on the definition of 'novel food' and to provide for stricter provisions on consumer protection. my vote does not involve any judgment on the merits of the use of algae and insect-based foods, which i personally find objectionable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i support the european commission's decision to update the regulation on novel food categories and to simplify and improve the authorisation procedures for food imported from third countries.
in writing. ‒ the proposal voted on today aims to encourage innovation in the food sector, through a new and simplified procedure for new products and ingredients entering the market. that is why i voted in favour. the previous legislation was from 1997, so it was necessary to update the rules to keep pace with technological developments over the last 20 years. one of the most significant changes concerns the inclusion in the definition of 'new food' of foods with altered molecular structure, fungi, algae, insects and food obtained from cell and tissue cultures. the new legislation will increase transparency, as the commission will have to publish a summary of all new applications for authorisation and a list of rejected applications. the eu list of authorised novel foods will then be made available to the public.
in writing. the aim of the report is to facilitate the procedures for authorising the placing on the market of all foods produced using technologies developed after 1997 and defined as innovative, as well as traditional foods from third countries. i voted against this regulation because there are serious concerns about food containing nanoparticles. since a 50% tolerance threshold has been established, it was decided to allow percentages in food that are 2.5 times higher than what is considered advisable and to disregard the migration of nanoparticles that may be contained in food contact packaging. efsa itself had suggested a limit of no more than 10% in accordance with the precautionary principle, given the lack of scientific evidence on the behaviour of these particles on the metabolism of humans. food additives, including those derived from gmos, micro-organisms such as yeasts, individual compounds with special properties (methylcellulose in gluten-free products) also play a too important role in novel foods. once again, the precautionary principle protecting european consumers is being overridden in the name of profit.
in writing. ‒ i consider the girling report to be unobjective and unbalanced in its assessment of the emission limit values for certain pollutants, in particular those related to methane, which would have negative repercussions on the agricultural sector, which is already badly affected by the crisis, and for these reasons i did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the girling report on the emission of certain air pollutants because, although there were conditions for doing more, the overall assessment is positive. the limits for pollutants have been lowered compared with the envi proposal, but ammonia and methane (with the exception of internal emissions) have been kept within the scope of the directive. unfortunately, mercury was not included, but at least the request was sent to the european commission for an impact study to be followed by a legislative proposal. the situation with regard to air pollution is serious, the air we breathe every day is becoming more polluted and it is, in my view, essential to have a strong nec directive which can drive ambitious air quality policies in all sectors.
in writing. ‒ the eu commission's proposal to set higher national limits on emissions of the main pollutants is right. air pollution causes about 400 000 premature deaths in the eu each year. the new rules could save up to 40 billion euros by 2030 to combat environmental pollution. europe wants to set itself ambitious targets, including for the cop21 in paris. the new national emission limits (necs) are for sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox), non-methane organic compounds (nmocs), methane (ch4), ammonia (nh3) and particulate matter (pm up to 2.5 micrometres). the new rules will also help to reduce mercury (hg) emissions. it is right to exclude methane produced naturally by cows from the directive. but now we must continue to fight against food waste, also to reduce pollution and soil consumption. in fact, about one third of the world's food produced for human consumption is lost or wasted along the food chain. this amounts to some 1.6 billion tonnes of food being wasted. and we must not forget that in many countries around the world, we eat far too much meat than we actually need in our diet.
in writing. - i vote against it. revision of the air quality directive, which sets new national emission ceilings (necs) from 2020 to 2030. the commission proposal is as follows: - makes the intermediate thresholds mandatory until 2025; - extends the scope to other gases (methane ch4, ammonia nh3, mercury hg). we are all aware of the extreme difficulties that local authorities have in complying with the current limits, especially in certain unfavourable geographical areas such as padania. we therefore consider it unnecessarily burdensome to set mandatory reduction thresholds even at the intermediate stage, by 2025. the addition of methane and ammonia, which has a significant impact on the agricultural (livestock) sector, is particularly controversial. but it's the addition of methane that's the discriminant for our final vote. as a greenhouse gas, we interpret its inclusion in this directive as a (yet another) clever attempt to mix anti-pollution legislation with that related to climate policies (as the saying goes: pears with apples).
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec. i believe that improving air quality in the community should be a priority objective for the european institutions. in today's vote parliament has done its part by approving a text which can significantly reduce air pollution and improve air quality and save people's lives, as pollution in europe causes hundreds of thousands of deaths and has a negative impact on the gdp of member states with very high health-related costs. but parliament alone cannot change things, we need a joint effort by the commission, member states and manufacturing sectors to achieve the enormous benefits, both in terms of public health and economic benefits, that cleaner air can bring.
in writing. ‒ as you know, air pollution is a serious environmental health problem in the european union. indeed, poor air quality is estimated to be responsible for over 400,000 premature deaths each year and causes illness, hospitalization and millions of lost working days, as well as damage to biodiversity, crops and buildings. i could therefore only vote in favour of a text aimed at limiting emissions, providing access to up-to-date information on the progress of national reduction commitments, taking specific measures to protect the health of vulnerable groups, supporting the transition to investment in clean and efficient technologies with tax incentives, organising regular and routine environmental inspections and ensuring public consultation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it deals with an important and crossborder issue for both human health and the environment, which concerns all citizens of the union and is now a strategic priority. in addition, poor air quality causes premature death, sickness absence from work, high health care costs, lost productivity, reduced crop yields, and damage to buildings. in europe, the total external health costs to society from air pollution are estimated to be between eur 330 and 940 billion per year. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that it is essential to give the competent authorities the power to take the necessary measures to comply with the relevant legislation and to respect the 2030 limits. an excellent example of this would be the introduction of low emission zones and a penalty system based on pollution from vehicles, with the aim of reducing diesel vehicle emissions in urban areas most affected by nitrogen oxides and particulate matter emissions.
in writing. ‒ recognising that transport contributes to air quality, i believe that producers should use clean technologies to reduce emissions of nitrogen oxides (nox), particulate matter and other pollutants. in this respect, i believe that a significant strengthening of the current eu vehicle type-approval system is necessary, including increased control by the european union itself, in particular with regard to market surveillance, coordination and a follow-up system for vehicles sold in the union. i also support a review of the car labelling directive (1999/94/ec) to improve the accuracy of the information provided to consumers. it is important that european citizens regain full confidence in the eu automotive sector, as the european union has a duty to safeguard public health and ensure that consumer rights are respected.
in writing. ‒ air pollution is a serious environmental health problem in the european union. poor air quality is responsible for over 400,000 premature deaths each year and causes disease, hospitalizations and millions of lost work days, as well as damage to biodiversity, crops and buildings. the proposal includes access to up-to-date information on the progress of national reduction commitments; cost-effectiveness of emission reduction measures; specific measures to protect the health of vulnerable groups; having air quality levels recommended by the world health organisation (who); supporting the transition to investment in clean and efficient technologies with tax incentives; regular and routine environmental inspections and market surveillance; public consultation; a 'clean air' fund and a european forum to facilitate the coordinated implementation of the 'clean air' programme. i can only vote in favour of the ambitious objectives described above.
in writing. air pollution is responsible for over 400 000 deaths each year in the european union. the who and the oecd have estimated that the total health costs attributable to air pollution amount to over €1.4 trillion, equivalent to about one tenth of the gdp of the entire european union. the revision of the directive setting maximum concentrations of pollutants is necessary to bring the levels up to date with the requirements of health protection. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products. although the rapporteur succeeded in waterboarding the text produced by the envi committee, we were nevertheless able to maintain certain qualifying points such as the levels for ammonia and those for methane of anthropogenic origin. the commission was given a mandate to examine the possibility of extending the scope of the directive to include mercury, which is a toxic metal. i voted in favour of the amended text, convinced of the urgency of the measure and of the improvement made to the original text which will have to be defended in the negotiations with the council.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement reached between the ep and the council on the european parliament and council directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants because i believe that the eu should have robust legislation to protect air quality. the quality of the air we breathe is not just an environmental issue, but a serious european problem: the data tells us that 90% of the citizens in the eu live in polluted places and that there are about 400,000 premature deaths annually linked to this, costing our health systems hundreds of billions a year. a strong intervention is therefore necessary. i approve the forecast of limits and thresholds for emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia, fine particulate matter, methane and vocs: the commission will also be presenting a report on the implementation of the new eu-wide climate change strategy. finally, i agree with the decision to provide for a certain amount of flexibility on specific points in the light of the situation of our farms, and in particular the exclusion of methane emissions from ruminants: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve air quality.
in writing. ‒ we vote in favour of the revision of the nec directive to take account of the new and ambitious objectives proposed. in fact, despite progress, poor air quality still kills more than 400,000 people a year and costs the health sector between eur 300 and 900 billion a year. in addition, the groups most exposed to health risks are the most fragile: pregnant women, the elderly and low-income families. it is clear that these concerns and the eu's international commitments require reform with new binding targets for 2025 and 2030. we also welcome the introduction of limits, particularly for ammonia, to emissions from the agricultural sector, which is responsible for 40% of air pollution. the cost of inaction is too high and agriculture, like all other sectors, must contribute by limiting its emissions. the proposal also fits within the broader framework of the eu's long-term objectives, with particular reference to the fight against climate change. the revision is in line with the position taken by the european union in the international arena and, in particular, strengthens its role at the forthcoming paris conference.
in writing. ‒ while i understand the difficulties of the rapporteur, i do not agree with the final result. i therefore reserve the right to vote in favour only if the amendments proposed by my group are taken into account. as you know, i am very concerned about the problem of air pollution and i believe that we must continue to work together to solve this problem of enormous importance to the european and international community.
in writing. ‒ environmental pollution causes about 400 000 premature deaths in the eu each year. the new rules contained in the commission's proposal could save up to €40 billion in costs to combat environmental pollution by 2030. the commission proposal repeals and replaces the existing nec directive, setting new emission limits for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and volatile organic compounds other than methane for 2020 and 2030. the proposal also aims to extend the scope of the directive to particulate matter (pm2.5) from 2020 and to methane from 2030. the 2020 targets reflect the commitments that were made at international level under the 2012 gothenburg protocol. in view of the serious health risks and the considerable environmental impacts which still result from air pollution, i hope that my vote in favour will lead to a gradual reduction of harmful emissions into the atmosphere as soon as possible, for the sake of the health of the european citizens.
in writing. ‒ despite the improvements achieved in recent years, air pollution in europe remains a contingent problem, but at the same time we must ensure the right balance between environment and industrial policies, taking into account the technological and economic capabilities of european industry and the possible loss of jobs. the european parliament approved the rapporteur's proposal to postpone the vote on the draft legislative resolution. the matter is therefore considered to be referred back to the committee responsible for reconsideration.
in writing. ‒ air pollution is responsible for the premature deaths of more than 400 000 people each year, with annual global costs estimated at between €300 and €900 billion, according to data provided by the european commission. in addition to the huge human and economic costs, poor air quality is also causing serious damage to the natural environment through phenomena such as eutrophication and acid rain. that is why i voted in favour of the report approving the european commission's proposal to set higher national emission limits for the six main pollutants, including sulphur dioxide, particulate matter and nitrogen oxides. these measures are necessary to combat pollution by these substances in all sectors and to limit their effects on people and the environment. action in this direction was particularly needed with regard to urban areas, where european citizens are exposed to air pollution levels considered harmful to human health.
in writing. ‒ although the limits for pollutants were weakened compared with the envi proposal, it was possible to keep ammonia and methane among the substances covered by the directive. i 'm sorry the mercury was left out . we have, however, succeeded in getting the commission to agree to an impact study followed by a legislative proposal on mercury. air pollution is a serious environmental health problem in the european union. the commission must ensure that all air pollution policies of european origin are fit for purpose in order to achieve air quality objectives in the union. to this end, the commission must also implement without delay the new euro 6 proposal for a regulation on emissions in real driving conditions. the proposal aims at binding emission reduction targets also for 2025 and not just for 2030. but overall my assessment is not unfavourable.
in writing. ‒ the air pollution situation in europe is serious. every year air pollution causes over 400,000 premature deaths in the countries of the european union. strokes, respiratory infections, lung cancers are also on the rise because of the presence in the atmosphere of pollutants that are very harmful to health. air pollution also has a serious and often devastating impact on nature and biodiversity, on crops and, not least, on our artistic and cultural heritage. the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the emissions of co2 from the transport of dangerous goods. only by stepping up our efforts and achieving ambitious targets can we ensure a healthier environment for future generations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because i consider air pollution to be an important problem, which transcends national borders and affects all citizens. the protection of health is an indispensable value and its protection obliges us to make all the necessary efforts. the issue of air pollution has been totally ignored by the political class and this neglect has led to the issue re-emerging today more strongly and worryingly than ever. poor air quality is thought to cause about 400,000 premature deaths a year, resulting in increased health care costs. the economic impact of air pollution is estimated at between eur 330 and 940 billion per year. for these reasons, i believe it is essential to move quickly and to put in place an immediate action plan.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution proposing a revision of the necd (national emissions ceiling) directive in order to reduce toxic emissions that contribute to air pollution. i think it is appropriate to provide for binding limits for six toxic pollutants, which are estimated to cause 690,000 premature deaths every year in the european union alone, with an estimated economic cost to health of between €300 and €900 billion every year. i find the report particularly timely in that it states that the local government level must play a role in defining best practice in dealing with air pollution and at the same time i am pleased that an appropriate formula has been found with regard to methane so that it does not harm our farmers.
in writing. ‒ parliament voted today on a very important report which aims to reduce harmful emissions from a number of pollutants in the years ahead by limiting the impact of these substances on human health and the environment. the cost of poor air quality is higher in terms of human lives than road accidents, making it the leading environmental cause of premature death in the eu. poor air quality also has an impact on quality of life, as it causes asthma and respiratory problems, and has a major impact on health expenditure in the various member states. in the light of these figures, we cannot but rejoice at the important result achieved today. i am also pleased that it has been possible to exclude enteric methane from the scope of the directive, thus meeting the strong concerns expressed by small and mediumsized farmers. i hope that in the coming months the text voted by parliament will not be stripped of its essential content, because firstly our citizens are demanding rules that are strongly protective of their health and, secondly, it is important that the eu sends a strong signal also in the run-up to the 2015 paris conference on climate change (cop21).
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative is the only direct democracy instrument currently in existence, which allows citizens to participate actively in the work of the european union. as a representative of the five star movement, which is fighting to increase direct democracy at all levels of government, i can only be happy. this report is a good starting point. however, more can and must be done: we are not going to vote for the amendments, but we are going to vote for the amendments. in this way the request for amendment would have much more force and would be more democratic. we should also consider a european-wide repeal referendum. we simplify and reduce the bureaucratic steps of the procedure and make the use of computer and electronic tools as easy as possible. finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are reducing the commission's margin of discretion in responding to citizens' requests. the voice of a million or more europeans cannot be ignored. this is to encourage participation and to avoid frustration. bringing the european union closer to its citizens for these reasons, my vote was in favour.
in writing. ‒ the schöpflin report is balanced and acceptable, so i voted in favour of it. the european citizens' initiative is a formidable instrument of democracy, but the rules must change. it is unacceptable that out of 51 initiatives presented only 3 have been successful.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i am firmly convinced that the european citizens' initiative is a fundamental instrument of participatory democracy which allows more than 500 million european citizens to have a direct impact on the legislative process of the european union. this instrument must be strengthened to enable citizens to participate even more actively in the decisions of the institutions.
in writing. - i vote for it. the report, which is not so hyperbolic about the role of the eci, focuses on its shortcomings, first of all the almost zero follow-up given so far by the commission to the only three (out of fifty-one!) ecis that have been successful.
in writing. ‒ after a debate in the chamber and careful reflection, i voted in favour of the report on the european citizens' initiative. the analysis of the supporting documentation and the report shows that priority should be given to emphasising different aspects: balancing the responsibility for the retention and storage of personal data; streamlining the procedure; harmonising requirements across member states; the commission has not yet taken a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the common market. in any case, it is clear that much remains to be done to ensure that the ice reaches its full potential, given the excessive requirements and difficulties of the procedure. in any case, the use of the programme to train young people in european consciousness must be emphasized, also in order to counteract anti-europeanism more effectively. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative is the first direct democracy instrument conceived at eu level. as i argued in my speech in plenary, however, the mechanism that the rule currently has many shortcomings (including delays and bureaucratic impediments in the first place, but also lack of information and support, differences between the rules for data collection in the member states). the report by my colleague addresses many of the most important points, outlines a clear improvement in the functioning of the instrument and also raises the question of the potential conflict of interest of the commission; i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the european citizens' initiative (eci) is a new political right, as well as a unique and innovative tool for setting the agenda for participatory democracy in the european union, whose potential must undoubtedly be fully exploited and significantly enhanced in order to achieve the best results and to encourage as many union citizens as possible to participate in the further development of the european integration process. i also stress that there are shortcomings which should be addressed and resolved in order to make the ice more effective. i remain firmly convinced that the use of one's mother tongue is a civil right and i invite the commission and the member states to examine the options, in order to offer the possibility of using it in all activities connected with the ice. finally, civic engagement among young people is crucial for the future of all democracies and i encourage the commission to draw lessons from the successful national experiences of ice: the children represent our future and this theme cannot be neglected, but rather expanded to the best.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative (eci) aims to mobilise civil society by involving it in the launch of relevant legislative initiatives and by offering the opportunity to play an active role in the european political agenda. although the eic is a valuable instrument of participatory democracy, its use presents numerous obstacles, as the system is overly complex and the requirements for submitting an initiative are disproportionate and unclear. as a result, it is very difficult for an initiative to be followed up by a european legislative act and this failure is one of the causes of the loss of confidence of citizens in the european institutions. i agree that changes should be made to facilitate the use of this tool, for example by strengthening the systems for electronic signature collection, simplifying the procedures for completing and submitting online forms, and finally by encouraging interinstitutional cooperation at all levels.
in writing. ‒ the report introduces a proposal for a revision of regulation 211/2011 which governs the european citizens' initiative. this is the main instrument of direct democracy introduced by the treaty of lisbon. the commission's report at the end of the first three years of the mechanism's existence and several civil society bodies have highlighted significant shortcomings in the design of the instrument, so it is very likely that the commission itself will launch a review of the eci in 2016. the aim of the parliament's report is therefore to provide useful input for the eci to become a really useful and effective instrument. the text of the report is very good and the work in committee has been marked by collaboration and inclusion. the main improvements in the report are: the call for more detailed information on the existence and rules for the use of the instrument; the request for the use of europe direct (or dedicated offices) to provide support and guidance to promoters, in particular with regard to guidelines and guidance for identifying the legal basis. as a result of the above, i voted in favour.
in writing. a proposal for a revision of regulation 211/2011 is introduced by this report which defines the eci, the european citizens' initiative. the eic is the only real instrument of direct democracy introduced by the treaty of lisbon; the commission's proposal is to draw up a legislative proposal which, if supported by one million signatures, can become a commission legislative initiative. the various problems of the eci have become apparent over the years, so much so that the number of initiatives has seen a steady decline in comparison to the only three successful initiatives (stop vivisection, right2water and one of us) which received, unfortunately, an absolutely unacceptable response from the commission - just think that some promoters of ecis have sued the commission in the european court of justice for the disappointing answers provided. but let us not despair, because parliament's report is aimed at helping to revise the eci so that it can become what it is not now: an effective instrument of direct democracy. we therefore propose in this report a reform of the eci which aims to remove obstacles, whether they are technical/bureaucratic or political. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ europe often tends to close itself in palaces. this shows a certain disregard for the instruments of democratic debate and debate on the fundamental issues of its citizens. the european union has one tool, the european citizens' initiative (eci), but it has proved to be costly, bureaucratic and frustrating for both the promoters and the signatories. the european parliament resolution on the european citizens' initiative (eci) aims to call for a revision of regulation 211/2011, which regulates the main instrument of direct democracy introduced by the lisbon treaty. the ice must become a really useful and effective instrument. this would require simplifying bureaucratic procedures, eliminating any possible conflict of interest for the commission, which not only legally checks the eligibility of ecis but also decides whether to follow them up or not, and finally standardizing the system for collecting signatures in the various member states. in the end, however, this is a small step forward in strengthening the instrument of direct participation of citizens in the process of forming laws, which we cannot but appreciate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr schöpflin's report on the european citizens' initiative because i consider the eci to be the first real instrument of participatory democracy, which allows our citizens to take political initiative and to get closer to europe and its institutions. the decline in the number of ecis submitted in recent years should make us reflect on the actions needed to revive this institution, which must be better communicated to the citizens and considerably simplified. i therefore share the commission's call to promote as much as possible, at eu and national level, awareness of this right and to simplify the procedures for collecting signatures so as not to hinder its exercise, with common requirements in the various member states and greater assistance from the commission to promoters. given the importance of youth participation in european democracy, i agree with the lowering of the age of participation in an eci to 16 and i share the call for improvement of the software used by the commission to collect signatures. finally, i believe that it is essential for the future of this instrument that, if it is successful, the ice be followed up by a legal act, and i therefore support the commission's proposal for a 12-month time limit for action.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the european parliament. the european citizens' initiative (eci) is a measure which allows one million european citizens, residing in at least one quarter of the member states, to exercise a genuine right of initiative and thus to invite the european commission to submit a proposal for a legal act. the aim of this report is to improve the functioning of the eci, to simplify its use and to remove some of the obstacles which have proved difficult for eci organisers.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative eci is a new political right of citizens, allowing them to play an active role in projects that affect them, thus ensuring the opportunity for citizens to participate in the launch of legislative initiatives. the aim of the report is to encourage more european union citizens to participate further in the development of the european integration process.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative (eci) is a tool to increase the opportunities for european citizens to participate in the launch of legislative initiatives. this instrument aims to strengthen european citizenship and at the same time provides a strong impetus for civil mobilisation. in view of the political and social importance of the ice, i think it is important to support mr schöpflin's position. the report is based on the assumption that in order to strengthen these instruments of cooperation, the first thing to do is to improve the functioning of the ice, simplify its use and remove some of the obstacles which may be hindering the tasks of the organisers.
in writing. ‒ reaffirming my conviction that european citizens should have greater access to the activities of the union and greater transparency in the institutions, i have decided to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the european citizens' initiative.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative (eci) allows europeans to play an active role in the decision-making processes that affect them. one million european citizens, residing in at least one quarter of the union's member states, can invite the commission to submit a legislative proposal they consider necessary to implement the treaties of the european union. the eic thus confers on citizens of the union a right of initiative similar to that exercised by the european parliament and the council. this is an exceptional opportunity which must be encouraged and supported. however, since the entry into force of regulation (eu) no 211/2001 in april 2012, several practical difficulties have been reported. only 3 of the 31 registered ecis reached the final stage. i voted in favour of this report in order to improve the operation of the ice, to simplify its procedure and to remove some of the obstacles which have proved to be the most difficult for the ice organisers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i consider the european citizens' initiative to be an important instrument of direct democracy, and i believe that it is of fundamental importance to promote and guarantee citizens' access to european policies. one of the objectives of the european union must be to restore trust between citizens and political institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the report focuses precisely on the shortcomings of the eci, firstly by highlighting the almost nil follow-up given so far by the commission to the only three successful ecis.
in writing. the european citizens' initiative (eci) is a tool to give european citizens the opportunity to participate in the launching of legislative initiatives, in order to increase the mobilisation of civil society and to strengthen european citizenship, especially at transnational level. the report voted on today seeks not only to improve the functioning of the ice but also to identify the critical points in the system itself, since 51 requests to launch an initiative have been submitted to date, but only three have been declared admissible. that is why i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ in order to give european citizens a tool to put their ideas to the european institutions, the treaty of lisbon introduced the european citizens' initiative (eci), which gives citizens the right to request eu action on a specific issue, if one million signatures are collected. however, only three ecis have so far met all the requirements for consideration by the european commission, but no initiative has become a legislative proposal, while registrations of new proposals are declining. to ensure that this instrument of citizen participation in the european decision-making process does not lose its relevance and utility to public opinion, parliament adopted a resolution containing a number of proposals on how to improve the process with a view to improving the ice's rules. as the s&d group we have in particular achieved a uniform procedure in the member states, greater flexibility in the time needed to collect signatures, better accessibility for disabled people and young people from the age of 16, the possibility of signing in the country of current residence. for these reasons i voted in favour of the text adopted today.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this own-initiative report because i believe that the eci represents one of the major innovations in terms of participatory democracy introduced in the treaties. this tool gives citizens a unique opportunity to identify and define the union's legislative priorities and to actively participate in the definition of new objectives. as stated in the report, citizens, especially young people, need to be made aware of the use of this participatory tool. the commission and the national authorities must use all public communication channels and take the necessary measures to ensure transparency and to encourage comprehensive responses that allow european citizens to have a leading role in the legislative initiative process. in order to promote this type of initiative, technology plays a key role and the commission must therefore improve the collection of signatures by electronic means.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european citizens' initiative (eci) report because i see it as a tool for guaranteeing and democratic participation, allowing european citizens to participate more actively in the legislative initiative. the basic idea was to develop an instrument which, once in place, could increase the mobilisation of civil society and strengthen european citizenship, especially at transnational level. the ice is a relatively young instrument (it has been in existence for three years) and, like all instruments, it needs to be perfected, improved and tested. the aim is to implement the operation of the eci by simplifying procedures and removing obstacles which create difficulties for eci organisers. at a time when europe is being accused of serious democratic shortcomings, support for an instrument that encourages initiative from below becomes essential.
in writing. ‒ the report on an eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region focuses on the opportunities of the maritime economy, thus covering all aspects related to it. it calls for the high potential of renewable energy sources to be recognised, calls for all available sources to be exploited, and highlights the risks associated with offshore and onshore oil and gas exploration and exploitation. the commission also calls for the capacity of the existing infrastructure network to be optimized, with particular reference to the road and rail links in the macro-region, and for a genuine inter-modality of transport, airports, railways and motorways to be developed, which will undoubtedly bring benefits to italy, which does not shine in these respects. but there are also criticisms, because the european fund for strategic investments is to be used and in italy it is unfortunately a double-edged sword, because among the projects submitted to the efsi is the restructuring of the ilva in taranto. the report also stresses the importance of joint planning of investments in the development of liquefied natural gas (lng) terminals and pipelines. a great opportunity ruined by the usual economic interests, which is why i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of macro-regional strategies, as they can ensure effective regional and transnational development in europe. the adriatic-ionian region will benefit from growth in transport, the maritime economy and environmental protection, which together will benefit tourism. my vote is in favour.
in writing. ‒ more than ten years have passed since the birth of the adriatic region, which brought together 26 regions of this area. the italian presidency extended this project by launching in 2014 the european strategy for the adriatic and ionian region (eusair) involving four member states (croatia, greece, italy and slovenia), three candidate countries (albania, montenegro, serbia), and one potential candidate (bosnia and herzegovina). the report, which i support, highlights the four pillars on which eusair insists: the commission will continue to support the development of the maritime sector through the following measures: innovative growth in the maritime sector (blue growth), strengthening infrastructure and connectivity (connecting the region), better protection of the environment through increased cooperation (environmental quality) and development of the tourism potential of the region (sustainable tourism). the plan aims to realise the opportunities of the region's maritime economy through improved energy connectivity, but also to stimulate research and innovation for the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises by improving european connections, such as the baltic-adriatic and scandinavian-mediterranean corridors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region and the related action plan represent an essential stage in the development of this region, which is of no small strategic importance, especially in the event of a future enlargement of the union to include the balkan peninsula.
in writing. ‒ in the pech committee we formulated an opinion, which i was rapporteur for the s&d group, on this macro-regional strategy which is of great interest to many of the european countries bordering the mediterranean. this parliament last month adopted an own-initiative report on research and innovation in the blue economy to create jobs and growth. i am pleased that this report defends the blue economy as a solution to the economic crisis, as a driver of new jobs and economic development, with particular regard to women and young people. i believe that the strategy should be an opportunity to intensify the exchange of good practice, such as the projects developed by coastal action groups, which are often a virtuous example of sustainability. finally, i would like to point out that the mediterranean is a closed sea, characterized by a high rate of depletion of fish stocks, also as a result of excessive and not always legal fishing practices. at the same time, fisheries are a key economic activity in the coastal and island areas bordering the macro-region. i also draw attention to the urgency of action to align third countries' fisheries legislation with eu legislation, with data sharing, monitoring platforms and common fisheries management plans. finally, why not consider the mediterranean as a macro-region?
in writing. ‒ having regard to: that macro-regional strategies can be considered as a tool for european integration and greater territorial cohesion, based on voluntary cooperation between member states and neighbouring countries to address common challenges; eusair (eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region) is a new form of regional cooperation that can assist the participating candidate and potential candidate countries on their path to the eu, and constitutes an important component of the broader eu mediterranean policy, expressed in the framework of the union for the mediterranean; that eusair, as part of the eu's regional policy, is an instrument dedicated to promoting economic and social cohesion, with the main objectives of reducing disparities between regions, promoting real convergence and encouraging growth and employment; i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in june 2014, the european commission launched a new eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region, focusing on the so-called 'blue economy'. this is the first eu macro-regional strategy to involve such a high proportion of non-eu countries. the report deals with many important points, but there are two particularly critical paragraphs. one encourages the full use of the possibilities offered by the new european fund for strategic investments (efsi) to finance projects in the region. the commission has also received comments from the italian authorities. the second point stresses the importance of joint planning of investments in the development of liquefied natural gas (lng) terminals and the missing pipeline networks in the macro-region. the implied reference is to the trans-adriatic pipeline (tap). i have voted against the motion for a resolution because of these last critical elements.
in writing. ‒ the european strategy for the adriatic and ionian macro-region is the first to involve such a large number of non-eu countries (albania, bosnia and herzegovina, montenegro and serbia). the cooperation to be carried out with the collaboration of four eu member states (croatia, greece, italy and slovenia) will help align the policies of the neighbouring countries with those of the european union in order to tackle together common challenges (such as maritime or environmental challenges) that transcend national borders and that necessarily require the contribution and commitment of several countries. concentrating on a limited number of objectives (blue growth, connecting the region, environment and sustainable tourism) paves the way for the launch of concrete projects to find solutions to problems that affect more territories and will certainly open up development opportunities. as the resolution shows, the potential for economic growth for all eu and non-eu countries involved in the strategy is significant, but the important political relevance of the strategy should not be overlooked as it will contribute to the stabilisation of the western balkans area, which has been the scene of conflicts and wars in the recent past. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region. the countries of the adriatic and ionian region have been particularly affected by the economic crisis, with rising unemployment and indebtedness, and have experienced a sharp decline in both public and private investment. the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region represents a major opportunity as it allows for the targeting of investments, which have been particularly lacking in recent years, towards specific sectors and allows some countries in the region, candidates for eu membership (albania, montenegro, serbia) or potential candidates (bosnia and herzegovina), to move closer to the european union by aligning their policies and working closely with eu member states. the strategy is based on four pillars: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment and to promote sustainable and competitive tourism. the main priorities identified in the strategy are: the development of the fisheries and aquaculture sector, the improvement of links with the european corridors, the protection of the marine environment and the biodiversity of the ecosystem, the diversification of the tourist offer and sustainable tourism management, the integration of the western balkans into the eu and the coherence between the eu macro-regional strategies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the eusair strategy offers the countries of the region an exceptional opportunity to turn the page on the economic and political problems of the past and work together, under the guidance of the commission, to pursue prosperity and sustainable development. i also fully agree with the rapporteur on the pillars adopted for the new strategy: blue growth (maritime fisheries, aquaculture, blue technologies, maritime and marine governance and services), regional connectivity (maritime transport, intermodal links with inland waterways, energy networks), environmental quality (marine environment, transnational terrestrial habitats and biodiversity) and sustainable and competitive tourism (diversified tourism offer, sustainable and responsible tourism management). finally, the overall objective of the programme is to act as a driver for policy and governance innovation, fostering european integration between eu member states and non-eu member states, using the rich natural, cultural and human resources of the adriatic and ionian and strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion in the programme area - a perfect strategy, in my view, for the european goals of cohesion and union. of course, for territorial reasons i am more interested in the alpine macro-region (eusalp), but i welcome these attempts to agglomerate the regions to make policies more efficient.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this important own-initiative report of the european parliament which aims to analyse the problem of the eu strategy for the 'ionian adriatic region'. this initiative was launched in 2000 and established in 2006 and includes regional and local authorities in eight countries (croatia, greece, italy, slovenia, albania, montenegro, serbia and bosnia and herzegovina), with 70 million people. the adriatic-ionian region and the adriatic-ionian cooperation programme 2014-2020 represent a great opportunity to foster integration and act as a driver for the better use of natural, cultural and human resources, strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion. the juncker commission has stated that there will be no further enlargement for the time being. the role of the adriatic ionian region is therefore all the more important in preparing the basis and the best conditions for bringing the countries of the western balkans ever closer to those of europe.
in writing. ‒ in june 2014, the european commission launched a new eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region. the strategy focuses on the opportunities of the maritime economy: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states. these sectors are expected to play a crucial role in job creation and economic recovery in the region. this is the first eu macro-regional strategy to involve such a high proportion of non-eu countries (albania, bosnia and herzegovina, montenegro and serbia) in cooperation with eu member states (croatia, greece, italy and slovenia). however, two paragraphs (10 and 64) contain important criticisms. the first encourages the commission, the eib and the participating countries to make full use of the possibilities offered by the efsi to finance projects in the region. the second stresses the importance of joint planning of investments in the development of liquefied natural gas (lng) terminals and missing pipeline networks in the macro-region, in order to contribute to achieving greater energy independence and security. i have decided to abstain on these grounds.
in writing. ‒ the adriatic-ionian macro-region strategy covers eight countries equally represented by eu member states (greece, italy and slovenia) and non-eu countries (albania, montenegro, serbia, bosnia and herzegovina). the region is home to more than 70 million people and plays a key role in strengthening europe's geographical continuity. the italian government played a key role in promoting the strategy, which was adopted during our semester. it is structured around four interdependent pillars of strategic importance, all equally relevant to the objectives of sustainable growth: blue growth, connecting the region (transport and energy networks), environmental quality and sustainable tourism. the connecting the region pillar was the one that created the most conflict. in the committee, we included the completion of the baltic-adriatic corridor among the objectives in the final compromise text. we have succeeded in getting our amendment through the plenary to add a specific mention to its completion 'along the whole adriatic-ionian backbone'. this is an important and in many ways unexpected result. it is now up to governments to turn our initiative into action, giving substance to a strategy which we believe has important potential that is still largely untapped.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region (eusair), in which italy played a key role during the six-month eu presidency, is an important milestone for the development of the countries in the region. over 70 million citizens living in the adriatic-ionian area will have new opportunities for work, mobility, education and growth through political and administrative coordination, under the guidance of the commission, which will also serve to turn the page on the economic and political problems faced in the past. the four pillars of the strategy relate to the restructuring and expansion of energy and transport infrastructure, with new interconnections with the ten-t corridors; the development of a tourist and cultural offer that will serve to de-seasonalize tourism; sustainable growth through the blue economy to overcome the economic crisis and better protect the marine and coastal environment and, finally, greater cooperation between the countries of the macro-region that will allow for common responses to emergencies such as immigration.
in writing. ‒ i voted strongly in favour of the ep resolution on the implementation of the eu strategy for the adriatic-ionian region (eusair), because the strategy, although still in its embryonic stage, is a tool for promoting development in the adriatic-ionian region, but also the integration of the western balkan countries. the strategy is not new, as it was prepared by the commission in 2012 on a mandate from the european council, and later accompanied by an action plan and finally approved last december, nor does it provide for additional community resources, since it will have to be based solely on those already available and provided for under cohesion policy. nevertheless, at this stage it is a very important instrument to help promote projects at community and national level which are not currently among the priorities of the european and national intervention programmes. the newly created management bodies are beginning to discuss the identification of the first projects which the participating states should make a concrete commitment to finance by mobilising the available resources. for italy, this could mean the extension of the ten corridors along the adriatic ridge and thus the extension of the high speed rail to bari, thus concretely promoting the development of the mezzogiorno.
in writing. ‒ by voting for this resolution, we have helped to mark a new stage in the development of the adriatic and ionian region. macro-regional strategies are an important tool for territorial integration and cooperation; in the case of the eusair, it can also contribute to and assist the participating and potential candidate countries on their path towards the european union and be an important component of the broader eu mediterranean policy, expressed in the framework of the union for the mediterranean. as the whole region is facing major migratory challenges, we have called for the future redefinition of eusair priorities to focus on social and humanitarian issues of concern to the whole region and to foster an exchange of good practices in the area of reception of migrants.
in writing. the new strategy for the adriatic and ionian region (eusair) is part of the wider project of the juncker commission, which has decided to focus on the relaunch of the european economy through the investment plan and the european fund for strategic investments. i would like to point out that the european parliament has approved the amendment concerning the completion of the baltic-adriatic corridor, which will allow the extension of the entire adriatic-ionian corridor from ravenna to the south, linking shipping routes and ports with other parts of europe.
in writing. ‒ in favour of the report on an eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region. the adriatic-ionian cooperation programme 2014-2020 is a programme under the second objective of cohesion policy european territorial cooperation covering four eu member states (croatia, greece, italy and slovenia) and four ipa countries (albania, bosnia and herzegovina, montenegro and serbia). the potential of the adriatic and ionian region is vast and can only be exploited through a joint and coordinated effort by all the countries of the region, with a high level of participation by local and regional authorities. the overall objective of the programme is to act as a driver for policy and governance innovation, encouraging european integration between eu member states and non-eu member states, using all the natural, cultural and human resources of the adriatic and ionian sea, so that economic, social and territorial cohesion in the programme area can be strengthened.
in writing. ‒ the adriatic and ionian region has been characterised by events that have had devastating effects on development and cooperation between countries. these are problems linked to the economic crisis, unemployment and indebtedness, with unprecedentedly high incidence rates. this has led to a sharp fall in investment, both public and private, which is hampering economic recovery. these circumstances explain my support for the rapporteur's proposal, which is based on the eusair strategy presented by the commission at the request of the european council. the eusair strategy aims to exploit the real economic potential of the adriatic region through cooperation between the countries concerned and, therefore, not only local, but also national and international actors.
in writing. ‒ we support this report which aims to underline the strategic importance of promoting the process of integration and enlargement, regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations at european level through the instruments and means of the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region (eusair). we need to give new impetus to strengthening peace, social cohesion, economic development, environmental sustainability and security in south east europe. to this end, greater involvement of all stakeholders, including civil society, is essential. eusair will contribute to the process of accession to the european union of the western balkan countries, providing them with the possibility to cooperate closely with eu member states and to address common challenges at regional level. we therefore invite the western balkan countries to participate fully and effectively in all phases of implementation, improving connectivity with each other and with the rest of the european union, including the adriatic-ionian corridor. finally, we call on the commission to pursue maximum efficiency in the use of all available funding instruments, in order to maximise impact, achieve better results and encourage sustainable economic growth in the region.
in writing. ‒ mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region because i believe that macro-regional strategies, based on cooperation, integration and coordination, are an important tool for achieving tangible results. addressing common challenges together is crucial to overcoming socioeconomic imbalances between neighbouring countries and strengthening territorial cohesion. the strategy could also bring important benefits to the candidate and potential candidate countries in the region. the adriatic and ionian macro-region needs common and careful management because, due to its own peculiar geographical configuration, it is more vulnerable to pollution and overexploitation of fish stocks. the commission communication underlines that this strategy does not require additional rules, institutions or funds which are already provided by the adriatic-ionian transnational cooperation programme 2014-2020 (adrion).
in writing. ‒ i believe it is essential to underline the geostrategic and geopolitical importance of the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region. however, following my personal and proven interest in the matter, i would like to stress the absence in the strategy of any provision for the completion of the baltic-adriatic corridor from ravenna to ancona-pescara-termoli-foggia-bari-brindisi. the full implementation of the strategy, the development of crisis regions such as southern italy and the full exploitation of the potential of the area of the future, so that this vision can finally be realised. i therefore decided to give my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ macro-regional strategies can be seen as a tool dedicated to promoting economic and social cohesion, with the main objectives of reducing disparities between regions, promoting real convergence and encouraging growth and employment. the adoption of an eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region (eusair) is the result of the interest shown by the countries involved. the strategy covers four eu member states (croatia, greece, italy and slovenia) and four ipa countries (albania, bosnia and herzegovina, montenegro and serbia). the overall budget for the period 2014-2020 is eur 118.154.690, including the european regional development fund (erdf) (eur 83.467.729), the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa ii) (eur 15.688.887 million) and the national contributions (eur 18.998.074 million). this is the third eu macro-regional strategy and can therefore benefit from the experience and lessons learned from the european union strategy for the baltic sea region and the european union strategy for the danube region. i voted in favour of this report so that the strategy for the ionian adriatic region can be a great opportunity for development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european union strategy for the adriatic and ionian region as it aims to promote the economic recovery of this region. in order to create new jobs, the eu strategy promotes the development of blue growth, energy networks and transport links, environmental quality and sustainable and competitive tourism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i share the idea that a new form of regional cooperation can bring benefits to the areas concerned.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this report, because the strategy for the adriatic and ionian region can promote development in the adriatic region and foster the integration of the western balkan countries. the experience of existing macro-regional strategies shows that the quality and stability of governance mechanisms are crucial for the effective implementation of all programmes and initiatives. better governance does not depend on new funds, but on the way joint actions are initiated and financed. governance must therefore have both a political and an operational dimension, with the full involvement of the responsible ministries and implementing bodies in defining the strategic objectives and ensuring that the work is carried out efficiently and rigorously. the vote in favour by parliament of this strategy is part of the process of revitalizing a europe of solidarity, ready to overcome differences and difficulties and to allow the development of areas of great cultural and environmental value. but full development is also achieved through an adequate transport infrastructure network, which is why i strongly supported the amendment which will allow the completion of the adriatic-ionian railway and motorway network southwards beyond ravenna.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu strategy for the adriatic-ionian macro-region. the regions concerned face similar challenges, from lack of infrastructure to threats to the environment. these challenges can only be met through cross-border cooperation, identification of best practices and sharing of know-how.
in writing. ‒ a parliament resolution that is finally a milestone in the adriatic-ionian macro-region project. it is a very important territory in our union, because it links east and west and forms a great gateway for all those from africa or the middle east who flee war and suffering and seek safety in europe. it is also important because it includes four states which are not yet members of the european union but which intend to become members and are trying to put years of civil war behind them and open themselves up to policies of mutual development and cooperation with the aim of joining our union. a very important project for the communities that face the sea, which will enhance blue tourism, with the aim of extending the season towards sports tourism aimed at young people but also the elderly. infrastructure is also important: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the water supply in the adriatic, both in terms of maritime infrastructure and energy infrastructure, with a plan for interconnections between the two sides of the adriatic and for the production of energy from renewable sources. it is good that a new fisheries management plan has been drawn up.
in writing. the report focuses on the following sectors of the maritime economy: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states. this is the first eu macro-regional strategy involving non-eu countries such as albania, bosnia and herzegovina, montenegro and serbia, which are called upon to cooperate with eu member states (croatia, greece, italy and slovenia). the report stresses the importance of the 'three no's principle': the commission has already made a number of proposals. although some of our proposals were adopted which would promote the economic development of the area by focusing on its environmental and tourist characteristics rather than on the oil industry, i abstained on the vote because there were still important criticisms, especially in two paragraphs of the text. the commission notes that the capital injections were made in the form of a capital injection of eur [...] million. the other involves joint planning of investments for the development of liquefied natural gas (lng) terminals and gas pipeline networks (trans-adriatic pipeline, tap) which may have serious environmental consequences.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is directly linked to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the report by fernanda ruas is the first report by the european parliament on the mid-term review of the strategy, with a particular focus on cohesion policy. the european commission is currently engaged in the review of the interim strategy. the commission is encouraged to pursue a dialogue that gives greater priority to territorial cooperation at different levels, including with a view to identifying indicators that better reflect the progress made towards achieving the objectives of the strategy in the framework of the reference programming. the call is for greater involvement of regional and local authorities and civil society to ensure that public investment is better targeted to the real needs of the territories. in addition to the interesting insights it provides, the report touches not least on the delicate issue of an expansion of the economic governance process. however, the main challenge is to deal with the relationship between cohesion policy and the new european fund for strategic investments (efsi - the juncker plan). i have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ although this own-initiative report contains references that are too 'euro-enthusiastic', i believe that it is balanced and focuses on concepts that i have always considered fundamental, such as investments more targeted towards supporting our citizens, the revision of the 2020 strategy, the importance of macro-regional policies and the fact that account must always be taken of the different territorial specificities, for all these reasons i supported it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on cohesion policy and the revision of the europe 2020 strategy because i believe that cohesion policy and europe 2020 can be two extremely important tools for the relaunch of our continent's economy, and that they have not been properly exploited. i therefore believe that they should be revised to ensure that they are more effective and have an even greater impact on the economies of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the european union's cohesion policy represents a large part of the eu budget (about one third) and is the main community investment. smart, sustainable and inclusive growth as outlined in the europe 2020 strategy is the driving force for cohesion policy and must continue to be so. the european parliament can only ask for a multi-level and truly territorial governance of investment funds. the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy must be identified, evaluated and then monitored in a mixed (bottom-up and bottom-up) approach, tailoring them to each region, taking into account the territorial and socio-economic specificities of the different regions of europe. it is essential, in order to avoid indirect territorial discrimination, to adapt the regional objectives for each area covered by cohesion policy, with particular attention to technical support and to the quantitative analysis and evaluation of the projects financed. promoting a sense of belonging and ownership of the europe 2020 strategy by local and regional authorities, member states and stakeholders, thereby increasing the visibility, relevance and effectiveness of the strategy in its territorial application.
in writing. - i vote for it. this own-initiative resolution merely sets out the relationship between cohesion policy (a third of the eu budget) and the eu 2020 strategy. despite the presence of excessively 'euro-enthusiastic' references, the report is balanced and often highlights many concepts that are dear to me: more targeted investment, appropriate revision of the 2020 strategy, act at macro-regional level, take into account the different territorial specificities.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on cohesion policy in relation to the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth set out in the europe 2020 strategy. the commission is working on a mid-term review of the strategy which is likely to be presented at the end of 2015. the report contains interesting elements, especially with regard to analytical indicators and a different dialectic between territorial levels. the report also stresses the problem of negotiating timing, which would require an early definition of the programming. critical points in the report concern the reference to linking cohesion policy and the 2020 strategy to a broader process of economic governance, through measures linking the effectiveness of esi funds to good economic governance; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. there are also multiple references to coordination and synergy between cohesion policy and the efsi. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution under consideration. cohesion policy is one of the key instruments for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. it continues to make a positive and substantial contribution to achieving the europe 2020 strategy objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the proposal identifies four priorities: (a) implement greater synergies between cohesion policy and the europe 2020 strategy with the specific aim of increasing the quantity, quality and impact of investment in research and innovation through a coordinated use of cohesion policy instruments; (b) to create a greater interconnection between the european fund for strategic investments and the structural funds for european investment; (c) adopt strengthened multi-level governance so that local, regional and other civil society actors are better involved in the europe 2020 strategy; and (d) improve the territorial approach of the europe 2020 strategy so that the direct effects of this policy are greater and more felt at local level. finally, it is explicitly requested that the ep be involved in a timely manner in all major discussions on the planning, implementation and evaluation of the strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because cohesion policy is the eu's main method of investment, growth and development, in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, which aims to reduce regional disparities and promote convergence. i also want all the energies and capacities to be mobilised and directed towards pursuing the europe 2020 strategy objectives of sustainable growth and jobs. the objectives of cohesion policy have evolved over time to support investment in support of the eu's main priorities, demonstrating their adaptability and effectiveness, while maintaining the central objective of reducing disparities between the levels of development of the various regions, strengthening regional potential and promoting sustainable development. the revision of the europe 2020 strategy should, however, take into account the severe and unequal effects of the economic and financial crisis on member states and regions. finally, i would like to emphasise the need for a truly territorial approach to the europe 2020 strategy in order to adapt public interventions and investments to the different specific characteristics and needs of the territories. i think it is really important to link the global approach of the europe 2020 strategy and the territorial approach of the territorial agenda 2020.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy accounts for over a third of the eu budget and is the main investment, growth and development policy, in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. it aims to reduce regional disparities and promote convergence. i therefore fully support what mr ruas has proposed, namely that in view of the importance of this instrument: increase the quality, quantity and impact of r&i investment; to encourage the interconnection and coordination of the esi funds with other union instruments and policies; strengthen multi-level governance, taking into account the appropriate specificities and differences between different regions.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is closely aligned with the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. the 2014-2020 iff is linked to the europe 2020 strategy. the ruas report on the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy, based on a cohesion policy of that strategy, calls on the commission and the member states to commit to greater cooperation in developing inclusive indicators to integrate gdp, so as to have greater traceability of progress made, enhance the dimensions of accountability, ownership and transparency including through the involvement of local authorities, civil society and all stakeholders. the report also stresses the need for a territorial approach, the problem of negotiating timing. i look forward to new opportunities for debate which may lead to greater clarity on the link between measures which restrict the effectiveness of the esi funds and good economic governance.
in writing. ‒ the report adopted is part of the debate on the future of cohesion policy. it has become the key instrument for implementing the europe 2020 strategy. moreover, as a result of the economic crisis, esi funds have become the only source of public funding in many states and regions. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. in this sense, in order to recover some of the functionality of the funds, it was important to emphasise that one of the problems is the real implementation of multi-level governance and a bottom-up approach. the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy need to be redefined tailor-made for each region, to better adapt to the reality of a variety of areas with different needs. in addition, there remains a need for a strategic political discussion on the future of cohesion policy, bearing in mind that the new legislative package will arrive between 2018-2019 and the european parliament elections will be in 2019. the two revisions will have to be aligned, also with the new multiannual financial framework. only by putting all the strategies in place at the same time can the union's objectives be best achieved.
in writing. although the europe 2020 strategy has undeniably experienced a number of setbacks compared to the action diary it had set out, i hope that a mid-term review of its plans could prove a useful tool for designing future lines, capable of giving fresh life and perspective to the initial vision. i therefore particularly agree with the analysis of the success and acceleration that could be provided by a multi-level restructuring of the governance of the strategy, thanks to a higher involvement of local, regional and civil society actors, allowing the objectives to be 'tailored' according to the target territories, in order to achieve results appropriate to their specificity, deploring the possible risk of asymmetrical results resulting from fragmented and indistinct objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's own-initiative report on cohesion policy and the review of the eu 2020 strategy because i think it is very important that the ep informs the ec in time of its position on the mid-term review of the eu 2020 strategy, due by the end of 2015. cohesion policy and the eu 2020 strategy are closely linked, with cohesion policy closely aligned with the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth underpinning the eu 2020 strategy, through the 11 thematic objectives of the common regulatory provisions. cohesion policy through its funds is the key instrument for meeting the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, but despite the continuing economic and social crisis, cohesion policy funds have proved to be the only source of funding in many member states and regions. the link between the cohesion funds (esi) and the efsi, and the effective complementarity and additionality between the two sources of investment in the coming years, is therefore more urgent than ever, in order to emerge from the crisis and promote sustainable growth and quality employment. i therefore welcome the fact that the review takes account of the specificities of the regions and that it uses appropriate targets.
in writing. europe 2020 is a long-term strategy built around five objectives: employment, innovation, climate change and energy sustainability. cohesion policy is the eu's main instrument for investment in the real economy, extended to all regions, and is the very expression of european solidarity. governance for the europe 2020 strategy needs to be strengthened through the use of multi-level governance, involving local and regional authorities, as well as other civil society actors and stakeholders. on this basis i have decided to support the ruas report, as giving more ownership to these actors will certainly help to achieve the objectives set.
in writing. ‒ supports the report on the mid-term review of the 2020 strategy on cohesion policy. cohesion policy is the eu's main investment, growth and development policy, as it aims to reduce regional disparities and promote convergence, having become the only financial resource for growth policy in some member states or regions. it is important to increase the quantity, quality and impact of investments through the coordinated use of the instruments of cohesion policy and horizon 2020. actions not planned in advance could cause further delays in the implementation of the new post-2020 cohesion policy and the long-term strategy of the european union that will replace europe 2020.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy aims to deliver smart, inclusive and sustainable growth and is one of the key pillars for achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. it is a policy aimed at implementing integrated development through a mixed approach based on different levels of governance. the report by mr ruas, to which i am voting in favour, stresses the importance of finding the right methodologies for implementing this integrated development policy for 2020. the strategies include, for example, the coordination of the esi and the efsi funds. it is emphasised that efsi funding should be complementary and complementary to the esi funds in order to create tangible added value, bearing in mind that while the efsi funds are oriented towards specific themes, cohesion policy must remain a horizontal and comprehensive eu investment policy.
in writing. ‒ given the tight time constraints and the slowdowns in the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, i strongly support the proposal for enhanced multi-level governance of the strategy, through the involvement of local and regional authorities, civil society and other stakeholders, in order to ensure its full and effective implementation. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy, the eu's main investment, growth and development policy with a budget of eur 351.8 billion until the end of 2020, aims to ensure that all energies are mobilised and directed towards the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, with particular regard to smart growth and jobs. europe is going through a period of great change following the crisis that erupted in 2008. the commission therefore considered it necessary to propose a mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy, addressing the challenge of coordinating the strategic instruments, including the efsi, in order to use all available resources more effectively and thus achieve the expected results with regard to the overall strategic objectives. i am in favour of this revision and that is why i have decided to vote in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i support the european union's objective of implementing a strong and compact cohesion policy between the member states, aimed at overcoming economic, social and territorial imbalances. cohesion policy is not only the european union's main investment instrument, but also an essential element in the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. the european union must pursue the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the report is overall balanced and rightly calls for more targeted investment, a review of strategy 2020, actions at macro-regional level and taking into account the different territorial specificities.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy accounts for over one third of the eu budget and is the main investment instrument. it aims to reduce regional disparities and promote convergence and has a budget of eur 351.8 billion until the end of 2020. it is closely aligned with the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth set out in the europe 2020 strategy. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report because i believe that the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy offers an opportunity both to assess and recognise the contribution made by cohesion policy and to ensure better complementarity and more effective synergies between eu investment instruments. i hope, however, that future proposals will also take account of the serious and unequal effects of the economic and financial crisis on the member states and that they will promote the definition of tailor-made objectives for each region in order to adapt the interventions to the characteristics of each territory.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report analysing the dimension of cohesion policy in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, which is the first text of the european parliament on the mid-term review of this strategy. as the current cohesion policy is fully aligned with europe 2020 and contributes to the achievement of its smart, sustainable and inclusive development goals, it is very important to take stock of the progress already made and the challenges ahead from the perspective of cohesion policy. the latter is in fact an essential element for the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives, all the more so in recent years when, due to the ongoing economic and financial crisis, cohesion policy funds have often become the only source of public funding available in many regions and member states. better synergies between the 'traditional' cohesion funds and the juncker plan fund are now needed to re-energize investment at local level. the report also highlights the importance of strengthening multi-level governance for the implementation of the strategy, involving all stakeholders, and the need for a territorial approach to define europe 2020 targets tailored to each region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i consider cohesion policy to be a very important investment resource as well as a tool for pursuing smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. in recent years, due to the economic crisis in europe, esi funding has been the only public funding instrument for many states and regions. the recent economic difficulties have shown the strategic importance of this instrument and the need to ensure that all the resources necessary for its maintenance are available.
in writing. ‒ given the poor results in implementing the country-specific recommendations for cohesion policy, i welcome the full revision of the concept of cohesion policy and the related policies in place. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ as is well known, the european structural and investment funds have the important objective of supporting the economic development of all eu member states by addressing the strategic investment gap that the private market cannot cover. the need to coordinate and work in synergy with other european policies requires that these funds be accompanied by sound economic management. i support this report which calls on the commission to make limited, exceptional and responsible use of article 23 of the common provisions regulation (cpr), which deals with the so-called macroeconomic conditionality and provides, where necessary, for macroeconomic adjustment, reprogramming or, in the last resort, suspension of the european structural and investment funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that, given the long-term and multiannual nature of the esi funds' programmes and objectives, it would be more useful to dissociate them from the various mechanisms designed to ensure sound economic governance at both european and national level, which have a much shorter time horizon, usually one year. this would make it easier to allocate resources and would lead to an improvement in the investment situation on the european continent, especially in the areas most affected by the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ article 23 of the cpr needs to be revised because of the risky practical consequences of the rescheduling and suspension of esi funds. the original objectives of the european union's cohesion policy, concerning development and adjustment of growth in the different areas of the union, have made it one of the main instruments in maintaining territorial investment in times of crisis and socio-economic instability. the importance of pursuing territorial, social and economic cohesion cannot be put on the back burner in the name of abstract efficiency of governance. local and regional authorities cannot be penalized by a suspension of the funds which would lead to a rapid deterioration in the social and economic situation of the affected territories where other levels of administration with adequate resources available cannot act quickly. the union's intervention must always be based on solidarity and sustainability, and be careful to provide responses that are proportionate to real needs and to prevent regions that are already disadvantaged or affected by the economic crisis from paying the highest price for changes in european economic planning. reprogramming must therefore be limited to the minimum necessary and must not be independent of the socioeconomic situation of the territory concerned, with transparency and objectivity of the procedure and respect for the original objectives of eu cohesion policy.
in writing. - i abstained. the inclusion of the macroeconomic framework in the definition of cohesion policy is a positive step, and should not be understood as respecting the parameters of austerity. in general, considering that the results achieved by the member states in implementing the csfs (country-specific recommendations) are poor, as demonstrated by the commission's assessments of the progress made in implementing the 279 csfs issued in 2012 and 2013, i do not advocate a more general and comprehensive review of all cohesion policies.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the european structural and investment funds and sound economic governance, which contains guidelines for the implementation of article 23 of the common provisions regulation. the report stresses that parliament is in favour of the abolition of macroeconomic conditionality provisions in their entirety, which puts greater pressure on member states already in financial difficulties. moreover, macroeconomic conditionality and its application should not jeopardise or threaten the achievement of the fundamental principles of cohesion policy, such as economic, social and territorial cohesion. however, due to the resistance of the commission and the council, the principle of macroeconomic conditionality was once again inserted in the common provisions regulation (cpr). with this own-initiative report we cannot delete or amend the provisions of article 23 of the crp as they appear in the regulation. however, the report can ensure that they are applied in the most justified and balanced way possible.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the scope of the regulation concerning the mechanism of economic cross-compliance; this is the possibility for the commission to request a member state to review and propose to amend its partnership agreement and relevant programmes, where necessary to implement council recommendations or to maximise the impact on growth and competitiveness of the european structural and investment funds (esi funds) in member states receiving financial assistance. the report could have expressed a clear and unequivocal opposition to the mechanism itself, but instead it confines itself to a series of weak recommendations. an amendment which we tabled calling for the use of cofinancing resources to be deducted from the budget deficit to ensure budgetary parity was also rejected. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the guidelines published by the european commission on the implementation of macroeconomic conditionality raise many concerns and reignite the political debate that had led to the adoption of the esi funds' regulations (for the 2014-2020 programming period) subject to compliance with economic governance procedures. the commission's power to require member states with macroeconomic imbalances to reprogram part of the funding and (as provided for in article 23 of the common provisions regulation) to suspend payments could, if implemented, severely impair the effectiveness of the union's cohesion policy and affect the economic development of regions, for many of which the structural funds are the only source of public funding. i believe that the question of the possibility of excluding from the calculation of public deficits investments cofinanced by the esi funds should be reopened in the appropriate places. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. in view of the effects on the territories of the provisions of article 23, i join parliament's call on the commission to involve parliament, including in an advisory capacity, in the reprogramming and possible suspension of funds processes to ensure the correct application of the macroeconomic conditionality clause.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i agree with the vast majority of my colleagues on the concerns about the practical consequences of the reprogramming and suspension of the esi funds under article 23 of the crp: the right balance should be sought between the different views of the mechanism of macroeconomic conditionality. i am also convinced that parliament's participation should be formalised as the main democratic guarantor of the correct application of the provisions - in line with article 23 - and that it should be given the right to be consulted at all stages with regard to the adoption of requests for reprogramming or any proposals and decisions on the suspension of commitments or payments. i stress the need for constant, clear and transparent cooperation at interinstitutional level. finally, we cannot allow regional or local authorities to be penalized by reprogramming or suspending the funds, with the result that their economic and social situation deteriorates. i am convinced that these changes will ensure a proportionate response to avoid further disadvantage to regions already in difficulty.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy has so far fulfilled the fundamental task of promoting employment and improving socioeconomic situations within the member states, and has also stimulated investment in line with the achievement of the union's macroeconomic objectives. however, many questions remain about article 23 of the common provisions regulation, which would provide for the reprogramming and suspension of the esi funds. i agree with the rapporteur that frequent reprogramming would be counterproductive and should be avoided in order not to disrupt the management of the fund or to undermine the stability and predictability of the multiannual investment strategy. therefore, the application of article 23 should only take place in exceptional situations to allow for the achievement of a sustainable and effective cohesion policy and under the supervision of the european parliament, as the main democratic guarantor of the correct application of the macroeconomic conditionality provisions of the cpr.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses the scope of article 23 of regulation 1303/2013 concerning the macroeconomic conditionality mechanism, i.e. the possibility for the commission to ask a member state to review and propose to amend its partnership agreement and relevant programmes, where necessary to support the implementation of relevant council recommendations or to maximise the impact on growth and competitiveness of esi funds in the member states receiving financial assistance. the argument was already widely criticised during the negotiation of the regulation in 2012-2013, as the economic policy of a member state could thus have a negative impact on the implementation of individual regional and national operational programmes. following the weak report of the rapporteur, who preferred to limit himself to a series of rather weak recommendations, without in the least questioning the link between cohesion policy and sound economic governance, and following the rejection of an amendment on the revision of the investment clause, i decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ i am sorry to say that i voted against the report because i thought, and i do, that it was a good opportunity to raise the issue of a golden rule for investments made as part of the co-financing of the structural funds. we have lost a great opportunity to give substance to the words which we too often repeat rashly and without fully understanding their meaning. we as a parliament have been against macroeconomic conditionality from the outset. after a long battle, we have been forced to accept this rule, at the behest of the commission and the council. we, the socialists and democrats in particular, remain convinced that the stability and growth pact, as it stands, is detrimental to a real investment policy and we therefore call for its revision, in particular to exclude resources from the co-financing of the esi funds. we have unfortunately lost, but this is certainly not the end of the battle to enable the states and regions to make the best use of the funds, free from the rigidities of an austerity policy which has led to the loss of investment and jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted strongly in favour of the resolution on the simplification of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020, because it is a pressing need to increase the spending capacity of the regions and the effectiveness of cohesion policy as a whole. the new regulations already offer possibilities for simplification and reduction of administrative burdens. the ec initiative aims to help member states use funds and invest effectively, focuses on strengthening the administrative capacity of implementing bodies, reducing territorial disparities and helping regions experiencing a slowdown in growth to make up the gap, and assessing simplification measures. nevertheless, national and regional managing authorities are faced with an excess of rules to follow, hence the urgency of greater rationalisation and harmonisation of rules, but also flexibility, proportionality and results-based management. the current context based on a multi-fund strategy is welcome. it would be desirable to move to common procedures, just as there should be a single flow of funds meeting all needs at local level, a sort of one-stop shop with a single source of funding up to the local and regional level.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the current legal framework for the european structural and investment funds (esif) aims to strengthen coordination with other eu policies and instruments. the original role and objectives of cohesion policy and its importance as a tool for maintaining investment in europe's regions, especially in times of crisis and instability, must not be lost sight of. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the report, considering that the achievement of the strategic objectives of the esi funds should not be hampered by economic governance mechanisms.
in writing. ‒ mr lopez's report stresses the importance of investment and economic cohesion instruments to promote development and employment in the member states. i consider these issues to be of fundamental importance in the light of the serious socioeconomic situation in the european union at present and therefore i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution. in this context, it stresses the need to clarify the mechanisms for implementing the esi funds, which are multiannual in nature and are in sharp contrast to the european annual cycle.
in writing. ‒ reiterating also in this chamber that, in an era of economic crises and financial instability, europe must make every effort to ensure the full implementation of cohesion policy, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the european parliament should play an active role in monitoring the implementation of article 23 of the common provisions regulation (cpr). the guidelines examined in this report relate exclusively to the first part of article 23 of the regulation on the reprogramming or suspension of the european structural and investment funds of an optional nature (esif). in view of the fact that regional or local authorities may be penalized by reprogramming or suspending the above-mentioned funds, with the consequent deterioration of their economic and social situation, we must ensure a proportionate response in order to avoid bringing further disadvantages to regions already in difficulty. i voted in favour of this report because the commission seems to agree that it is necessary to reduce the reprogramming to the minimum necessary. in my view the sole objective of article 23 of the cpr should be to achieve a more sustainable and efficient cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that good economic governance and an effective cohesion policy are fundamental tools for dealing with and overcoming the economic crisis affecting the member states of the european union. the report calls on the european parliament to be the main democratic guarantor of the correct implementation of article 23 of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 concerning the mechanism of macroeconomic conditionality.
in writing. ‒ the macroeconomic conditionality provisions, i.e. the measures to link the european structural and investment funds to sound economic management, were a highly controversial aspect of the regulation laying down common provisions for cohesion policy 2014-2020, which had been rejected by a wide political spectrum in the previous legislature. however, since the final text of the regulation contained this principle, parliament had obtained that the corresponding provisions were used only as an extrema ratio. i therefore share the rapporteur's approach, which stressed the need to apply the macroeconomic conditionality provisions in the most justified and balanced way possible, in exceptional cases. while recognising the need for effective economic governance, i believe that such mechanisms should not stand in the way of the broader objectives of economic, social and territorial cohesion, especially in times of economic crisis and instability. it would not be acceptable for regional or local authorities to be unfairly penalized, through reprogramming or suspension of the funds and the consequent loss of a key source of public investment, because of macroeconomic failings on the part of central governments for which they have no responsibility. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy aims to strengthen the eu's economic, social and territorial cohesion and, in particular, to reduce the gap between regions by promoting balanced and harmonious socioeconomic development, in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. during the last parliamentary term one of the most controversial aspects of the negotiation process for the regulation laying down common provisions for the structural and investment funds was the 'macroeconomic conditionality' defined in article 23. the practical implications of renegotiation and possible suspensions of funds due to the macro-conditionality clause must be carefully assessed and, given the sharp drop in investment we are witnessing, only cohesion policy can guarantee that member states and regions will keep their commitments to reduce disparities and improve employment. it is our duty to continue to insist that the flexibility clause be applied to investment. we need a full revival of public and private investment in jobs, enterprises and the well-being of citizens.
in writing. i voted against this parliament's report on the application of article 23 of the regulation on the european structural and investment funds, which introduced a macroeconomic conditionality mechanism to make the disbursement of these funds subject to compliance with budgetary constraints and the implementation of the economic recipes indicated by the commission in the country-specific recommendations. a mechanism which would trigger the suspension of funds for the regions in the event of unsatisfactory progress in the implementation of structural reforms by central governments, with the counterproductive effect of worsening the economic situation and exacerbating social tensions in regions already experiencing economic difficulties. this is an absurd and unacceptable ploy, which has been strongly criticised in recent years, designed to put further pressure on central governments which show difficulties in complying with budgetary constraints or slowdowns in implementing reforms which are unfeasible or otherwise politically, economically and above all socially unsustainable. already in the econ committee, called upon to draw up an opinion on the subject, then rejected because it was incoherent and contradictory, confirming the split in this parliament on all governance issues, i was strongly opposed to any principle of macro-conditionality, in particular calling for the power of suspension to be limited exclusively to cases of fraud, corruption and mafia infiltration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the application of macroeconomic conditionality. parliament has obtained the safeguards it had requested, so that in the event of macroeconomic imbalances in the member states, the commission will be able to ask for suspension of payments only as a measure of last resort. in the face of the objectives of economic governance, we must not ignore the objectives of cohesion policy.
the vote will be taken at the next voting time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to this smart border measure, i think it is clear and indicative of the confusion in the european union about border management and the management of instruments, because this instrument was designed to make our lives easier, to make border controls simpler and therefore to move faster and to modernise us, in quotes. because of the tensions, because of the continuing discussions on the refugee issue, on the issue of these large migratory flows, it has now turned from a tool that was supposed to serve one thing into another kind of tool, which serves to raise this wall that the member states seem so happy to build. i think we should first of all focus on what the original purpose of this measure was and try to reduce the costs, because it is absurd to think of spending 800 million on something that could probably be done with a tenth of the cost and with a purpose that should be what it was designed for, not trying to use it to build a wall. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
i'm asking for a blue card. i wanted to ask my colleague whether, in view of the dramatic situation and for security reasons, it is not appropriate to put away passports and stamps that are lost and to move towards innovation, as he asks and as he intends to do with smart borders.
answer to a blue-card question. i respond to my colleague mussolini by saying that the objective was obviously to modernise ourselves, to make these procedures faster, because it is clear that in 2015 we do not want to waste time in very long lines at airports to put hand stamps again, and we can modernise ourselves with the technological tools that we have quickly. the problem with this package, i repeat, is that it is costing a disproportionate amount and that the objective has been shifted to trying to close the borders and use data without being very clear, thus also touching the concept of fundamental rights. that's the point.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, seven years have passed since the first idea of smart borders, and the geopolitical picture has changed considerably since then. it is undeniable that in recent months the borders have been affected by an unprecedented flow of migrants which has reiterated the need for smarter and more technologically advanced management of both the external borders and the entire schengen system, especially in view of the collection and continuous exchange of information. there may be important developments in the phenomenon of overstayers, although the smart borders package, with its automation and its considerable costs, cannot be seen as the only answer to such a delicate problem because of the social and legal implications that arise from it. the sensitive nature of the matter, which has become more apparent since the ruling on data retention, also requires careful regulation of the collection of biometric data and the retention of sensitive data, in line with the constraints arising from the charter of fundamental rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i had prepared a speech, but i would like to respond to the debate which has been opened in this house on the seat and on the merger between cepol and europol. we believe that at a time of such serious difficulties, given the changed needs, because as is known cepol was established in 2005, we should not talk about where the headquarters will be in the hague or budapest and whether there can be a merger with europol for a budgetary, economic issue. the most important thing is the training of police personnel who have to combat serious organized crime, illegal immigration, terrorism. then we need to focus on this. that is why we believe that having an entity, an independent agency, is of fundamental importance. nevertheless, there must be cooperation, an ever stronger network, to overcome what the rapporteur said about duplications or overlaps with europol, eurojust and frontex, which will also have to be re-modulated. so it is clear that we must get our hands on cepol, because the lisbon treaty says so, and i want to do this as a last step, so that fundamental rights are also respected in the response activities, as they should be, and in the protection and assistance of victims, with particular regard to minors, to children.
mr president, i would like to support the rapporteur in her speech. i was for many years minister of justice of the czech republic and i was involved in the training of judges and prosecutors and their preparation for cross-border cases and i know how important cooperation with the european judicial academy was. the same applies to the training of police and customs officers. it is not possible to train nationally in the territory of individual states, in short, and well, and it has been said here several times, crime today is transnational in nature, and it is therefore not just a matter for individual countries to train their police officers, customs officers and prosecutors. it is a european matter today and we need to work together and we need an agency. i am deeply convinced of this as a person who has been dealing with this issue at the czech political level. i therefore want to support the rapporteur's view, i want to support the renewal of this agency. i hope that this agency will not just be about communication between individual academies in individual nation states, but that it will be able to create common curricula and recommend how to train police officers and customs officers in the fight against cross-border crime. it is, in my opinion, very important. for me personally, it's not important where the agency is based, how it's funded, but what it's going to do, how it's going to help educate more police officers who are fighting cross-border crime. if this agency is in hungary, i personally have no problem with it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we all feel the need today, in the field of security, for the police and law enforcement authorities to be increasingly qualified and interconnected by means of an integrated system of continuing training. i therefore believe that it is useful to strengthen the structure and role of cepol, an institution which, with a limited budget and staff, has trained tens of thousands of officials in hundreds of activities, thanks to its interaction with the national academies. the framing of cepol as an autonomous union agency is consistent with the objective of building a common european law enforcement culture, based on respect for rights, and can also ensure good cost-benefit ratio. this will be even more so if we concentrate resources on a few thematic areas with a clear european and crossborder dimension and strategic importance, first and foremost the fight against organised crime.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it seems clear to me that we are facing a huge contradiction on this issue from the european union as a whole at the moment, because if on the one hand we want to proclaim ourselves as pioneers, as a bulwark institution in the defence of fundamental rights, on the other hand i hear comments from our conservative colleagues or from colleagues in the popular area that these protections of fundamental rights can easily be abandoned or suspended, and on the other hand i also see a commission that is uninterested in this issue. and we had to wait for the court of justice to tell us that, in this case brought out by snowden, about mass surveillance, about mass spying by american intelligence services, the attitude that has been taken by the commission is not right. this deal we have with them, this safe harbor, it's not right. so i expect, believe and hope that after this debate there will be a change of approach, a change of attitude and that the fundamental rights and the protection of these fundamental rights of european citizens will be put back in front of other types of interests.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the judgment of 6 october on the so-called safe harbour has shown the validity of the concerns often expressed in this parliament about the level of protection of the personal data of european citizens under the agreement on the transfer of data from europe to the united states. as in the case of data retention, the court has had to make up for the continuing difficulty, if one may say so, for the commission and the council to adopt, on the sensitive issues of privacy and data protection, regulatory measures and international agreements in line with the charter of rights. a difficulty to overcome. the commission and the council will therefore have to follow the court's guidance in negotiating a new agreement with the united states, replacing the logic of pure self-regulation with a more reactive and proactive surveillance system, thanks also to the role to be recognised by our data protection authorities, but they will also have to follow up more vigorously the european parliament's resolution of 12 march 2014 in its many aspects, without waiting for further action by the court.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what i would like to highlight in this report is the complete lack of democratic involvement in the decision-making processes of the european semester, and that is precisely what this commission is pushing for. we have seen how democracy is proving to be hostile to the semester, to reforms, to liberalization, to austerity, to private investment. it is reacting violently, democracy, and you continue to impose, as you did in italy in 2011, as you did in greece, as you did recently in portugal, these same failed policies. we have obviously demonstrated our democratic dissent, because we have this mandate from the citizens, who have given us the vote to try to bring about this change. but it's never going to happen. why would you do that? because unfortunately austerity is tied to the euro. we have seen that we cannot imagine another europe, different and without austerity, while remaining in the euro, and tsipras and his failure are precisely the example that should prove this to everyone. and also because in this europe only german is spoken. we see how the procedures are applied for weak countries, whereas for germany, which has had a trade surplus of more than 6% for seven years, commissioner, no sanctions are applied and no rules are applied to make germany respect its moral obligations towards what is an internal market which it is destroying. so do something about it, but we don't believe it anymore because you're following a completely different line of reasoning. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. thank you for asking. i would like to highlight one factor that has happened just in these days. we have seen elections in the euro zone, in portugal, where the president has prevailed by saying that in order to guarantee the stability of the financial markets he could not allow a government against austerity to question the project of this europe in the slightest. we have seen that poland, a country which does not have the euro, can still afford to have a political force which is even a little bit opposed to these crazy and vicious eurozone policies. so whoever has monetary sovereignty also has the democratic possibility to decide their own future. those who do not have it are enslaved to this eurozone system.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that this report reflects positively the correct direction of the fiscal policy of the euro area which is being pursued by the juncker commission through genuine growth-friendly fiscal consolidation and therefore through measures which balance the actual reduction of the deficit and the debt with the best use of the flexibility provided for by the rules. so we naturally encourage the commission to be consistent with this approach, which is clearly expressed in our report and also in the opinions that they will express on the stability laws of the member states. the second element is the improvement of our governance, which is absolutely necessary and goes hand in hand with a correction of the direction of economic policy. the package presented here contains measures that are undoubtedly important and positive, such as a recommendation on the overall fiscal position of the euro area. at the same time, i think there are limits to ambition, because i think it must be clearly recognised that there are more ambitious measures that can be achieved even under permanent treaties to strengthen the coordination of the economic policies of the member states and to build an embryo of fiscal capacity. secondly, i believe that the parliamentary dimension of the european semester should be strengthened. there are certainly limits, gaps, in the commission's package. parliament is also ready to engage in dialogue and to fight for a strengthening of its role, which is essential to building effective governance of the euro area, because without full democratic legitimacy the euro will not have an effective government.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, minister dombrovskis, minister schmit, we have been up late, i hope you are aware of that. i do not know if you want to hear me. we are in a state of collapse because we have been waiting to see a figure of 12 million european citizens who are exhausted and hungry, and we will replicate a model such as the youth guarantee, which you know very well has been a total failure because the states that implemented it have failed. they've been missing in the organization. can you explain to me how we want to re-qualify the long-term unemployed, who are perhaps 45-50 years old and have a family, with a training course paid 4 euros an hour? is that what you want to do? because i wonder: is it to ensure dignity? you said something about families. well, a family with 4 euros an hour of training course does not feed our children.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the midst of the many stories of deprivation of the right to work, the story of the longterm unemployed tells dramatic stories of new poverty. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not disrupted by the economic crisis. it is up to us, it is up to europe, to create the conditions for the most deprived segments of the unemployed to be usefully reintegrated into the enterprise system. a modern approach to active labour policies should be promoted by reviewing the infrastructure of the skills of the public and private system of relocation of workers, which is still inadequate today. development and growth plans must be linked to active labour market policies, responding to new training needs. in short, we need smart policies that can talk to each other and build a modern outpost for growth, starting with human capital. so we are on the eve of big choices affecting europe. the council's recommendation certainly encourages a change of course in a non-dreamlike view of development, starting with the suggestions offered by the new economies.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i want to use my minute to express a simple and clear concept. the european commission's proposal on longterm unemployment has some positive elements, but it can only be effective if it is complementary to the existing instruments to deal with the employment crisis in europe, notably the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative. it is therefore urgent to launch this initiative, drawing on the experience of the youth guarantee in the field, avoiding the slowness and the mistakes which have also been highlighted in the resolution we are voting on tomorrow, and to strengthen the instruments, including financial ones, to support the fight against long-term youth unemployment. we regard the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework, which is part of the commission's work programme presented yesterday, as an opportunity to shape a comprehensive strategy to combat unemployment, one which can re-woven the social fabric in european countries and between european countries without worsening the intergenerational dimension of the economic crisis. the data are still very worrying, let's not forget that. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
i'm asking for a blue card. mr benifei, briefly and without controversy: how can measures be taken to support the longterm unemployed when - as you know - in a country like ours there are no social protection measures to enable the longterm unemployed to be re-trained and re-placed? how can we support them before they are re-employed? what are the ways and means of supporting these people?
answer to a blue-card question. i think two aspects in particular should be emphasized. with regard to italy, in particular, which was at the centre of the demand, we must continue the work already begun in recent months with the latest decree implementing a reform in our country, the so-called jobs act, which concerns the reform of employment centres and employment services. the functioning of these structures is fundamental and is also at the heart of many european recommendations. in addition, european welfare instruments are needed: i am thinking, for example, of unemployment benefits for the euro area.
in writing. the economic crisis has created a very high number of unemployed people and, as a result of the closure or downsizing of historical companies, in many cases these are people who have difficulty in comparing themselves with the current world of work and in retraining. it is therefore essential to draw attention to the importance of targeted intervention, adapted to different social and occupational realities. the incentives offered to employers to take on longterm unemployed are also important in this respect, so that no one is excluded from the world of work for too long. the prospect is to signal to the council the importance of targeted aid, adapted to the specific needs which have emerged in view of the exponential growth in unemployment over the last decade.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the idea of proposing a long-term strategy again is acceptable. but we cannot talk about the future without learning from the past and we must be frank about the fact that the experience of the past five years with the europe 2020 strategy has been a failure. the ambitious targets set were not achieved, because the crisis was affecting all the economies of the european countries and increasing unemployment and the suffering of the people. so we must imagine the possibility of correcting the way by also taking the viewpoint that was defined at the beginning. and then you have to prioritize. it is no coincidence that my colleagues have repeatedly spoken of research, development and innovation, which were at the heart of the lisbon proposal in 2000. think of how much time has passed without any tangible results. growth and competitiveness must be based on research and innovation, and on the other hand citizens must be protected. social protection gives cohesion and cohesion is an extraordinary factor of competitiveness, as we have learned from the years that have passed and in which many countries, using cohesion, have made their economies strong.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, halfway through the europe 2020 strategy, when it was being reviewed, you were right, mr vice-president, to admit that not everything had worked. it is right to set long-term, long-term goals: we are called to "vision". but we must also take coherent action to achieve the objectives we set ourselves. for example, if we want to achieve, as we have said, smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and if we want to increase employment to 75%, we cannot then implement for years, in an economic recession, only austerity policies which have in fact blocked the competitiveness and development of our system. as mr rodriguez has very well said, the european semester was conceived as the driving force behind this strategy for economic growth and employment, and today it has become above all a means of checking whether the states have done their homework on fiscal and budgetary consolidation objectives. we must learn from the past and from the mistakes we have made in the past. today we have new instruments for growth and public investment, starting with the juncker plan, but also new challenges. i am referring to migration, but also to the transition to a circular economy. i hope that in the review and updating of the strategy, this will be taken into account.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i wish to thank members for this debate. the european commission’s political guidance provides a clear roadmap and a guide for action that is perfectly consistent and compatible with the europe 2020 strategy, which remains fully valid as our long-term strategy for jobs and growth. the commission will therefore implement the 2020 strategy focusing on concrete tools and deliveries, which underpin the current multiannual financial framework and the european structural and investment funds, with the european semester as an implementation and monitoring tool. the europe 2020 strategy and the political guidelines are two sides of the same coin. the first sets out the medium to long-term vision and the latter provides a clear roadmap to guide the way. it is evident that these two must be coherent and interact well with each other. the political guidelines are constantly complemented and updated to meet new challenges as the five presidents’ report and the commission’s responses to new challenges, such as the current migration crisis, show. the strategy, however, provides strategic guidance when the eu enters uncharted waters beyond the priorities of the coming year. at the same time, reflection will continue on the vision beyond 2020 and the results will be presented next summer.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president of the commission, we are now almost at the end of the legislative process which has involved me for the last year and a half, but which had already begun in the previous parliament and which i hope will be completed tomorrow with final approval: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. i am quite satisfied with this approach, not only because it is the first legislative report on which i have had the pleasure of working here in the european parliament, but also because i believe that a good compromise has been found between the two main objectives of this regulation, namely to ensure an efficient and liquid market for securities financing operations, but even more to ensure transparency and clear rules in order to prevent systemic risks in the financial market. the crisis that erupted in the united states in 2007 and quickly spread to europe has shown clearly not only how strongly interconnected the global banking system is, but also how many connections there are between the traditional banking system and the so-called shadow banking system, that is, the set of entities that, while performing functions similar to those traditionally performed by banks, do so outside the system of rules to which credit institutions are subject. the ecb board has said that "too big and too indebted, this shadow banking system". in fact, some of the operations carried out by the shadow banking system can result in a level of excessive indebtedness, thus increasing the risk and the danger of the entire system. it has been estimated that shadow banking may have represented some eur 51 000 billion in 2011, or four times the gdp of the whole of europe. securities financing is one of the main links between the shadow banking system and the traditional banking system and that is why the financial stability board and the group of experts led by liikanen, and then the european commission, have offered a series of recommendations aimed at ensuring transparency and security, while preserving the necessary liquidity of this market, which is, however, an important market in ensuring the possibility of financing and the possibility of using liquidity. the regulation we are about to adopt aims to improve three important aspects of this market. first, the proposed regulation requires that all transactions be reported in a central database: this will allow us to understand the scale of the shadow banking and the link between it and the traditional financial system. secondly, there is a need for greater transparency between investment funds active in this market and investors, and finally for better regulation of reuse or rehypothecation of securities. efforts have also been made to simplify and take advantage of other regulations affecting financial markets, such as emir. the need for transparency and security in the operations of the european central bank was also discussed. i think that a good compromise will be put to the vote in the house tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the shadow banking system since the great crisis of 2009 is the system in which systemic risk has largely been concentrated. this would have required a much more radical and non-compromising approach, because, unfortunately, transparency is not enough. the use of leverage and the reuse of collateral had to be further restricted in order to secure more financial transactions. since the 2009 crisis, the commission has taken the right direction towards genuine financial regulation. unfortunately, the last two measures, namely the banking structural reform and the measure we are discussing now, have been shelved and there is no political will to do real regulation, because they prefer to move towards a capital market union and deregulation with the use of still systemic products, such as financial securitisations, not remembering the lessons learned in 2009. we must not bow to the financial markets which impose conditions on us, because politics must be able to regulate finance.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, we are delighted that so many members are able to support this legislation, which will increase transparency in the financial markets. looking ahead, the commission is keen for the reporting rules to be finalised as rapidly as possible. this will enable us to get the system properly up and running. once the data has been collected, we can get started with our analysis, hone in on potential risks and make sure that these are effectively managed. this legislation provides for a report to be drawn up by the european securities and markets authority (esma) by the end of 2016 that will assess the financial stability board (fsb) recommendations on minimum haircuts. the commission will publish its report a year later, setting out progress in international efforts to mitigate the risks associated with securities financing transactions. this will include a view of the appropriateness of the fsb recommendations for eu markets. but today i would urge members to support this legislation to increase transparency so that we can have an oversight that is proportionate, help investors make informed investments and make our markets safer.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i really appreciate the comments i have heard in the house tonight about the substantial support by all of us for the measure we are voting on tomorrow. i also understand the concern of some colleagues, and particularly mr valli, who spoke last, that he was perhaps a little too severe about the fact that we have missed the opportunity to put a limit on the level of leverage that can be used, and also to put a limit on the number of times that the instruments can be reused and reused. in fact, the financial stability board is working on it, and we're waiting to see what comes out of this analysis, because it's too risky to over-regulate, especially the wrong kind of regulation of a market that is also valuable in providing liquidity to financial markets. in short, i think we can be satisfied with the current text, on which there has been a broad convergence of parliament, and i would therefore like to thank first of all my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs, for their really constructive contribution, and their staff. i also thank the european commission, in particular dg fisma, and finally the council, the italian and latvian presidencies, with whom this important achievement has been brought home.
in writing. the recent financial crisis has highlighted the existence of an excess of speculative activity as well as the existence of serious regulatory gaps in the financial system. the eu has adopted a number of measures to increase the soundness and stability of the banking system, including strengthened capital requirements, rules to improve governance, supervision, and resolution regimes. however, there is a need to improve transparency and control not only in the traditional banking sector but also in sectors where non-banks carry out credit activities, the so-called 'shadow banking system', whose size is alarming. we cannot therefore ignore the risks involved in securities financing operations. in particular, the lack of transparency prevented regulators and supervisors, as well as investors, from properly assessing and monitoring banking-like risks and the level of interconnectedness in the financial system in the run-up to the financial crisis or during the crisis. this regulation responds to the need to increase such transparency through stricter rules on disclosure to counterparties on re-use. in order to ensure compliance with those requirements, effective and dissuasive administrative penalties and measures should be provided for, in accordance with the principle of proportionality.
vice-president of the commission.– mr president, the commission attaches great importance to the issues faced by smes, in particular access to affordable financing, which is at the core of the capital markets union action plan and the review of the capital requirements regulation. i therefore welcome that so many members have raised this issue by way of oral questions. in particular, i would like to thank vice-president tajani for his involvement and contribution, and there is some time to discuss it today in plenary. the commission is committed to thoroughly assessing how eu financial regulations impact access to finance for smes and for banks and, in particular, how they impact local and regional banks. we have just closed a target consultation on the potential impact of the banking regulation on the financing of the economy, which covers the impact on sme lending as well as issues of proportionality and simplification. the responses are currently being analysed by the services of the commission. with the recent publication of a call for evidence, the commission has also launched a comprehensive review of the cumulative impact and overall coherence of financial legislation, in particular to assess interactions and whether they give rise to any unintended consequences. as regards assessing the potential benefits and strengthening alternative forms of lending, it is the commission’s standard practice as part of the better regulation agenda to conduct impact assessments in support of our proposals. this includes an analysis of the potential benefits and costs to different stakeholders, including smes. this was also the case for the crr and crd iv proposals in 2011. thanks to an amendment introduced by parliament, the capital requirements regulation contains a requirement for the commission to assess the impact of own funds requirements on lending to smes and natural persons and to report back to you and the council by 28 june, 2016. we are currently carrying out that analytical work, and the issue will be debated in the conference scheduled for 14 december on the impact of crr and crd iv on bank financing of the economy in which members of the european parliament are also warmly invited to participate. early next year, the european banking authority will provide technical advice to the commission. we will use this, as well as evidence from different sources, to deliver an objective and a reliable report to parliament and the council by the deadline. our first priority in the capital markets union action plan is to facilitate the financing of innovative companies, start-ups and non-listed firms. we will create an appropriate framework to enable innovative forms of business financing such as crowd—funding, private placements and loan originating funds to grow, while at the same time responding to the key risks. we will also launch a comprehensive package of measures to support venture capital and risk capital financing in the eu. we will explore ways to build a pan-european approach to better connect smes with a range of funding sources. with respect to work currently conducted by the basel committee to review the approach to credit risk, the goal is to reduce the importance of ratings provided by external credit rating agencies in determining regulatory capital requirements. this needs to be done without affecting the conservative capital requirements. the basel committee’s consultation paper includes ideas on how to replace ratings with other risk indicators and contains a preliminary illustrative calibration. in light of the predominantly negative responses received, we understand the basel committee is currently reviewing its approach but maintaining the original objective of reducing mechanical reliance on external ratings. the commission is closely following this debate as an observer at basel and generally shares the goal of reducing mechanical reliance on ratings. the commission will take a position once the final rules have been published.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, access to credit is the main obstacle to the growth of small and mediumsized enterprises, which represent 98% of the european business community. i thank you, mr vice-president, for the commitments you have made in your speech, and the european people's party will support you and your colleagues in the commission in all the actions you take to support small and mediumsized enterprises, especially in the very delicate question of access to credit, because the useful support programmes such as cosme or the funds made available by horizon 2020 are not enough to solve this difficulty. new strategies must be devised to make access to credit systematic and continuous, and i think that your speech has set out a course in the right direction. it is necessary to unlock unused capital through alternative - you also mentioned this - and conventional forms of financing, by strengthening the credit capacity of banks, especially the people's banks and the cooperative banks. that is why, in the oral question at the origin of today's debate, we asked the commission to report on the effectiveness of instruments such as the ems supporting factor and venture capital. if the european union had used venture capital, as the united states does, almost €90 billion could have been used to finance businesses in the worst years of the crisis, between 2008 and 2013. we also ask for an assessment of the impact of recent financial regulation on access to credit, as we ask for an assessment of the new definition of credit risk, which will be contained in the regulation coming from basle. and then we must also do more to free small and mediumsized enterprises from unnecessary bureaucratic constraints, including those on access to credit. public administrations must support small and medium-sized enterprises, especially start-ups and young entrepreneurs, and must do so by reducing red tape but also by paying their debts: almost 60% of businesses in europe report having liquidity problems due to late payments by public administrations. we call on the european commission to monitor the implementation of the late payments directive. states must set a good example: too often do not apply this good eu legislation.
i am also very anxious to address a request to the vice-president of the commission, who is here on behalf of the whole commission. we believe that this part of the debate this evening on credit for smes must be linked to a revival of the commission's action, which should be fully involved in supporting all the realities of our business, manufacturing and industrial world in europe, which we see has weakened somewhat. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the percentage of smes in relation to production units was first mentioned: i would like to mention the almost 90 million people employed by smes and their contribution to european gdp, which is 28%. so we cannot afford to neglect this important area. and speaking of access to capital, we need to be very clear about the things we need to do: it must be possible for small and mediumsized enterprises to find capital, to find it in the traditional banking market, with appropriate requirements, with an assessment of the risk factors relating to this type of situation, its characteristics, including the inherent weaknesses, but also taking into account the strength of these small businesses, and then also in the market for innovative capital. we are very confident that the capital market union can also make available new forms of capital, which you mentioned: venture capital and other forms less banking and more financial realities. but we cannot wait for these new directives to be finalised. we have to do something about it first. you made a number of proposals: i would like to say that the commission's proposals are very welcome, but what i recommend - two seconds more, mr president - what i recommend is that everything should not be resolved, as is often the case, by a certain bureaucracy in the commission, which carries out impact assessments, studies and consultations, but does not change the actual state of affairs. we ask for specifics. we are asking for measures to be taken which are precisely the right measures to change the reality of things and therefore the reality of access to credit for smes.
in writing. since the start of the crisis, the commission has launched several initiatives to facilitate credit to smes. these include the sme supporting factor under the capital requirements regulation which allows banks to benefit from a capital rebate for sme lending and the eu passport to increase confidence in european smes. the commission has recently stated that it intends to activate measures to support smes within the capital markets union. however, these initiatives appear to be unrelated and appear to have not had the desired effect, given the persistent difficulties faced by european smes in accessing credit. it would therefore be appropriate for the commission to initiate an overall impact assessment of eu financial regulation to assess its impact on european smes. the commission should also assess the benefits of the instruments used so far and look for new forms of financing that are alternative to the traditional banking channel - such as peer to peer lending and crowdfunding. given the crucial role of smes in the european economy and the crucial role they will have to play in the economic recovery, it is necessary to establish a more coordinated, effective and rational framework that will really increase the possibilities of financing and at the same time reduce the administrative burden.
member of the commission.– madam president, honourable members, thank you for this very fruitful debate. the drone industry has huge potential for the eu: for growth, for fresh jobs and for development at all levels of innovation. the eu is still the leading area of the world for business drones and i want it to stay that way. all our efforts will be directed towards synchronising an eu single market in order to enable economies of scale to be made, and to be competitive. the market is evolving fast and we are ready to act swiftly and holistically. we are already fully engaged at eu level and globally. as i have mentioned, the aviation package will address various aspects of the report, as well as the activities of the european aviation safety agency (easa) and the joint authorities for rulemaking on unmanned systems (jarus). the technologists’ and industrialists’ enthusiasm for the process is also well balanced with addressing citizensʼ concerns regarding safety, security, noise and privacy issues, as well as issues in relation to the manipulators of drones. however, we need to act in a proportionate manner to allow the evolution of the market and the manifestation of its full potential. thank you again to ms foster, and all the meps involved, for this report. i am looking forward to our future cooperation on this topic.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, europe is still the world's number one tourist destination. that's a comforting number today, but it's projected that by 2030, we'll be overtaken by other continental destinations. this is due to globalisation, the increasingly different economic conditions in the population of third countries, but also to the effects of digitalisation and lower air transport costs, which make previously distant or unknown destinations accessible today. in the face of this changed situation, we must be competitive, we must take account of the fact that tourism is the third largest economy in europe, and therefore the european institutions must give it the attention it deserves. the sector also maintained a good level of arrivals and attendance even in years of economic crisis, with positive results for businesses and an increase in the level of employment. tourism from competence to ambition: and our ambition is to increase our potential, but in a sustainable and responsible way, taking into account the challenges of climate change and respecting the environment. all member states, no one excluded, will increasingly have an attractive capacity as a destination, because the key to success in the tourism sector is to make the most of the territorial peculiarities that lie in culture and cultural heritage, traditions, environment and biodiversity, food and wine, sport, wellness and so on. we could certainly discuss at length all that can be achieved, given that over 100 types of tourism have been identified, but it is clear that to have effective and even communicative action we must focus on something specific and determined such as pan-european and transnational tourism products. tourist attractions are now a product that must be communicated quickly and widely. for this reason, i ask the commission to pay particular attention to the issue of digitisation. over 95% of travellers plan their trips and itineraries online, with a growing offer of collaborative consumption services. we have a fabric of small and medium-sized enterprises that must be supported in the face of global challenges: to know and to let know, in a digital world that is evolving, day by day, at an ever-faster pace. the debate in committee since the beginning of the year has brought out other important issues, such as the need for strong joint promotion, training for quality tourism and the need for european funds to be adequate for growth in the sector. i thank the committee on transport and tourism for voting in favour of the own-initiative report by a large majority, and this was thanks to the shadow rapporteurs, who did a fruitful and constructive job. i would also like to thank the members of the committees on culture, education and the internal market for the debate and the opinions they have expressed, which have enriched the report with important content. the contribution of the parliamentary groups shows that tourism is not political, it is a great opportunity for everyone. for this reason, there must not be a lone voice, but a choral voice that can give strength and impetus to effective action by the commission and the member states. the hope is that there will be no divisions in today's vote, so that the consensus will allow the commission to be given the broadest delegation so that in the coming years there can be further quantitative and qualitative progress in tourism. through these concrete actions we will demonstrate together that the european union is not bureaucracy and austerity, but our chance for success for the economic and working future of the younger generations.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work. it has been said before: europe, especially because of its rich cultural heritage, tangible and intangible, declined in all its various aspects artistic, linguistic, religious, historical, traditional is the main tourist destination in the world. in particular, cultural tourism accounts for as much as 40% of european tourism. it is without doubt the key sector for the revival of growth and employment in europe. in order to maintain existing levels and attract new tourist flows, it is essential to promote quality, sustainable and inclusive cultural tourism, to conserve and enhance europe's cultural and natural heritage, and to strike the right balance between tourism development and the safeguarding of cultural heritage. it is therefore right to support and strengthen all existing european initiatives and programmes, such as the european capitals of culture, the european cultural routes, the european cultural heritage label and creative europe. but that's not all. european cultural tourism is an important tool for personal growth and knowledge, a means of promoting the richness of european cultural diversity and, above all, of reinforcing the sense of belonging to our common european identity.
i am not going to repeat how important the tourism sector is and how important it is to invest well in the tourism sector. italy knows this well, because twenty years ago it was the world's number one tourist destination and now it is number five, also because of mistakes in investment and lack of modernisation. i have enjoyed the de monte report, which i think is a very good piece of work. there are critical points in the enthusiasm of creating a market. the market is not everything, there is the protection of the landscape, the territory and the environment, there are other values, such as the quality of the work of the employees, which is very low in this sector. and then there's a critical point, which is when you're trying to promote health tourism. i would like to see this point clarified, because i do not want this to encourage a kind of tourism which we do not like at all. health is a right that has cost great struggles and cannot be put on the same level or included in a tourist package along with food and wine or other pleasant aspects, of course. i do not want to encourage health dumping between our countries, where the dismantling of national public health services, which are one of the greatest achievements of our civilization, is already under way. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. maybe i'm not being clear. we should discuss it, of course! because if you talk about it, there's also spa treatments on the list. no one is going to oppose the promotion of the beautiful slovenian, italian or french spas. but if we are to bring health and health care to the european market, we must be careful: we are creating competition in an industry where the miracles of the free market cannot be allowed to work.
i'm asking for a blue card. i would like to ask my colleague a question. i am convinced that europe's strength lies in its diversity, also in terms of heritage, landscape and traditions. in the global challenge of tourism, for example, do you not think that a european quality framework, guaranteeing the quality of services, products, professionalism and also european packages that enhance the territory, is necessary to meet this challenge? just think of the european cultural routes: i am a transnational product, a remarkable product, which also crosses your country, from canterbury to rome, there is the via francigena. do you not find these to be positive experiences?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the adoption of this report on sustainable tourism, and we hope that europe will finally decide to pay more attention to this sector, which could be the driving force of our economy and a way out of the economic and employment crisis we are facing. the commitment of the institutions has been too weak so far, including in terms of allocating financial resources to support small and mediumsized enterprises in the sector. i would like to stress, however, the importance of protecting the 'made-in' of our countries, which was accepted in committee thanks to an amendment tabled by us in the five star movement, and which in my view is much more important and significant than a european trademark, which does not in fact exist and which is not only unattractive but would even penalize our many wonderful specificities. the diversity of our beauties and heritage is the real wealth of the european union, not its flattening out on a common brand.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report - and i thank the rapporteur, mrs de monte, and all the shadow rapporteurs, starting with the rapporteur, mrs monteiro, of my party - is a report which deals with a subject which is objectively central to the economic and cultural development of our continent. and the demands are correct: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given more information to give a rigorous impetus to this economic and cultural awareness, new forms of stimulation through digitisation, the idea of the multimodal ticket, integrated digital services, the simplification called for by some colleagues on the issue of visas. but the central element, in my view, is the challenge of the europa brand. what is the europa brand? europe, seen from above, geographically, as a place, looks like the periphery of asia, the eastern periphery, but seen from within, before being a continent, it is a content. it's a cultural content. that is the europa brand, the heart of western culture.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, tourism is a strategic sector of our economy, generating over 10% of gdp and employing over 20 million people, many of them young people. despite the economic crisis that erupted in 2008, europe remains the world's number one tourist destination. but that doesn't mean we should rest easy. we must be determined to face up to the new challenges, starting with the digital one, if this is true, as it is true, as happens regularly in italy, where more than 20% of travellers plan their itineraries online, with a percentage increasing year by year. in europe, the figure is even higher. however, tour operators have to compete with new emerging destinations, with prices that are much lower. quality and seasonal adjustment must be emphasized, also in view of the changing demographic characteristics of the population. the european union must give its full support to this absolutely strategic sector and in this respect i fully support the de monte report.
i would like to thank mrs de monte, madam president, commissioner, and the other members. we know that cultural tourism accounts for more than 40% of the total in europe and is therefore linked to the preservation and enhancement of the landscape and cultural heritage, to the professional qualification of those involved, to strengthening the alliances of knowledge, as you have mentioned, commissioner, and to the quality and safety of services and products. this requires a genuine integrated european action plan and dedicated investments in all programmes - erasmus+, the social fund, creative europe, but also horizon 2020 - for the digitisation of cultural heritage. but there is a contradiction. the budget for 2016 in the cosme programme for tourism has been cut by more than half. however, global demand is changing and supply must therefore be diversified, making it sustainable and more consistent with the european common heritage: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote tourism, not the 'bite and run' approach, but the 'experiential tourism', a slow, seasonal approach, including sports and religious activities, which promotes small towns and often follows european cultural routes. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i think the question is directed to me, but also to the commissioner, about the cut. it 's true . there are only two cosme budget lines devoted to tourism and in particular to itineraries, products and services, and both have been cut in a very significant way. one of them was the result of a pilot project, which was then turned into a budget line, proposed by the undersigned and the committee on culture. so i ask the commissioner this question, because i think that this answer must be given, otherwise there is a contradiction between this important report and the practical implementation of these initiatives.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe - the world's number one tourist destination - is only vaguely aware of the potential that tourism can generate, traditionally relegating it to a spontaneous, if not secondary, resource. this lack of awareness is evident when we highlight the delay in the formation of a european consciousness and when we consider that, although it responds to many of the european priorities - sustainable growth, employment, the digital single market and fairness - tourism does not have a dedicated line in the budget of the european union, but an incoherent allocation of funds, pilot projects and preparatory actions. this resolution, and i congratulate mrs de monte on her excellent work, is aimed at meeting this strategic need, both for material purposes (the safeguarding and preservation of historic and monumental beauty) and for intangible purposes (the strengthening of european identity, multicultural understanding and sustainability). the desired benefit is to stimulate the many regions of our continent in the development and implementation of policies relating to tourism, in order to generate solid employment, gdp and benefits for smes.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like to thank the members for this rich and stimulating debate. we all agree that tourism is an important economic sector and we need to explore its potential. the commission, member states and the industry should join forces and work together to keep europe as the world’s number one tourist destination. let me be more specific now and respond to a couple of the points made. first, on the new action plan, the 2010 communication is very comprehensive and a lot of work can be done within its framework. however, new challenges have arisen. the commission will address them through targeted measures in close cooperation with parliament, member states, regions and the industry. second, on funds and investment, the commission will continue to promote the visibility of funds that can be used in tourism. we will organise a high—level event on this topic in april 2016. i would point out, at the same time, that in 2016 the budget for tourism is eur 4.5 million. this allows projects from 2015 to be continued and to be evaluated in order to build on their results. third, on taxes, the commission will analyse the impact of taxes – both national and regional – on tourism. it is important to point out that taxation is primarily a national competence. fourth, on branding and promoting europe, this is an important priority for the commission. we consider that it must be done via joint promotional efforts in cooperation with member states, regions and the industry. last, but not least, on safety, aspects related to the safety of services will be looked at in the context of the consumer protection regulation. in conclusion, i would like to express my thanks for the very comprehensive report. i look forward to our future fruitful cooperation.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the commissioner, because i am very pleased that she has welcomed the content of this report, which, as i said, is certainly not the work of one person or a few, but it has been really useful to have everyone's input. the debate certainly does not end here today, because we have a task force and an intergroup on culture and tourism which are working very actively, and so i think this is simply a starting point for very intensive work in the future. i have shared the speeches by colleagues who have spoken on the subject of culture and said that we must promote european cultural diversity and identities, and that is because we really must not only talk about tourism, but we must also talk about a rich territorial promotion. but when we talk about immigration, we really confuse two issues that should not be put on the same level. i know that immigration and asylum seekers are a matter of concern to the european union. but we must not give the wrong message either, that europe is not an attractive and safe destination today. and then, ladies and gentlemen, when sovereignty and the europe of nations are at stake, we should not be sitting here. we are sitting here because we have to believe in europe and its potential, including the fact that we have a new tax policy. i would like to reassure my maltese colleague that the aim of the report is undoubtedly to take account of environmental aspects and also of the quality of work, also to improve, why not, the level of wages, indeed it must certainly be so, and to ensure that health does not give rise to social dumping but is an increase in quality in all the member states. finally, a thought: i believe that europe should not be a collection of 28 states and 28 tourist policies, but a single, attractive destination, the dream of many tourists worldwide. thank you all for your cooperation and your help.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the request to reject the commission's proposal shows that parliament has played its role as co-legislator with dignity. we are talking about a proposal without any impact assessment, which would create excessive fragmentation of the internal market and lead to distortions of competition to the detriment of farmers in countries opposed to gmos. not only that: the proposal, which contains elements that are not compatible with wto rules, does not adequately protect european citizens and the environment from the risks arising from gmos, since any national bans on their use would be impossible to implement under the rules of the eu's common market. i would remind you that last year we voted in favour of the new commission on the basis of president juncker's political programme, which promised to revise the rules governing the authorisation of gmos in europe so that the commission could no longer authorise gmos if a clear majority of member states were against it. although the commission has indicated that it does not intend to withdraw the proposal, parliament has sent a clear signal with this vote, and i hope that this will be taken into account.
mr president, i have supported this report on the european citizens' initiative. unlike the authors, i do not think it is a big failure that after three years no initiative has yet succeeded, because in my view it should be an exceptional institution that should initiate the legislative process at european union level. the problem is that in three cases citizens have already collected signatures, fulfilled the conditions and the european commission does not respond quickly and flexibly enough to the petition. i think the problem is more about how to respond to a situation where citizens are collecting signatures and putting a clear proposal on the table. and here i see the mistake of the european commission, which should think about how it is reacting rather than debating whether to change the rules at this moment - three years after the institution has become effective - when this initiative can be used. i hope that this will be discussed in 2016 as we lead the debate on how to change the european citizens' initiative.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that regional strategies can bring tangible benefits to the regions concerned, and the future of the adriatic and ionian region is fundamental to the european union. the european union's strategy in this region must therefore be a major step forward for the development of these territories and must be able to add value to the actions of the community, national and regional authorities, as well as those of the private sector, in this area. we can 't hide one thing either . the strategy has particularly interesting prospects for the candidate and potential candidate countries. although the commission has repeatedly stated that there will be no further enlargement in the near future, the strategy will allow these countries to move closer to the union by aligning their policies and working closely with the member states. as the events of the past few months, and in particular the refugee crisis, have shown, the balkans are of priority interest to europe. well, this strategy must equip this region with the tools to become more stable.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the european coordination of training activities on police matters by the european police college (cepol) in order to improve cooperation between police forces in the member states, and therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ this decision updates the mandate for the european police college (cepol), which was established in 2005 as a union body with the purpose of contributing to the training of senior police officials and officers of the member states and facilitating cooperation between national police forces. the objectives and modalities shall be updated in the organisation and coordination of training activities on police matters with a european dimension, including in order to avoid duplication or overlap and to ensure better coordination of training activities for law enforcement officials. in view of the work and mission of cepol, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the european union agency for the training of law enforcement officers (cepol) and repealing and replacing council decision 2005/681/jha. cepol is the agency responsible for training law enforcement authorities. it is not a training institute in the traditional sense: its courses are held throughout the eu and are mainly implemented by a network of national police academies. the proposal for a regulation modernises cepol's legal basis and aligns it with the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty, entrusting cepol with the implementation of the principles of the new european training programme for law enforcement authorities. as the european parliament has repeatedly called on the commission to bring cepol's existing legal framework into line with the lisbon treaty and the new ambition set out in the european training programme for law enforcement authorities, so as to enable cepol to implement the european training programme for law enforcement authorities effectively and to respond to the interest of the wider law enforcement community, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to 'lisbonise' the decision of the gai council establishing a european union agency for the training of law enforcement officers (cepol), i.e. to repeal and replace it with an eu regulation. cepol is the agency responsible for training the member states' law enforcement authorities: the courses are held throughout the eu, mainly through the network of national police academies. while the alignment with the existing legal framework is certainly positive, we believe that the governance structure of cepol could be further streamlined, primarily through better coordination with initiatives already under way and the relocation of the agency from budapest to the hague so as to cluster with the other agencies active in matters already there. this would help to free up funds which are desperately needed at the moment, particularly in the area of migration policy. the proposed regulation, on the other hand, provides for an increase in the budget of cepol (due to changes in its responsibilities). for these reasons i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the eu's internal security needs are constantly evolving and, as a result, police forces and law enforcement officials are faced with ever-increasing demands and therefore proper training is of the utmost importance. i am also convinced that focusing action on european added value, strengthening the coordination and support role of cepol, together with the development of greater efficiency and better resourcing, are the main keys to achieving the objectives set.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the proposal for a regulation updating the legal basis of cepol (european police college) and aligning it with the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty, entrusting it with the implementation of the principles of the new european training programme for law enforcement authorities. the european police college not only provides a platform for supporting cooperation between national bodies, but is also involved in the implementation and delivery of training activities at european level. in this respect, i believe that high-quality training for law enforcement officials is essential in the fight against the various forms of organised and crossborder crime. only through smooth and effective crossborder cooperation will it be possible to counter the growing threat posed by organised crime.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to repeal and replace, through an eu regulation, the decision adopted by the gai council, which established a european union agency for the training of law enforcement officers (cepol). cepol is the agency responsible for training the law enforcement authorities of the member states. despite the agency's rather modest budget and limited staff, closer cooperation between the european commission and the gis agencies was called for to increase efficiency and avoid duplication, uncoordinated initiatives and unnecessary overlaps. the proposed regulation also gives new powers to cepol, which implies the need for new funding from the eu budget, which would be subtracted from other priorities in the field of iam, including immigration. another point of discussion concerns the seat of the agency: the rules say it's in budapest. i have decided to abstain, particularly in relation to the seat of the agency, which i believe should be leased in the hague, where europol and eurojust are also located, in order to increase its efficiency and reduce its costs.
in writing. ‒ the new regulatory framework, following the failed merger attempt between cepol and europol, would enable cepol to effectively implement the european training programme for law enforcement authorities and to respond to the interest of the wider law enforcement community. however, in order to contain costs and to achieve closer cooperation between agencies, efficiency should be increased by avoiding duplication, uncoordinated initiatives and unnecessary overlaps. the practical possibility of cepol and europol sharing certain resources and services, particularly as regards administrative tasks (e.g. finances, personnel, it, logistics or security), would allow for some savings and would certainly have positive effects due to the increased contacts between operational and training staff. this cooperation would obviously be easier if both agencies were based in the same place.
in writing. the european police college (cepol) is the agency responsible for training authorities to combat transnational crime. the current proposal for a regulation modernises cepol's legal basis, aligns it with the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty and entrusts cepol with the implementation of the principles of the new european training programme for law enforcement authorities. i believe that proper training of law enforcement officials is of great importance in combating this criminal case and i therefore support mrs gál's report.
in writing. ‒ the european police college (cepol) is an eu agency dedicated to training and creating learning opportunities for law enforcement officers. cepol's activities are designed to facilitate the sharing of knowledge and best practice and to contribute to the development of a common european law enforcement culture. since high-quality training for law enforcement officials is essential for the fight against serious forms of organised and cross-border crime, it is necessary to ensure that cepol is modern, efficient and adequately staffed. it is therefore appropriate to modernise cepol's legal basis and align it with the changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon, entrusting the european police college with the implementation of the principles of the new european training programme for law enforcement authorities. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ having seen the amended text, i can say that i agree with the overall meaning of the amendments: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. i appreciate the eu's continued commitment to upholding its principles by all means and policies, and i am honoured to be able to contribute to this. my contribution is to say that i would vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed a new regulation for the european police college (cepol). the proposal aims to bring the existing legal framework within which cepol operates into line with the treaty of lisbon and to provide high-quality training for police officers. the eu's internal security needs are constantly evolving and police and law enforcement officials are therefore faced with increasingly complex and diverse demands. a modern, efficient and adequately staffed cepol agency is vital. i voted in favour of this resolution because it is a proposal which is particularly suited to help combat organised and crossborder crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the european union agency for the training of law enforcement officers (cepol), as i believe that crossborder police cooperation between member states needs to be improved in order to ensure the safety of european citizens. in line with the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty, the report proposes an update of cepol's legal basis and introduces a new european training regulation for law enforcement authorities providing police officers with specific skills and knowledge in international security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the text aims to improve training activities on police issues with a european dimension, also to avoid duplication or overlap and to ensure better coordination of training activities for officials of the authorities responsible for combating crime.
in writing. ‒ cepol's objectives are to increase knowledge of the member states' national police systems and structures and to improve crossborder police cooperation within the european union, to improve knowledge of international and union instruments and to provide adequate training on respect for democratic guarantees. i voted in favour of the new regulation because i believe it is essential to update the legal basis of cepol in order to improve eu security by implementing a new approach to training for eu police officers. cepol will train law enforcement officials at all levels, providing them with the knowledge and skills needed to prevent and combat cross-border crime, promoting effective cooperation with colleagues from other member states, eu agencies, third countries and international organisations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i am convinced of the importance of ensuring certain safety standards within the eu territory. every day the security sector faces new challenges: it is therefore essential to give all possible support to the police forces who are called upon to deal with these new demands on a daily basis. the effective fight against crime requires the breaking down of cross-border barriers and the establishment of full cooperation between officials in the various european countries. the right training and the exchange of best practice between european countries are now vital to safeguarding and promoting the safety of citizens.
in writing. ‒ i believe that there is a need to improve control and transparency both in the traditional banking sector and in credit intermediation sectors such as securities financing. for all these reasons i voted in favour of this measure.
in writing. - i vote for it. this regulation lays down rules on the transparency of securities financing transactions (sfts) and re-use. a reporting and safeguarding obligation is introduced for sfts; trade repositories shall be registered with esma. any right of counterparties to reuse financial instruments received as collateral is subject at least to the conditions set out in this regulation (the enf amendments call for a reuse ban). the commission may adopt implementing acts on the equivalence and recognition of trade repositories with regard to a third country. infringements are subject to administrative sanctions, unless a member state provides for criminal sanctions instead. this measure is part of the measures taken after the financial crisis of 2007-2008 to close regulatory loopholes in the financial system and to address inefficient supervision, opaque markets and excessive complexity of financial products. the crisis has highlighted the need to improve transparency and oversight not only in the traditional banking sector but also in sectors where credit intermediation similar to banking takes place, known as 'shadow banking'.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the reporting and transparency of securities financing transactions. it is well known that financial crises have led to a proliferation of speculative activities that have exploited regulatory loopholes in the system, ineffective supervision, opaque markets and excessive product complexity. the so-called 'shadow banking' has emerged, which tends to escape the control of the bodies responsible for the traditional banking sector and may have a real risk of causing other serious financial crises to recur. there is therefore a need to improve transparency and information in order to limit, within the physiological and instrumental limits of the capital market, the accumulation of leverage. the objective of this legislation is therefore to increase the transparency of securities financing transactions by means of efficient reporting of trading data. the adverse effects are very serious because of the proliferation of otc derivatives transactions. as stated in the report, i agree that it is appropriate to report information on financing operations concluded by each operator, financial or non-financial, and i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ in the econ commission we supported an approach to strengthen transparency requirements. we have in particular called for the elimination of all exemptions for banks and all those involved in this type of transaction, for increased reporting requirements, for the removal of professional secrecy and for stricter sanctions. we also asked for the introduction into the regulation of a reuse ban, i.e. a ban on the re-collateralisation of securities offered as collateral in a new securities financing operation, in order to avoid the creation of collateral chains and contain the risks of contagion, and the application of minimum haircuts on collateral of 6% in order to reduce excessive leverage and limit the risk of contagion of operations. our improvements were not included in the final text which was further weakened during the trilogues with the council and the commission on exemptions, information requirements and sanctions. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i remember that the global financial crisis of 2007-2008 showed a lack of prudence in the financial system. the union has already adopted a number of measures to increase the soundness and stability of the banking system, and it should be noted that securities financing transactions are used by other financial counterparties, such as credit institutions, and by non-financial counterparties, and create specific risks for entities that hold shares or are clients of such counterparties. credit institutions should therefore report their securities financing transactions. in order to ensure an efficient regulatory framework for shadow banking, progress in the introduction and application of internationally consistent obligations remains essential: the commission should submit regular reports to the european parliament and the council with a view to strengthening the supervision and regulation of the shadow banking system and, therefore, to present the state of play of measures taken by the union and by the main third-country jurisdictions.
in writing. ‒ the global financial crisis has heightened the perception of excessive speculative activity, serious regulatory gaps in the financial system, the ineffectiveness of current supervisory instruments and the negative influence on the economy of the so-called 'shadow banking system'. the crisis has therefore highlighted the need to improve the transparency and control of financial transactions in securities. the lack of transparency and harmonised tax rules between member states has so far caused significant difficulties for national regulatory and supervisory authorities in assessing and understanding the real risks that individual operators pose to the system. i support the report because the new rules proposed for the regulation in question require the reporting of information on financial transactions concluded by all market participants. risk information will be accessible through the relevant european and national authorities. the regulation is an essential legislative instrument because it aims to strengthen financial stability in the european union by increasing the transparency of certain market activities and by introducing rules on financing operations, which ensure an efficient regulatory framework for the entire banking system.
in writing. ‒ the proposal was put forward last year by the european commission alongside the more well-known bank structural reform to prevent banking activities from moving from the traditional system to the shadow banking system, as it is less regulated. the package was intended to be the last piece of the financial system reform agenda after the 2008 financial crisis, but in practice the proposal did not introduce any real regulation. the commission has also made it quite clear that it has no intention of regulating shadow banking. on the contrary, it is now promoting it with the proposal to create the capital markets union. after supporting in the econ committee an approach to strengthen transparency requirements and after proposing amendments (which were not included in the compromise text) which provided for the elimination of all exemptions for banks and all parties involved in this type of transaction, to increase disclosure requirements, to impose stricter penalties, a regulation on the prohibition of reuse and the application of mandatory minimum collateral margins of 6% in order to reduce excess leverage and limit the risk of contagion of transactions. that is why i think it is appropriate to vote against.
in writing. ‒ excessive speculative activity in european financial markets, the complexity of the products traded and the lack of an adequate regulatory framework were some of the main causes of the 2008 financial crisis. the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the reporting and transparency of securities financing transactions builds a fence to these problems by an important work of synthesis between the main disciplines present in this field at european level. in particular, european standards are being raised in the shadow banking system, which has been an amplifier of the financial crisis through the spread of toxic products in national financial markets. another important element is the increased cooperation between the authorities involved in the supervision of financial markets at european level, such as the central banks of the european system and the competent authorities. this text thus adds a fundamental element to the regulatory framework which the european union is adopting both to monitor markets more closely and to give the economic fabric of financial markets a new central role.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution endorsing the agreement between the council and the ep on the regulation on securities financing transactions, because these operations play a significant role in the financial sector and provide liquidity to the secondary debt market, and contribute to an efficient allocation and better use of capital. i therefore share the need for this new piece of sectoral financial legislation, which will enter into force shortly, because, in the perspective of the creation of the capital markets union (cmu), it already contributes significantly to increasing the transparency and security of financial markets, while ensuring the necessary liquidity of this market, which is important for the purpose of financing and the use of liquidity. the new regulation aims to achieve specific objectives: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the transparency of securities financing operations. the adoption of this regulation, which proposes measures to avoid excessive leverage and rules on the transparency of financing operations, is a necessary measure at present. the crisis we are still experiencing was triggered by financial speculation and serious regulatory shortcomings. we can no longer afford to have legislative deficiencies in a sector such as finance, which should allocate capital to financing the productive economy and not speculative activity.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation. i believe that this measure is suitable for achieving the objective which this parliament has set itself with it: contribute to strengthening the financial stability of the union. the regulation adopted today introduces important rules on financial transparency for certain financing operations, and in particular for securities financing. i gave my positive opinion, considering that the rule protects, first of all, small investors, that is, citizens, who need, in the field of investment, a regulatory framework capable of ensuring maximum transparency in financing operations.
in writing. ‒ favourable to the proposal for a regulation on the transparency of securities financing operations. the regulation aims to improve the transparency of securities lending and repurchase agreements. the proposal will enhance financial stability by ensuring that information on securities financing transactions is efficiently communicated to the competent authorities. in addition, it will introduce measures to improve transparency, such as monitoring the build-up of systemic risks in securities financing transactions in the financial system and the reuse by banks and intermediaries of collateral provided by customers.
in writing. ‒ i think that the vote on this document is a good opportunity to give a boost to the problem of lack of transparency in the financial sector. i have repeatedly tabled amendments to resolutions on this subject with the same intention. i fully agree that a legally binding legal text which precisely regulates the procedure for financing operations should finally be adopted. i would vote in favour and i would be very pleased if the whole house voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ on 17 june 2015, the council and the european parliament reached a political agreement on the proposal for a regulation on the reporting and transparency of securities financing transactions, known as the 'securities financing transactions regulation'. the commission's proposal, presented in january 2014, aims to implement the action framework approved by the financial stability board, the international body responsible for monitoring the global financial system, which consists of 11 recommendations on risks associated with securities lending and repo transactions in the shadow banking system. the proposal for a regulation focuses on improving the transparency of securities lending and repurchase transactions in order to enable the competent authorities and all market participants concerned to have a proper understanding of the functioning of the market, the extent and nature of potential risks, and to develop effective and efficient intervention tools to prevent systemic risks. i believe that the international financial system should be adequately controlled by clear and easily applicable measures. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the transparency of securities financing transactions as it aims to strengthen and improve financial stability in the european union. the report introduces new financial transparency rules such as the obligation to report and communicate securities financing transactions to investors.
in writing. ‒ the global financial crisis has highlighted the existence of excessive speculative activity and serious regulatory gaps in the financial system, as well as the ineffectiveness of supervision, opacity of markets and excessive complexity of products. due to the lack of harmonised transparency rules, national authorities have often encountered many difficulties in comparing micro-level data from different member states and thus in understanding the real risks that individual operators pose to the system. it is necessary to avoid such distortions and obstacles in the union. this regulation responds to the need to increase the transparency of securities financing transactions. this new regulatory framework will enable securities financing transactions to be efficiently reported in trade repositories and communicated to investors. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. the securities financing transactions (sft) regulation was voted on during the last part-session. the proposal was put forward last year by the european commission together with the bank for structural reform. the initial objective was to prevent banking activities from shifting from the traditional banking system to the less regulated shadow banking system. the reform package, initially very ambitious, has not introduced any really significant regulation in practice. on the contrary, the commission has today amply demonstrated that it is going in the opposite direction with the creation of the capital markets union. in the econ committee we supported an approach aimed at strengthening transparency requirements in order to reduce excessive leverage and to limit the risk of contagion of transactions. but our requests were not included in the text and the result was a compromise to the downside. during the negotiations with the council and the commission, the regulation was further weakened and watered down. that is why we thought it appropriate to vote against it in the plenary. in voting against, we wanted to deplore yet another failed attempt by a europe incapable of acting on the causes of the crisis and incapable of defending the interests of european citizens and businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on transparency of securities financing transactions because i believe that there is a need to fill an existing regulatory gap in the area of supervision and transparency in the traditional banking sector and in the so-called 'shadow banking sector', where non-banks carry out credit activities. the strong speculative activity that followed the financial crisis of 2007 made clear the need for new regulation, based on the principle of transparency, to avert the risk of a new crisis.
in writing. ‒ this proposal was put forward last year by the european commission alongside the more well-known bank structural reform to prevent banking activities from moving from the traditional system to the shadow banking system, as it is less regulated. the package was intended to be the last piece of the financial system reform agenda put together after the 2008 financial crisis, but in practice the proposal did not introduce any real regulation. the commission has also made it quite clear that it has no intention of regulating shadow banking. on the contrary, today it is promoting it with the proposal to create the capital markets union. in the econ committee i took an approach to strengthen the transparency requirements and i also asked for the ban on reuse to be introduced in the regulation, but my requests were not included in the compromise text voted in the econ committee. during the trilogues the regulation was further weakened in terms of exemptions, information requirements and sanctions; i therefore thought it appropriate to vote against the report in plenary.
in writing. ‒ a system of mass surveillance destabilises the social system, whereby mistrust and fear of the society so organized spreads. the personal data of citizens are at the mercy of the interests of those who orchestrate this system. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution condemning mass surveillance.
in writing. ‒ every citizen is treated as a potential suspect. all this leads to the corrosion of the social system, to the lack of coherence and trust in society. mass surveillance is fundamentally wrong. and it is even more so as it is set and not discussed in italy. we are submitting to american dictates for a frightening and absurd subordination when we consider what we are talking about, namely the data and information that today concerns the entire life of every single citizen. i therefore reaffirm my vote in favour of this motion for a resolution condemning mass surveillance.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motions for resolutions on the follow-up to the european parliament resolution of 12 march 2014 on the mass electronic surveillance of eu citizens. in its resolution of 12 march 2014, the european parliament called on the authorities of the united states and the member states of the union to prohibit indiscriminate mass surveillance activities and the massive processing of personal data of citizens, denouncing the actions of the intelligence services reported, which have had a serious impact on the trust and fundamental rights of union citizens. following that resolution, with today's vote, we have signalled that the level of general awareness about electronic mass surveillance has increased. at the same time, however, the resolution stressed the general lack of urgency and willingness on the part of the majority of member states to seriously address the issues raised in the resolution and to follow up on the concrete recommendations contained therein, as well as the inadequacy of the commission's response. in the resolution parliament also called on the commission to act on the requests by december 2015, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ in its resolution of 12 march 2014, the european parliament called on the authorities of the united states and the member states of the union to prohibit indiscriminate mass surveillance activities and the massive processing of personal data of citizens, and denounced the actions of intelligence services reported to have had serious repercussions on the trust and fundamental rights of union citizens. the resolution points to the possible existence of other motives, such as political and economic espionage, given the capacity of the reported mass surveillance programmes. today we have instructed the libe committee to continue to monitor developments in this area and the follow-up to the recommendations contained in the resolution. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution because i do not agree with the accusative tone of the proposers: the fundamental rights of each of us must be safeguarded but security is important and cannot be underestimated. i also find the recent legislative and judicial decisions taken in the united states to limit mass surveillance by the nsa, such as the adoption in congress of the "usa freedom act", to be negative: i believe that the situation for the citizens of europe must remain unchanged unless there is a constructive dialogue between the parties and all views are taken into account. i am, however, disappointed that the commission has not taken account of parliament's clear request to suspend the tftp agreement, but i am hopeful that the institutions and the member states will be willing to seriously address the issues raised and reach a resolution.
in writing. ‒ in a hyperconnected and globalised world, the right to privacy and data protection must necessarily be protected, as should the national security of individual member states and of the european territory in general. i believe that the european institutions are doing their utmost to find the right balance between security and the protection of personal data.
in writing. ‒ i quote the words of edward snowden, international human rights defender, who is being asked to withdraw all criminal charges and offer him protection: "i don't want to live in a world where everything i do or say is recorded. this is something i am not willing to accept or support". indiscriminate mass surveillance activities and the mass processing of personal data result in unacceptable interferences with the fundamental right to respect for private, family and professional secrecy. the actions of intelligence services and mass electronic surveillance programmes, which hide behind political and economic espionage and the various interests of the companies that develop and operate them, undermine the trust and fundamental rights of the citizens of the union. measures are also needed to ensure that all personal data transferred to third countries are subject to an effective level of protection equivalent to that guaranteed in the eu. it is also necessary to monitor developments in this area at all times. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. technology is a source of knowledge and democratization of knowledge and not a potential risk for citizens who access it. i therefore deplore any reckless and potentially risky use of the network for citizens and call for strong action by europe to prevent any instrumental use of private data of network users for commercial purposes or any other kind of speculation. the eu stands ready to consolidate the commitments made in the european parliament resolution of 12 march 2014 on electronic mass surveillance and to take all measures at its disposal to ensure citizens' fundamental rights also in the digital age, first and foremost freedom of navigation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the follow-up to the european parliament resolution of 12 march 2014 on the mass electronic surveillance of union citizens because i believe that digitalisation today poses a serious problem of privacy and personal security. recent wikileaks investigations have revealed that in recent years the highest state and institutional authorities in the world's most important countries have been placed under surveillance and that this activity carried out by the us government agency nsa (national security agency) has not been sporadic but constant and systematic. i believe it is essential to guarantee citizens the protection of their right to freedom of opinion and expression in the digital age and i therefore deplore the use of electronic surveillance for political and economic espionage. i share the concern expressed by the rapporteur for the s&d group, mr moraes, about the adoption of laws passed in some member states which de facto expand the powers of intelligence and secret services without first ensuring control mechanisms to regulate these activities. finally, i welcome the start of the interinstitutional negotiations on the legislative package comprising a general data protection regulation and a directive on general guidelines.
in writing. the data protection regulation and the data protection directive are necessary to protect the fundamental rights of individuals. the issue is certainly a sensitive one, as it involves the reconciliation of conflicting needs, such as security and the protection of personal data. i have decided to give my negative opinion because during the negotiations not all the concerns raised by my political group were shared and i consider the final text to be far from a desirable outcome.
in writing. ‒ my vote against is based on the fact that not enough has been done to safeguard the fundamental rights of european citizens following the revelations about mass surveillance activities by us intelligence services. it is important to ensure that all data transfers to the usa are subject to an effective level of protection equivalent to that guaranteed within the eu. i hope that the european commission will consider possible alternatives to the safe harbour. i am convinced that a common eu strategy must be formulated as soon as possible in order to ensure greater cyber independence for our continent, greater respect for privacy and, above all, democratic and effective control of intelligence activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the text rightly denounces a mad mass surveillance in which every citizen is treated as a potential suspect.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the follow-up to the european parliament resolution on the mass electronic surveillance of union citizens because i believe that we must do more to protect european citizens from all forms of mass surveillance by intelligence agencies. it is clear that mass surveillance is widespread, used indiscriminately and outside any legal control. we call on the member states to take all necessary measures to regain the trust of the public, which has been lost as a result of the revelations by edward snowden. in addition, in the face of the safe harbour ruling of the court of justice (which invalidated the commission's decision that the us ensures an adequate level of protection for personal data transferred from the eu), it is essential that the eu finds an alternative to the safe harbour regime and provides an even more robust framework for the protection of personal data.
in writing. ‒ given the governance of the european institutions, which is seriously lacking in democracy, transparency and the principle of subsidiarity, and also taking into account the progressive reduction of the sovereignty of the member states, which is being done on the 'recommendation' of europe, my vote on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies is negative.
in writing. ‒ the final vote on the econ report on the implementation of the priorities of the so-called 'european semester' can only be negative. certainly, some of the issues raised are important, but the text does not leave room for many objections to a governance that is absolutely not transparent, not democratic and does not take into account the principle of subsidiarity. if we have procedures such as the european semester and continuous interference by brussels in the day-to-day affairs of the member states today, we owe it to the epp+s&d associativism which has seen the adoption of legislation over the years which has progressively reduced the sovereignty of our member states. we cannot therefore accept a document which, in any event, endorses the concept of 'recommendations' which every year leave europe with less and less room for manoeuvre for the member states, both technically and politically.
in writing. ‒ today i voted against the motion for a resolution on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies: implementation of the priorities for 2015. although economic recovery is finally beginning to take shape, its foundations are still very fragile due to the many structural weaknesses of the european union and regional economic differences. this can result in uneven growth and poor international competitiveness. therefore, a strong focus should be placed on developing effective instruments to support economic growth, such as the promotion of investment, the implementation of structural reforms in the product, service and labour markets, fiscal responsibility and the improvement of employment policy. these growth drivers, also in the context of achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, are essential to pursue the overall objective of making the eu more competitive globally, without weakening the protection of workers or undermining the european social model. unfortunately, the text of the proposal contains only weak measures and i have therefore voted against it.
in writing. ‒ our numerous proposals for a revision of this procedure were largely rejected by the final compromise as being incompatible with the report's basic approach of defending the commission's neoliberal strategy, based on austerity, structural reforms and liberalisation, to the extreme. we have tried to improve the text as much as possible, supporting the inclusion of references to the social aspects, which do not, however, change the substance of the report's underlying message. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i felt i had to abstain on the report as i have several concerns about the three main pillars of 2015: the coordinated re-launch of investment, a renewed commitment to structural reforms and the pursuit of fiscal responsibility. in fact, despite these strategies, economic recovery is still slow, especially given its fragile foundations. in addition, unemployment rates remain high in most member states and the situation of young people is a matter of concern. i believe that increasing investment and reforming national labour markets are the key measures to be taken to give a boost to the economy, which is still unfortunately hit by the crisis, achieving the only desirable objective: increase employment rates.
in writing. ‒ the european semester is considered to be an appropriate framework for policy coordination within the eu: however, a number of problems have been identified in various areas, especially in relation to the labour market. unfortunately, high unemployment rates persist in most member states: the country-specific recommendations (csrs), which should provide guidance to individual member states on the measures needed to boost growth and public finances, have been poorly implemented. the psfs are too simplified and new reforms do not automatically translate into stronger growth and better jobs. i therefore considered it appropriate to abstain because i consider it a priority to urgently address the problem of inadequate and obsolete policies to tackle longterm unemployment and also to improve policy coordination at national and european level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the european semester because i believe it is in line with the recent package presented by the ec for the implementation of the first phase of the five presidents' report, which aims to strengthen the european semester, complete emu and, ultimately, implement convergence between the euro area states. this convergence can realistically be achieved only if there is a real budgetary capacity in the euro area. it is therefore more necessary than ever to build an embryo of eu tax policy, even with permanent treaties. in addition, employment and social problems must be given priority in the european semester. unemployment, particularly longterm unemployment, is one of the main causes of social inequality. hence the need for efficient labour markets, capable of fostering a high level of employment on the one hand and of absorbing external shocks without causing further unemployment on the other. efficient and robust labour markets can contribute to a more inclusive eu and to a more flexible functioning of emu, notably within shared rules. they will contribute to the achievement of the final objective: the commission's proposal is to build a deeper emu, one which is fairer to its citizens, in other words one which develops and deepens its social dimension over time.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: implementation of the priorities for 2015. in order to boost the recovery, it is of paramount importance that economic policy aims at promoting investment, accelerating structural reforms and pursuing growth-oriented fiscal consolidation. there is a need to promote investment and improve employment policy, through the implementation of structural reforms relating to the labour market, the education system and financial services for smes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination. this report is the european parliament's assessment of the country-specific recommendations (csrs). csrs are a central part of the european semester, which in turn is an important tool for preventing economic crises, especially sovereign debt crises. the report highlights many crucial points which i believe will be central to future initiatives to address the economic challenges facing the european union. the text refers to the importance of continuing the process of structural reforms to promote growth and employment. we must pursue a coherent project of economic and monetary union which requires coordination between the economic and monetary policies of the member states, in line with the european union's framework of macroeconomic and fiscal surveillance. efforts must be concentrated on promoting investment and improving the employment policies of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because the text does not allow for legitimate criticism of a governance that is completely opaque, undemocratic and does not take into account the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. i voted against this highly contradictory report on the european semester, which will not reach the commission because it was rejected by the overwhelming majority of this parliament. the report has been totally inadequate in expressing a clear, consistent and common sense position on the controversial semester procedure, whereby the commission makes recommendations to the various member states on economic measures to be taken on the basis of what it considers to be the priorities for growth, namely austerity, structural reforms, labour market liberalisation and attracting private capital. unfortunately, parliament has missed yet another opportunity to denounce the utter failure of this rigid and senseless procedure for coordinating and controlling national economic policies and to call for a radical revision of it, allowing member states to decide democratically the policies needed to revive the economy and meet the needs of their citizens. in any case, i consider it absolutely positive that a politically impossible compromise has not been reached on a report whose basic message was to defend austerity and structural reforms, also because this confirms the impossibility of finding consensus on a single economic model between states with completely different economies and social preferences.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i consider it to be a statement of the need to fight for a change in european economic policy. the recipe for europe's emergence from the darkness of a crisis that has been gripping it for so long is to increase investment and abandon the path of austerity. this is a fact which is obvious to the european political class and which it cannot ignore. this report includes many elements for change: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. i voted against this report because the text does not in any way call into question the rules and economic instruments used over the last five years, despite the results which are clearly ineffective or even counterproductive. the blind belief that austerity and structural reforms are the only possible ways of boosting growth, increasing competitiveness and combating unemployment is still being insisted on. the report even calls for a strengthening of the semester procedure, since the commission believes that the failure of economic recovery is due solely to the weakness with which the member states have applied the 'recommendations' sent to them. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of subsidiarity to the taxation of energy products is a step in the right direction. the procedure for correcting the macroeconomic and social imbalances created by the single currency is vaguely mentioned in the text, but there is no emphasis on using it as a stimulus. i welcome the call for member states to introduce a national citizenship income, but this is not enough to make the report sustainable.
in writing. ‒ given that the eu, with its insane austerity policies, has helped to prolong the current economic crisis, causing the loss of thousands of jobs and long-term unemployment for many european citizens, i wanted to support this text which urgently calls on the council to take action to ensure that the long-term unemployed can be reintegrated into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls for the urgent adoption of the proposal for a council recommendation on the integration of the longterm unemployed into the labour market. i am in favour of this, although it must be borne in mind that this is an attempt to remedy a problem caused by the eu itself with its totally wrong and pro-cyclical economic policies (austerity)!
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on a council recommendation on the integration of the longterm unemployed into the labour market. in fact, as a result of the prolonged economic crisis, long-term unemployment has almost doubled since 2007, affecting over 12 million people, with very different percentages across the member states. in this context, proposals to step up the registration of the longterm unemployed with the employment services, to assess their needs, preferences and potential and to offer a personalised, balanced and comprehensible 'employment placement agreement' should be supported. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide for the possibility of a transitional period for the transition to a new system of social security schemes. the text highlights all these elements and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the report is to influence agreement on the issue of longterm unemployment, which will be discussed at the epsco (employment, social policy, health and consumers) council meeting on 7 december. the report stresses the serious impact of the economic and financial crisis on unemployment and the need for counselling tailored to the specific needs of each individual. i certainly voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the number of longterm unemployed in europe is now 12 million; before the financial crisis, it was half. alarming rates are recorded in italy, portugal, slovakia, croatia, spain and greece, with dramatic repercussions on the economic and social and daily lives of people. the lack of resources resulting from unemployment and the discouragement of not achieving one's aspirations often lead to a lack of interest in working life and to a growing distance from the world of work, which further aggravates the problem. to break this vicious circle, investment must first be made in the continuing training of disadvantaged people, to increase their skills and abilities and to facilitate their entry or re-entry into the world of work. but these efforts would be useless without public support for the economy, especially in those regions with high structural unemployment (including sicily, where the employment rate is below 50%). the active cooperation of all stakeholders is also needed, with an exchange of best practice at local level and between member states. only in this way will we be able to move closer to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and, above all, to our aspirations. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution because i remain doubtful that a council recommendation can be sufficient to remedy quickly the situation of the longterm unemployed and i encourage individual member states to take concrete measures. i would also like to emphasize that unemployment rates vary from one member state to another. europe can do very little to remedy this situation, but i urge the individual states, especially my country, italy, which remains one of the most in difficulty, to put in place concrete remedies and strategies for this problem which, unfortunately, affects a large part of the european population in this period of crisis.
in writing. ‒ to promote the inclusion of the long-term unemployed in the labour market, sustainable measures to promote the competitiveness of the economy should be promoted. in order to increase the supply of labour, new jobs must be created by promoting policies that encourage small and medium-sized enterprises to recruit.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this motion for a resolution is to emphasise the serious consequences of the economic and financial crisis and unemployment, the consequent risk of social exclusion and the difficulty of reintegration into society. the need for counselling tailored to the particular needs of each individual, the role of employment services and the need for specific training programmes in the labour field are emphasised. on the basis of these proposals, which seek to improve the employment crisis and its consequences, i am in favour of them.
in writing. long-term unemployment is a matter of grave concern: the figures show that the number of jobs has doubled since 2007: this condition affects half of the total unemployed, affecting over 12 million people, or 5% of the eu's working population. commissioner thyssen is giving new attention to how to deal with this grave social emergency, the message that the european parliament has sent with this resolution is very concrete and profound: the commission has also been active in the development of the european social fund, which is a european fund for the promotion of social inclusion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. due to the economic crisis, long-term unemployment has doubled since 2007 and now accounts for half of total unemployment. this has led to an increase in poverty, inequality and social exclusion, undermining efforts to achieve the main objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. i have decided to vote in favour of the proposal because the main components of the proposal are aimed at the vocational reintegration of the longterm unemployed. finally, i would like to remind you that the only way to reverse this trend is to return to investment, to create new jobs and to give as much support as possible to small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the engine of our economy.
in writing. ‒ in europe, the longterm unemployment rate varies considerably from one member state to another, ranging from 1.5% in austria to 19.5% in greece. the member states with the highest longterm unemployment rates are italy, portugal, slovakia, croatia, spain and greece. in 2014, over 60% of the long-term unemployed had been out of work for at least two consecutive years. this type of unemployment progressively removes people from the labour market due to the erosion of their skills and the loss of work rhythm. in addition, longterm unemployment has very high costs for society due to the waste of skills and the increase in social spending. this is undermining efforts to achieve the main objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, namely to achieve an employment rate of 75% for people aged 20-64. that is why i support the adoption of this motion for a resolution. the text of the council recommendation contains proposals such as the registration of the longterm unemployed with the employment services and the assessment of the individual needs of the longterm unemployed, which i consider to be very positive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the council recommendation on the integration of the longterm unemployed into the labour market because we cannot allow this human capital to be lost. it is up to europe to build the conditions for the relocation of these people through more effective active labour policies and training systems that exploit the potential of new and digital economies.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour, as there is still no harmonisation in the eu to regulate the use of drones in civil aviation. rules should be established that, while not imposing disproportionate burdens on smes and protecting data and privacy, address airworthiness, certification specifications, commercial and recreational uses, identity of the drone and the owner/operator, the authorisation of pilot training organisations, pilot training and licensing, operations, liabilities and insurance, data and privacy protection, geo-fencing and no-fly zones.
in writing. ‒ the text of the report is shared and balanced. i think it is important to protect the safety of citizens in the safe use of remotely piloted aircraft systems by civil aviation, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i vote for it. the report by the committee on transport seems to be complete. the question of the importance of developing the industry which produces this type of aircraft is also raised, as is the question of safety. there are, in fact, important problems relating to the respect of privacy and personal data of citizens connected to this issue. all in all, this text seems balanced. in the existing treaties it would be illusory to think that aircraft of this type can be governed only by national rules. clearly, especially for certain political groups, the issue of these aircraft is linked to the particular sensitivity of their use, including military use. it should be noted that, to date, standards for these devices exist or are being developed in austria, croatia, denmark, france, germany, italy, ireland, poland, the czech republic, spain and the united kingdom.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the safe use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas), commonly known as unmanned aerial vehicles (uavs), in civil aviation. this technology is widely applied to commercial use, providing significant benefits for different civilian uses, and may be further extended to other fields in the future. all member states carry out activities in this field, which are considered legal only if there is national legislation in this field. unfortunately, authorisations issued by one state are not generally mutually recognised in other countries and the absence of harmonised eu-wide regulation risks severely limiting the development of a european market for rpas systems. the resolution in question has highlighted the need for adequate and effective legislation in this area, and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to send a political signal to the european commission to establish harmonised regulations at european (and world) level for the use of drones in civil aviation. the text calls on the commission to introduce clear rules on the internal market and international trade for production, sale, purchase, trade and use. in particular, rules on airworthiness, certification specifications, commercial and recreational uses, identity of the drone and the owner/operator, licensing of pilot training organisations, pilot training and licensing, operations, liability and insurance, data and privacy protection, geo-fencing and no-fly zones are required.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because so-called drones are becoming widespread with the most diverse applications and a harmonised european regulation is therefore desirable. it is inconceivable that the same rules as for civil aircraft should apply to a 2.5 kg machine, as is the case in italy. it is inconceivable that a fast-growing sector should be stifled by too stringent rules and that investment should escape to neighbouring countries where the laws are more reasonable. action and coordination are needed to realise the great potential of this innovation for the benefit of enterprises and workers.
in writing. ‒ the last 15 years have seen a rapid growth in the use of 'remote piloted aircraft systems (rpas) ', commonly known as 'unmanned aerial vehicles (uavs) ' or drones. this technology, developed mainly for military purposes, is now also applied to commercial use: this means that the uses of rpas systems are widely varied and may be further extended to other fields in the future. operating activities are legal only where national legislation is in force. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market. the absence of regulation at european level could hinder the development of a european market for rpas systems. i therefore believe that this area urgently needs legislative harmonisation at european level, always with due regard for data protection and privacy.
in writing. ‒ the directive aims to regulate the use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas), known as uavs (unmanned aerial vehicles), in the field of civil aviation. europe is the leader in the use of rpas systems for the civil sector with 2 500 operators. there is currently no harmonisation between eu member states carrying out actions in the field of production or productive activities. the report calls for drones to be considered as types of aircraft and for the responsibility for their use to fall on operators. the main problems concern traffic management, the need to identify drones taking into account the characteristics of weight, operating range and speed and nature of use. i am voting in favour of the introduction of clearer rules on the internal market and international trade for the production, sale and purchase, trade and use of drones.
in writing. ‒ the deployment of rpas systems poses significant regulatory challenges, particularly in the areas of security, certification and privacy. the european parliament's objective is to set clear guidelines for the adoption of the aviation package expected by the end of 2015. it will be essential in regulating this sector to ensure an adequate level of protection for citizens, by promoting innovation and stimulating investment in order to create new opportunities and jobs. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential to define a proportionate regulatory framework at community level to enable the safe integration of rpas systems in european airspace.
in writing. ‒ today's vote has demonstrated the need for regulation of a sector that is growing, namely the remotely piloted aircraft systems. europe has a leading role in this area and legislation is needed to safeguard this primacy, to help businesses and encourage job creation, while protecting all citizens from possible risks.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs foster's report on the safe use of remotely piloted aircraft systems in civil aviation. the european legislation needs to be updated and more proportionate rules developed if the european industry is to become the world leader in the market for automated aircraft technology. the technology and standards must be enhanced to allow full integration into european airspace. today's vote is a concrete reaffirmation of our support for this sector, which is essential for the advancement of rpas and remote piloting aircraft systems and the growth of these services.
in writing. ‒ remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas) could be used to provide services of various kinds such as infrastructure monitoring (railways, dams and energy plants), natural disaster assessment, precision farming operations, media production and parcel delivery in isolated regions. the appropriate development of this sector could have a great potential to stimulate economic growth and create new jobs. however, the current national authorisations for the use of rpas are not subject to mutual recognition in the member states and this prevents the development of a european market for remotely piloted aircraft systems and related services. it is therefore necessary to propose european standards in order to ensure a favourable investment environment and to foster the development of a globally competitive european rpas industry. i welcome this motion for a resolution, but we must not forget to consider carefully the issues of security, privacy, data protection and civil liability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the safe use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas) in civil aviation, as i believe that a legislative update at european level in the field of civil aviation is necessary. the lack of common legislation means that each country regulates this area as it sees fit, without being able to follow precise guidelines. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the same time, however, we cannot forget the aspects closely linked to the use of these systems, such as the security of citizens and the guarantee of respect for privacy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the text deals with important security and privacy issues related to the use of remote piloting devices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the civil use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas), commonly known as drones. since there are two categories of use of rpas, namely professional and recreational use, i believe that the two categories should be regulated by different requirements within the same regulatory framework of the european union. the use of drones has grown rapidly over the past 15 years, and this technology, originally developed for military purposes, is now being applied to the delivery of commercial goods and services. i think it is important not only to regulate rpas systems according to their use and the possible risks, but also to provide the necessary legal certainty to the industry that is investing in this innovative sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that it is necessary to define guidelines for the commission in view of the presentation of the aviation package. with this document, which focuses on the use of drones, we ask for guarantees on the identity of the drones and the owner/operator, insurance, insurance liability, data protection and privacy, and no-fly zones.
in writing. ‒ the european commission launched an initiative in 2010 called 'europe, the world's number one tourist destination' to give new impetus to tourism with 21 actions. however, since may 2013 the commission has stopped drawing up the implementation plans and it is therefore difficult to assess the progress made now. the report shall require an implementation report to verify the actions undertaken, including the use of financial resources. one of the main problems with european legislation on tourism is that the resources allocated to it are really negligible and that most of the measures undertaken require funding from different funding programmes, which are not integrated with each other. we have the possibility of being able to count on a vast territory, where really nothing is missing: the european union has a long history of cooperation with the countries of central and eastern europe, including the former soviet union, the former soviet union, the former soviet union, the former soviet union, the former soviet union, the former soviet union, the former soviet union, the former soviet union, the former soviet union, the former soviet union, the former soviet union, the former soviet union, the former soviet union, the former soviet union, the former soviet union, the former soviet union, the former soviet union, the former soviet union, the former soviet union, the former soviet union, the former soviet union, the former soviet union, the former soviet union, the former soviet union, the former soviet union, the former soviet union, the present-day ussr, the former soviet union, the former soviet union, the present-day ussr, the present-day ussr, the present-day ussr, the present-day ussr, the present-day ussr, the former soviet union, the present-day ussr, the present-day ussr, the present-day ussr, the present-day ussr, the present-day ussr. the report is comprehensive and addresses all the problems and shortcomings in european tourism policy, making sound proposals that are easy to implement. for these and other reasons, my vote was in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour as it is about promoting europe as a tourist destination in the world, not just the individual countries, but by proposing transnational itineraries, enhancing the appreciation of coastal and maritime tourism and also cultural heritage. the idea is to offer quality tourism options (through the proposal of a european quality brand and particularly the national "made in" tourism). sustainable, social and responsible tourism is another very important tool to be promoted, especially by encouraging digitisation and the use of new technologies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a common strategy for improving the supply and management of tourism in europe, in order to safeguard and promote europe's vast cultural heritage. in this context, i believe it is important to support local and regional tourism growth, through the protection of the 'made in' brand and smes investing in digital to improve their services for consumers.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the report on 'new challenges and strategies for promoting tourism in europe', which i support, comes at a time when it is more important than ever to enhance the quantitative and qualitative impact of tourism on our continent. given that the tourism sector now contributes to more than 10% of eu gdp and is also a strong driver of growth and employment across the union, investment in this sector needs to be increased in a more strategic way. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation of the union's policy on the environment, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation of the union's policy on the environment. greater coordination between the different european tourist routes, as highlighted in the report, can help to overcome the constraints of seasonality.
in writing. ‒ tourism is an important source of development for the eu, but has been unfortunately neglected by the commission and the council. in the third millennium, tourism is an industry: a particular type of digital industry. over 95% of tourist trips in 2014 saw the use of the internet in destination selection, practical travel arrangements and travel-related purchases (tickets, flights, items). the tourism policy of the european countries is currently very different from one country to another and is still too often linked to a logic of competition between european countries: this leads to a loss of competitiveness towards low-cost destinations outside europe, which are the real threats to the turnover of the european tourism sector and which have learned to move skillfully in the global tourism market over the last decade, diverting significant eu tourist flows to their advantage. the european governance of tourism policy is therefore needed to guide and harmonise national strategies, not in the spirit of internal competition but in the spirit of cooperation. the diversity of landscapes, the historical and artistic offer and the cultural diversity of europe are the main reasons for travelling to the union: only a single european strategy can make the most of it.
in writing. - i vote for it. the proposed text aims to encourage member states to promote new tourist routes by upgrading disused areas, roads, railways, abandoned paths and old routes. it also calls for action to protect european monuments and sites at risk, in order to safeguard and promote cultural heritage and thus encourage cultural tourism. the report underlines that the diversity of european languages - official, co-official, minority and lesser-known - is the foundation on which europe's cultural heritage is built and is the key to sustainable and responsible tourism.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on new challenges and strategies for promoting tourism in europe. the european economy needs to constantly exploit high-potential assets, such as tourism. however, despite being the world's leading destination, europe is only vaguely aware of the potential that tourism can generate, traditionally relegated to a spontaneous resource when not secondary. this lack of awareness is evident when one considers the delay in the formation of a european consciousness and when one considers that, despite responding to many of the european priorities (sustainable growth, employment, digital single market and fairness), tourism has no dedicated line in the eu budget, but an incoherent breakdown into funds, pilot projects and preparatory actions. the report aims to meet this strategic need, with both tangible (the safeguarding and preservation of historic and monumental beauty) and intangible (the strengthening of european identity, multicultural understanding and sustainability). i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses the promotion of tourism in europe as a factor of economic growth and sustainable and responsible development. it focuses on the development of a clear european brand linked to quality indicators that is exportable and exported worldwide. the commission will continue to support the development of the european union's tourism sector, in particular through the development of the european tourism strategy. the promotion and the objective of developing a quality brand are underpinned by all the reports, for which i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ europe's landscape diversity and cultural richness make it the most popular destination for travellers from all over the world. the commission notes that the commission has not yet adopted a comprehensive strategy for the development of tourism in the union, but that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that tourism is not a one-off event. the commission has also taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the sector. the union must begin to confront the new frontiers represented by online tourism and the growing development of the sharing economy, which require action with a regulatory framework appropriate to the digital market, especially for the protection of personal data and the protection of consumers who must receive correct and non-misleading information from websites. i hope that in future legislative proposals, if any, a fair balance will be struck between the activities of tourism enterprises as such and those supporting the sector but which do not generate a real profit. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report because it identifies new areas of action for tourism development which meet the needs of a more informed traveller who is more inclined to use technology to organise his or her travels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mrs isabella de monte on the future of tourism in europe because i share the approach that your colleague has taken to this text. i have also had the opportunity to share some of my impressions with the tourism group, of which i am a member, and to follow this important programme document closely. there's one other aspect i don't agree with. it is true that this action plan continues the work begun during the last term of the then commissioner tajani, that the attraction of tourist flows becomes a great continental challenge (if we consider that asia is gaining market share here too), that in 2011 it was decided to launch the brand "europe", but the real challenge we win, in my opinion, by focusing on each one of us to take care of his own garden, that is, starting from small territories and their ability to make a system and attract tourists interested in living a unique experience more than seeing places. in this respect, the question ceases to be a problem of the individual enterprise and becomes a political problem to be solved before europe ceases to be competitive in this area as well.
in writing. ‒ europe has a rich cultural and gastronomic heritage: however, in order to compete at world level, it must face multiple challenges that threaten the tourism market, such as: firstly, the increasing competition from emerging and cheaper destinations from third countries, the impact of demographic changes, the increase in youth unemployment, changes in consumer behaviour, a raising of the quality standards of the offer and the development of the digitalisation process. an important first step is the implementation of a common european strategy in the tourism sector, which would involve the creation of an integrated offer of cultural products between member states, the responsible and sustainable management of available resources, investing in digitisation, responding better to consumer needs and harmonising taxation systems and regulations to protect travellers. i therefore agree with what mrs de monte said in her report, stressing the fundamental role played by tourism in europe as one of the main socioeconomic activities of the european union, with a far-reaching impact on economic growth as well as employment.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses the promotion of tourism in europe as a factor of economic growth and sustainable and responsible development. the ratification and implementation of the lisbon treaty gives the european union a greater role in the tourism sector and provides for the eu to support, integrate and coordinate the actions of the member states. the main themes of the report are: promoting europe as a tourist destination and creating a european brand to be exported worldwide; promoting pan-european and transnational tourism products; creating transnational thematic itineraries; redeveloping abandoned and disused areas; enhancing cultural heritage; creating a european quality brand; enhancing coastal and maritime tourism; completing the european charter for sustainable and responsible tourism. i am voting in favour because i consider the proposal interesting, particularly the aspects relating to sustainable tourism, the sharing economy and digitalisation, and following the adoption of an amendment by us which provides for the promotion of 'made in' brands in order to avoid the risk that a single european brand could penalise the many italian excellences, being the first less attractive.
in writing. ‒ the tourism industry in europe is facing a number of new challenges, including the digitalisation of distribution channels, increasing competition from emerging and cheaper third country destinations, changing consumer behaviour, the shift to an experience economy, the demand for quality customer services, the need to attract and retain qualified staff, demographic changes and seasonality. the european parliament's resolution, which i voted for, takes these challenges as its starting point and promotes the tourism industry through a series of actions, including: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and procedures.
in writing. ‒ the entry into force of the lisbon treaty has confirmed the importance of tourism for eu countries, but, like the economy as a whole, this sector is now suffering the serious effects of the crisis and is facing changes in consumer behaviour, with an increasing demand for high-quality services. the report on the new challenges for tourism, for which i voted in favour, pursues the ambitious objective of making europe a unified destination for tourists. the creation of a 'destination europe' brand, for example, would make it possible to avoid competition between the different european destinations and to better face the increasing competition at global level, by making use of the diversity of european landscapes, our extraordinary cultural wealth, our food and wine heritage, without forgetting religious and well-being tourism. quality, sustainability and greater accessibility of tourist services and destinations must therefore be at the heart of our tourism promotion policies.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it promotes europe as a tourist destination and aims to create a european brand to be exported worldwide; it also promotes pan-european and transnational tourism products through the creation of transnational thematic itineraries, the redevelopment of abandoned and disused areas, and the enhancement of cultural heritage. the resolution also welcomed the amendment by the m5s to protect national 'made in' brands, in order to avoid the risk that a single european brand could penalise the many italian excellences. the resolution also stresses the importance of sustainable, responsible and social tourism, in addition to the 'european charter for sustainable and responsible tourism'. in addition, it promotes coastal and maritime transport. the commission launched an initiative in 2010 entitled 'europe, the world's number one tourist destination' to give new impetus to tourism with 21 actions. the report therefore calls for an implementation report to verify the actions undertaken, including the use of financial resources. the resolution also calls for the development of networks of green routes covering rural areas, forests and smaller natural sites, complementing existing transport infrastructure networks with new eco-sustainable solutions.
in writing. ‒ tourism is a key and vital sector for the european economy. europe is famous throughout the world for its excellence in all fields, from culture to food and wine, from sport to all other recreational fields. we have a priceless heritage that is too often underestimated or undervalued. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on tourism and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on tourism.
in writing. europe, which has a very large number of excellent tourist destinations within its borders, must develop a comprehensive strategy to enhance its heritage and coordinate such a crucial sector for economic development. i would like to stress the importance of extending access to tourist services to those categories of citizens who are disabled and have motor difficulties: the removal of existing barriers - physical and digital - is a fundamental battle of rights and an important means of social inclusion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's own-initiative report on the new challenges and strategies for promoting tourism in europe, as tourism is indeed an economic activity of fundamental importance for the european union and for the development of the regions that have been most affected by the ongoing crisis. i am firmly convinced that, especially for some regions in southern europe, tourism can become the main economic activity and provide unparalleled growth and development potential. the crisis in the tourism sector has had a major impact on the quality of life of operators and smes in the sector. i therefore believe that we must continue to push for the european union not to lose its dominant position in the world tourism scene. in this respect, i join the call on the commission to report to parliament on the implementation of the measures implemented in the 2010 communication and the use of the structural funds and eu programmes in the tourism sector. finally, i hope that the role of the macro-regions in the implementation of tourism strategies will be taken into account, and in particular that of the adriatic and ionian regions, which offer a natural tourist, cultural and historical landing in the implementation of european tourism strategies.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs de monte's motion for a resolution. tourism is a strategic economic sector for us europeans and italians. in recent years the tourism industry has been facing increasing global competition from cheaper emerging countries that attract international tourists. to combat growing international competition and the negative effects of the crisis, european tourism needs greater interregional and crossborder cooperation, and this own-initiative report addresses a number of issues and strategies aimed at this objective. i would also like to highlight some of the paragraphs in the report which aim to strengthen european branding and marketing policies for sustainable and responsible tourism, in the context of an increasingly shared and digitalised economy.
in writing. ‒ tourism is a key sector of our economy, generating over 10% of the eu's gdp and employing some 20 million people, mainly young people. despite the economic crisis that erupted in 2008, europe remains the world's number one tourist destination. however, european tourism faces a number of challenges, starting with the need to innovate and constantly improve the quality of its services. the sector needs to adapt rapidly to the digital revolution, bearing in mind that more than 30% of travellers plan their itineraries online. tourism operators must be able to cope with the increasing competition from new, emerging and cheaper destinations. the tourism sector needs all the support of the european union and we must work to develop a model focused on quality, sustainability and the creation of highly specialised professionals. i believe that the report 'new challenges and strategies for promoting tourism in europe' can be a useful tool for encouraging joint action at continental level and ensuring that tourists enjoy the highest quality standards in the world. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report which calls on the european commission to present a comprehensive implementation report on the actions undertaken since 2013 including the financial resources made available by these policies. the so-called 'old continent' has always been one of the most popular tourist destinations for tourists from all over the world, and we as europeans have an obligation to take this into account, also from an economic point of view. the report therefore promotes the concept of brand europa on this basis: foreigners must go to europe, not just to one of its countries. we must promote the european brand in order to be stronger and more competitive. this is also the reason for the promotion of pan-european and transnational tourism products and a strong communication strategy that is up to date with the times we live in and therefore focuses on the maximum digitalisation of services, such as multimodal tickets, i.e. a single ticket covering several destinations. in this way the tourist will buy only one ticket for his european tour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the report calls on the member states to promote new tourist routes by redeveloping disused areas, roads, railways, abandoned paths and old routes, protecting endangered european monuments and sites in order to safeguard and promote cultural heritage and thus encourage tourism.
in writing. ‒ with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the importance of tourism has been officially recognised. tourism is one of the most important economic sectors for italy, and according to the most recent data from the world tourism organization, in 2013 it was the fifth most visited country in the world. the tourism industry as a whole would have contributed €147 billion, or 9.4% of the country's gdp, employing some 2.5 million people, or 10.9% of national employment. in recent years, two new forms of tourism have also been developing: tourism and fisheries. according to the fisheries league research centre, this type of 'blue' tourism is expected to increase by 3%. i therefore believe that the provision of tourism services must take account of the difficulties linked to climate change, the scarcity of water resources, the pressure on biodiversity and the risks that mass tourism poses to cultural heritage. in this regard, it is essential to encourage initiatives to promote sustainable tourism. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mrs de monte, which describes very well the central role of tourism in the european economy for the great growth potential it has, because it generates over 10% of the eu's gdp and contributes decisively to reducing unemployment. the tourism industry in europe is facing new challenges, the development of digital sales and distribution channels, the sharing economy, the demand for quality services and the need to attract visitors, not only for the artistic heritage, but also for the competence and qualifications of operators. in order to respond to the new needs of a market faced with very active and determined third country players, it is necessary that the commission continue to allocate resources to create a favourable environment for the development of tourism enterprises that can take full advantage of innovation and digital information technologies. we must insist that the commission and the council commit themselves to a genuine integrated european action plan and dedicated investments in all programmes erasmus+, social fund, creative europe, but also horizon 2020. the cuts in the 2016 budget for this sector are significant, and i expect a decisive change of course in the coming months.
in writing. ‒ tourism is one of europe's main economic activities and one of the areas with the greatest growth potential. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that tourism is a resource that must be exploited to its full potential. increasing resources and investment in infrastructure, simplifying rules and supporting sustainable tourism are key elements in structuring a long-term strategy that benefits the tourism sector and the european economy as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i welcome today's vote as tourism is a key sector for the growth of the european union's economy: it already generates more than 10% of european gdp and employs 13 million people, or 12% of the union's jobs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the union is the world's leading tourist destination, with a 52% market share, and it is precisely because of the importance of tourism to our economy that i think it is right that in the next financial programming a section should be included entirely devoted to the tourist economy: in this way, tourism would rightly be considered as an individual economic activity also in terms of budget. i would also like to stress how the diversity of european tourism should be encouraged and protected: the commission has already taken a number of measures to promote the development of tourism in the community.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which deals with the promotion of tourism in europe as a factor of economic growth and sustainable and responsible development. the lisbon treaty has given the european union a greater role in the tourism sector and provided for eu support, integration and coordination of member states' actions. however, since 2013 the commission has stopped drawing up the implementation plans and it is difficult to assess the progress made. the text therefore calls for a report on the verification of the measures taken, so as to clarify the use made of the financial resources. i am convinced that the resources allocated to tourism have been negligible and have not enabled the eu to achieve effectively the objective of developing and relaunching the sector. in the parliamentary committee, we of the m5s have obtained the promotion and protection of the 'made in' brands, in order to avoid penalizing the many italian excellences that have always attracted tourists. among the themes addressed, i would like to highlight the development of coastal and maritime tourism, the promotion of sustainable, responsible and social tourism, the sharing economy and digitalisation.
in writing. ‒ i believe that it is of fundamental importance for the safety of air transport that continuous and efficient monitoring of flights is ensured in any part of the world, so that the position of public transport aircraft is known at all times. i therefore voted in favour of calling on the commission to take all the necessary measures to develop a global satellite flight tracking system.
in writing. ‒ i support this paper on the development of satellite technology for the use of global flight tracking systems. the tragedies of air france flight af447 and malaysia airlines flight mh370 have highlighted the urgency of updating systems for the identification and tracking of public transport aircraft. a global monitoring system is therefore needed to ensure a rapid response in the event of an emergency, search or rescue. action is also needed to identify safer and less environmentally damaging routes. at present, only 30% of the global airspace is monitored, but it should be noted that technologies supported by satellite communications are already available (or under advanced study) and that the european satellite industry is able to play a central role in the development of these technological systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution supporting the commission's action to rapidly develop an efficient global flight tracking system that would enable air navigation service providers to establish the position of a public transport aircraft at any time, even in remote locations. the commission is invited to take the necessary measures with regard to the allocation of the radio spectrum band needed to support the future development of a global flight monitoring satellite system.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the allocation by the world radiocommunication conference, to be held in geneva from 2 to 27 november 2015 (wrc-15), of the radio spectrum band needed to support the future development of satellite technology for the deployment of global flight tracking systems. in fact, following recent tragedies in the field of civil aviation, the need has emerged for new systems to establish the position of a public transport aircraft at any time, even in remote locations. some global air traffic management (atm) surveillance systems, in addition to facilitating the location of aircraft, are not susceptible to being affected by an on-board power loss, nor are they disableable in flight. the report highlighted the importance of these mechanisms, which can make search and rescue operations and subsequent investigations more efficient. i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ global flight tracking systems currently cover only 30% of global air traffic and the implementation of such a system requires the international telecommunication union (itu) to provide a corresponding allocation of bandwidth for the necessary radio spectrum. the resolution calls on the commission to take action to ensure that this is done and to support the development of this technology by regulating it. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because the tragedies of air france flight af447 and malaysia airlines flight mh370 have highlighted the need to put in place new systems to determine the position of public transport aircraft at all times, even in remote locations. i also find it very important that through such global air traffic management surveillance systems are facilitated in determining the position of an aircraft in the event of abnormal behaviour, an emergency or an accident and, even more importantly, these systems could also be an important tool in increasing aviation safety and reducing infrastructure costs. finally, i fully support the commission's action to rapidly develop a global performance-based flight tracking system, which will enable air navigation service providers to determine the position of public transport aircraft at all times, even in remote locations.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the development of satellite technology for the use of global flight tracking systems because, in view of the tragedies involving air france flight af447 on 1 june 2009 and malaysia airlines flight mh370 on 8 march 2014, i consider it absolutely necessary to introduce new systems to establish the position of a public transport aircraft at any time, even in remote locations. i also believe that such surveillance systems can increase the level of safety, because they will make it easier to locate an aircraft in the event of abnormal behaviour, an emergency or an accident. it is also necessary to establish close cooperation between all stakeholders to ensure the establishment of effective and high-quality systems.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution is tabled on behalf of the tran committee and is linked to an oral question to the commission on the implementation of satellite technologies to ensure global traceability of flights. tracking systems currently cover only 30% of global air traffic. one of the best technologies currently available is called "satellite ads-b" (automatic dependent surveillace - broadcast) and has been identified as such by the icao (international civil aviation organization). however, the implementation of such a system requires the international telecommunication union (itu) to provide a corresponding allocation of bandwidth for the necessary radio spectrum. this will be discussed at the next world radiocommunication conference in 2015 (wrc15). the resolution calls on the commission to take action to ensure that this is done and to support the development of this technology by regulating it. i can only vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ in light of the tragedies of air france flight af447 in 2009 and malaysia airlines flight mh370 in 2014, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. i believe that the use of new global flight monitoring systems (ads-b technology) can make it much easier to locate an aircraft in the event of abnormal behaviour, an emergency or an accident. in addition, the use of such technologies would significantly improve the efficiency of search and rescue operations even in the most remote locations. i therefore hope that the european commission will be able to follow up rapidly the development of such systems, through close cooperation between all the parties concerned, in particular the world of industry and the world of specialised research centres.
president of the committee on culture and education. i would like to thank you for reminding us of this very important event, namely the opportunity for members of the european parliament - and i say this especially to new members of the european parliament, who may not have been aware of this initiative, which is now in its eighth edition - to vote for the winner of this european review of films by authors, films by particularly young filmmakers. i would like to tell you that this year there are three films of exceptional beauty, which have already been presented at a number of european festivals (karlovy vary, venice) and are being shot in these days, which are the "lux days", also in your cities. so it would be very interesting to take this projection to the next level. these are three films, all of which are very mature first works on topics of great interest to europe. i think it is very good that in strasbourg this prize will be given solemnly by president schulz to the winner who will be proclaimed by us. so i would really urge that we give a signal of attention to these young filmmakers, and also remind that the original prize of the lux prize consists of subtitling the three finalists in the 24 official european languages to facilitate circulation in europe and beyond.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too thank you for the opportunity to have this dialogue, because it is very important to try to understand what the future of this europe and of this governance can be. the european community has failed us because it has put profit at the centre of its economic ideology and not man, and therefore not the whole economic and social situation, which is falling apart. democracy is reacting violently and we are seeing how, in fact, it is trying to rebel against what is a technocratic imposition coming from the european commission and the member states, who only listen to the financial lobbies when they tell them to do a certain kind of reforms - i am thinking of the reforms in the labour market, which are further widening the social fork and the disparities: we have more and more rich and more and more poor or exploited. this is the situation at present, and i do not see any interesting reforms, for example in the tax area: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this neoliberal approach is not working and will collapse on you precisely because by taking away the economic and monetary sovereignty of countries, you are taking away the possibility of deciding their own future, of being able to make economic maneuvers that can really help to get out of the crisis. the commission's approach to financial deregulation is insane. we have a system that is on the verge of implosion and we're going forward with systems that have proven to be failures, like using financial products to boost the economy instead of seriously regulating finance, doing real structural banking reform that separates commercial banks from commercial banks. these are the reforms that should be made, but they are being put aside because there are lobbying interests which, i repeat, are widening the gap and when there are so many poor people complaining, i repeat, everything will fall on their heads and democracy will react violently. so we absolutely have to change the dogma to be able to put the man first and not the profit interest. that 's the problem . not profit, but the interests of society, the poor and the sick.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president dombrovskis, as you have mentioned and as the autumn forecasts of the european commission have told us, the economic recovery in the euro area and in the european union will continue to be modest. despite the fall in oil prices and the relatively weak value of the euro against other major international currencies, the positive growth rates we are seeing in our economies are able to offset the huge losses accumulated in the years of the crisis, but they are not able to substantially address the still existing investment deficit and generate a substantial increase in the employment rate. in view of this situation, it is essential to intervene with an appropriate policy mix, as my colleague maria joão rodrigues has already mentioned. the right monetary policy choices already made and recently announced are certainly going in the right direction. however, as governor draghi himself has repeatedly pointed out, monetary stimulus alone cannot solve the problem of anemic growth. fiscal discipline and structural reforms are necessary conditions for rebuilding investor confidence, attracting foreign investment and improving the competitiveness of our economic system vis-à-vis the rest of the world. however, relying solely on external demand to prop up our growth is extremely risky. history, as well as the difficulties of the brics in recent months, teaches us that economic systems become virtuous only if they are able to govern their own economic cycle without being overly dependent on fluctuations in world demand. this means working to revive all the components of domestic demand, both consumption and investment. some countries have shown their willingness to move in this direction by presenting their stability laws, and at european level much has already been done, i am thinking for example of the juncker plan, but much remains to be done. i hope therefore that the commission will show the right degree of ambition in preparing the next annual growth survey.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sometimes surprised to hear that the fundamental thing to do to revive our economy is structural reforms. yes, there's definitely some waste that needs to be removed and there's so much to do and operate. but it seems that we almost don't want to realize that there are policies, even international ones, that affect our economy: and we have seen this especially in this period, with the fact that the euro has fallen, with the fact that the energy bill has fallen, with the price of oil having fallen, and that has certainly given our economies a little bit of a boost. i do not know whether these structural reforms will give the european economy the chance to get back on its feet, as they say. what i do know is that having done them and having had austerity has created serious problems especially in terms of poverty, unemployment, the increase - especially in those countries which are more difficult from this point of view - of taxes, which then caused the failure of companies and therefore caused more unemployment. now, those people who have done these big structural and economic reforms, and who have told us and forced us to do them, now they tell us that maybe there will be an increase in the economy. it is curious, among other things, that the euro area countries will grow less than the non-euro area countries, and this should make the euro enthusiasts, those who believe that the single currency is the most important thing, reflect. i invite you to think about other issues as well. for example, sanctions on russia have created economic damage: maybe you should take them off. what do you think you are going to do about china wanting to become a market economy? beware, because if china has a market economy, that means we will have competition in certain sectors that will be devastating. and then, as far as ttip is concerned, some say it will help to increase our gross domestic product, but are we really sure? i am afraid, unfortunately, that this will be yet another fraud, given the strategies of the european union.
mr ribeiro, i am very happy if you will speak, but you were not on the list of speakers. if you want me to give you the floor, we have a minute more, so you can speak. but then you should speak to your group, because we have not been told. the 'catch-the-eye' procedure
there are many interventions. i am in a position to give the floor to everyone, but no one can go beyond a minute, otherwise no one will be able to speak.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to consolidate europe's economic recovery, further and decisive political commitment is needed. many member states face challenges such as high public and private debt and lack of investment, which continue to cause high unemployment and deteriorating social conditions. member states should work to ensure economic recovery by implementing responsible fiscal policies and by encouraging investment through the removal of funding barriers and the full implementation of the juncker plan. but investment and fiscal responsibility must be compatible with sustainable economic growth and the creation of quality jobs. the employment policy must be improved as a matter of priority in order to ensure greater social cohesion. the new half-year, in my view, must open with the employment and social issues, which, if addressed in the right way, can lead to a reduction in the poverty rate and an increase in domestic demand.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first of all thank you very much to the honourable members for their input, which i have duly noted, and we will continue the debate after next week. we will be presenting the annual growth survey (ags) in detail in a joint meeting of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) and the committee on employment and social affairs (empl), so i will be doing this together with commissioners thyssen and moscovici. the european semester package is specifically designed to shape discussions between eu institutions and in the member states, including with national parliaments. the various documents will therefore be the subject of debate with the council, the eurogroup and this parliament, and the ensuing common understanding will shape the remainder of the 2016 european semester. now let me come back to some of the specific questions which were raised during the debate. first, on strengthening the euro area dimension. some concerns were raised as regards the practicality of this approach, but here i must note that we are doing this, of course, while respecting the rules in the stability and growth pact, and our intention is to very clearly communicate this also in our documents. a number of questions were raised on strengthening the demand side of the economy, including by investment and consumption, and this was certainly among our priorities in the last european semester and will remain so in this european semester too. there is an obvious need to strengthen the demand side of the economy as well as the questions which were raised concerning strengthening the social dimension, reducing inequality, reducing poverty – these are important policy goals. as i said too in my introductory remarks, strengthening the social dimension within the european semester is one of the work directions we are pursuing, and we will continue to do so in the next european semester. some questions were raised on tax policy, including on tax fairness and the effectiveness of the tax system. here it must be said that the commission’s recommendation to the member states typically is to shift the tax burden away from labour – especially low paid labour – to other tax bases which are less detrimental to growth, such as property, consumption, capital. so this emphasis on actually reducing the tax burden – the tax wage on low paid labour – should also contribute to tax fairness. there were probably a number of other issues that were raised, but to give a rather more general summary, i think the approach we are now preparing in the next european semester in the annual growth survey is a balanced approach which takes into account different concerns, and we hope it will also ensure sustainable and balanced economic growth and strengthen job creation, something we need in europe very much.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the discussion of the commission statement on the future aviation package (2015/2933 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the best european airline of the last five years, according to skytrax, is not from a member state, but turkish airlines. the world is changing and air routes are increasingly moving from our continent to asia, via the middle east. in fact, if we look around, the largest airlines, in terms of passenger volume, are emirates, qatar airways, etihad and turkish airlines. we cannot but acknowledge the failure of european strategies and policies, which include an increasingly massive presence of capital from third countries in our industry. i am referring, for example, to what has happened in italy with the sale of a large part of the capital of alitalia, our now former flag carrier, to etihad, which was, by the way, sold to us as a great success of the renzi government, to make up for the many shortcomings and mismanagement of the past years. but what is the result? a weak, non-competitive industry, disoriented by the lack of planning at the level of flows, hubs and local connectivity. we wonder at this point what the commission intends to do: the european union is the only country in the world which has a policy of protecting its citizens from the dangers of the environment.
i would like to greet the large audience and remind them that there is no distraction from the members: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a decision on the issue of the safety of aircraft in the community. then the chamber will be full shortly, because today is voting day.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is very important that we have an aviation package in the near future which identifies the challenges facing the sector and which is intended to strengthen airlines and airports. in view of the expected increase in traffic and the competitive pressure on european ports, an effort by the council is needed to get the proposal for a regulation on the allocation of airport slots approved as soon as possible. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the single european sky and its implementation in the aviation package, in order to ensure the optimal use of airspace and to meet the needs of all users. the positive impact of this package will also affect the tourist industry, as it will make travel planning easier. liberalisation must not, however, be at the expense of social and safety standards, given the recent events which should not be forgotten too quickly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european aviation sector is facing many challenges, risks and changes, and that is why we expect the european commission to come up with an ambitious aviation package based on the concepts of sustainability and competitiveness. the impact of aviation on the climate can no longer be ignored if we consider that the transport sector is the second largest emitter of greenhouse gases and that the international civil aviation organization has been specifically called upon to work towards a drastic reduction of emissions by 2016. i therefore hope that the commission's package will include solutions to reduce co2 emissions, as called for by cop21, and that it will give priority to the development of biofuels for aviation that can reduce co2, the environmentally friendly development of airport terminals and new commercial models such as the issuing of integrated tickets. but i think the commission must also do a lot of work on the competitiveness of the sector by putting in place measures to strengthen the structure of european airlines and to encourage member states to improve the infrastructure of eu airports, in order to enable the sector to compete internationally under favourable conditions.
i have received seven motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure at the end of the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 11 november, at 7 p.m. i would remind all members that we are coming to the end of the ninth edition of the lux prize, the european parliament's film prize, which awards the three best films by authors to promote european film production. all the films that made it to the final mediterranean, urok and mustang are subtitled in all the languages of the european union. the prize will be awarded by the european parliamentarians, so i invite you all to see the three films and to vote by 23 november, because the award ceremony will be held on the 24th. i would also like to inform the public in the chamber and in this chamber that there will also be a vote by the citizens to give their opinion on these three films, so that the award will be followed by a recognition by the popular jury. to vote, you must visit the luxprize website and click on the "vote for your favorite film" banner. i think this is an interesting way of involving citizens in the promotion of european film production. so i say again: i hope that as many members as possible will vote before 23 november. i say this as the person in charge of the lux prize, which is why there is so much participation. the commission has already announced the vote at the beginning of the sitting and mr costa has added further information. i think it's really important that all of you participate in choosing the movie that you think is best. i repeat: these are the mediterranean film, the urok film and the mustang film. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. we must acknowledge the changes taking place in the world and shape our policies with a view to the future, not the past. the main and expanding air routes are increasingly those from our continent to the east. it is no coincidence that the airlines with the highest number of passengers in recent years have been emirates, qatar airways, etihad and turkish airlines. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'.
member of the commission, in writing– "declaration on article 16 of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the european council to establish a programme on interoperability solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens (isa²) – interoperability as a means for modernising the public sector" (report: carlos zorrinho (a8-0225/2015)) the commission regrets the insertion of a provision and of a recital which merely restates the applicable law on data protection in breach of basic principles of legislative quality and against the provision of rule 12 of the joint practical guide for the drafting of union legislation for the institutions. the commission shall not consider the drafting of article 16 as a precedent for any future piece of legislation.
the text is: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers and consumers in the event of the bankruptcy of an airline. i think that there is no need to explain what has happened and what risks lie ahead.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i had prepared another speech, but it is really based on some things i have heard here, for example when mr schmit talks about the end of roaming as if it were a newspaper of those italians who tell us stupid things and we know that it is not the real end of roaming, because it is a conditional, delayed end and conditional on studies of the impact on the profits of companies and communications. i hear commissioner oettinger - with the greatest respect for him - mention net neutrality, when that word, unless i have been struck by sudden blindness, is not in the text which was approved only two weeks ago. and then i hear colleagues in the house, in the corridors, in the committee and here, who, just two weeks after the tsm was adopted, are already saying that they realise that they have voted for a trojan horse. i wonder where they were when it came to voting on the amendments for a clear definition of net neutrality. so i'm quite concerned about whether we can trust the maintenance of a neutral and open internet and i'm very concerned about the presence of this zero-rating feature within the tsm package.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, both commission president juncker and high representative mogherini, as well as commissioner georgieva, have repeatedly stressed the importance of tackling migration at its root causes, and have also called on member states to do so. in fact, i have the feeling, to quote fabrizio de andré, that the european union is concerned, engaged, indignant, and then throws in the towel with great dignity, or perhaps without any dignity at all when we refer to official development assistance, which has been mentioned by the council and which is not actually being respected. they're commitments, they're words that don't follow through. now, speaking of this trust fund, we know that these are funds that are being diverted, that are being moved from development funds and so there is a risk of having a methadone effect with a drug addict, because we risk not treating anything at all, while we know very well that if we are going to seriously address what are the roots, what are the problems that lead to large migrations, we have to intervene at the root with serious programmes helping small and medium-sized businesses, helping education and health.
in writing. since the syrian crisis erupted five years ago, there are now some 12.2 million refugees. but syria is not the only country that millions of people are fleeing, and war is not the only reason for migration. the two trust funds for syria and africa will face many challenges: extreme poverty, weak institutions, lack of infrastructure, environmental stress. this is the problem. it is everyone's responsibility to help those societies that are unable to support their own citizens. because to stop the exodus, we don't need to build new walls and barriers: we need to invest in programmes that create job opportunities. we need to invest in training and in micro and small enterprises. it is essential that the member states contribute, but even more important is the proper management of these trust funds, so that the money is not wasted again in inefficiency and corruption.
in writing. it is a fact that daphne programmes play a key role in combating violence against women in the eu. the data we have demands that we not lower our attention. 35% of all women are victims of domestic and/or sexual violence by their partner or by strangers. the consequences are very serious and the numbers vary according to the country and culture to which one belongs. in italy, almost 7 million women aged 16 to 70 are reportedly victims of physical and sexual abuse, or 31.9%. the mezzogiorno regions almost always have lower figures than the national figure, although it is necessary to take into account the different factors that contribute to the willingness of women to respond and their awareness of the crime suffered. it is therefore likely that the underestimation of the phenomenon is particularly relevant for the southern regions. it is therefore important to continue along this path and the commission is invited to make a greater effort to promote and disseminate the results so as to enable the organisations concerned to combat violence against women.
in writing. we feel it is particularly appropriate to put this oral question to the european commission on the transition from the daphne programme to the rights, equality and citizenship programme. this parliament has repeatedly spoken in favour of the pursuit of gender equality and it is clear that no project can be truly effective unless it is supported by adequate funding. in this regard, it is most appropriate that the commission should specify what proportion of this new programme will be devoted to supporting gender equality and combating violence against women, both in terms of funding and more generally in terms of attention. it is important, also to ensure transparency for citizens, that the commitments made in our declarations are matched by concrete actions demonstrating the effective presence of gender equality among the priorities of this european legislature.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, every year in italy the svimez, the association for the development of the south, evaluates the growth figures. well, the picture is quite alarming: in 2015, the south had growth of over 40% below the average of the convergence regions of europe. absolute poverty in italy has more than doubled and the south has lost more than half a million jobs. the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume and market share developed over the period considered as follows: every year, when the report is published, the newspapers devote whole pages to it for a few days, but then it all goes away. these figures require an extraordinary effort on the part of the member states and local governments to seize all the opportunities offered by the european union, starting with the resources of the european fund for strategic investments. the eib should join this hopeful change of pace, in synergy with the juncker plan, the 2014-2020 operational programmes and public-private partnerships, to boost the confidence of local entrepreneurs and administrators and the creation of the right operational network, all enabling factors for investment.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the development of an ever more cohesive union, which is considered both the aim and the inspiration of the eu itself, the presentation of a programme which contributes to the harmonisation and modernisation of public administrations can only be welcomed. the isa2 programme fully realises the concept of union between member states by creating a system of interoperability at national and european level. the possibility of creating a system which would benefit not only the european and national administrations, identified as the direct beneficiaries of the programme in question, but above all the citizens, as the indirect recipients, cannot leave parliament indifferent. simplifying procedures, adapting and providing common fees, and sharing suggestions and ideas to improve the system at european level have always been the eu's ambition and objective. for these reasons i voted in favour of the isa2 programme, especially because it would enable a common system of administration to be established, with a high social impact.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of promoting and developing the principle of inter-operativeness as a good practice for concretely improving the efficiency of public administrations and the exchange of information between them and the european institutions. i have voted in favour of the text, recognising that electronic communications is a strategic area of fundamental importance for all the stakeholders.
in writing. ‒ the modernisation of european public administrations and the increase of their interoperability represent an important step towards completing the digital single market and effectively implementing the europe 2020 strategy. the support for today's vote is a further step towards enabling citizens, but also other entities such as small and medium-sized enterprises, to benefit fully from the potential offered by interoperable electronic services and the resulting reduction in administrative burdens and costs. it should be remembered that improved efficiency in public administration has a direct impact on the economic environment and is therefore essential to boost competitiveness, growth and employment. the priorities of the decision adopted today are therefore in this direction. the establishment of the isa2 programme for the period 2016-2020 aims to remove obstacles to interoperability by developing and promoting a comprehensive approach at union level. the actions designed to achieve this aim are aimed at facilitating cross-border or cross-sectoral electronic interaction between european public administrations and between them, on the one hand, and businesses and citizens, on the other. finally, we must remember how more efficient online public services increase the trust of citizens and businesses not only in digital services but also in institutions.
in writing. ‒ interoperability is about making the services that public administrations (pas) provide to citizens more efficient and effective: it cannot therefore be applied to obsolete systems. interoperability which must be promoted alongside free and open source software is not just a means of saving on software licences: it is, however, an important tool for raising the quality standards of security, responsiveness, system interconnection and accessibility, together with the spread of free and open source software. the new union programme should not be a mere continuation of the previous ida, idabc and isa but an improvement of them, by virtue of the progress achieved in the field of ict and the deepening of cross-border cooperation between pas.
in writing. - i vote for it. since 1995, through the inter-administration data exchange (ida) programme, the commission, together with the member states, has promoted solutions that enable data exchange in administrative contexts and between administrations and the eu institutions. isa2 (union programme on interoperability solutions and common frameworks for european public administrations, businesses and citizens) will be in force from 2016 to 2020 and has a financial allocation of eur 131 000 000.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on interoperability as a means of modernising european public administrations, businesses and citizens. as the report indicates, the union's strategic objective must be to define support programmes for structural investment that ensure the interoperability of systems and technologies used to ensure a higher quality of public services, while creating an environment of increased competitiveness for businesses and, consequently, greater satisfaction of citizens' needs. to achieve these goals, europe must step up its efforts to fully and permanently unlock the potential of data. it is essential to make digital public procurement effective by removing the many obstacles related to the lack of standardisation and interoperability of telematic platforms. through these actions, the union will therefore be able to improve the effectiveness, efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the services it offers to businesses and citizens.
in writing. ‒ the isa2 programme aims to help modernise public administrations so that they can provide interoperable digital services at national and european level. the m5s delegation tabled amendments, included in the compromise by the rapporteur, to encourage the full exploitation of the potential of e-democracy for european citizens and to ensure the widest and most inclusive participation in the programme, giving priority to those who have never received funding before. i fully share the idea of increasing the efficiency of public administrations for citizens and businesses and, as our amendments have been well received, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the success and completion of the internal market also rests on freedom of movement, which allows european citizens to work within the union and businesses to operate throughout europe. this requires strengthening the ability of users to interact electronically with member states' administrations and the interaction between public administrations in different countries of the union, which must be enabled to exchange information and cooperate in order to ensure efficient cross-border public services. the european commission had already launched several programmes in the mid-1990s to facilitate the process of modernising public administrations: ehealth, as well as e-invoicing and e-procurement, are concrete examples of interoperability. the european commission's proposal to establish the isa 2 (interoperability solutions for european public administrations) programme for the period 2016-2020 will build on the previous programme and facilitate cross-border electronic interaction between european public administrations and between them and businesses and citizens in an effective and efficient manner. the programme has been and will be an important and tangible instrument for the achievement of the digital single market and the flagship initiative 'digital agenda'. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the measure under consideration. the resolution welcomes the commission's isa2 programme and is in line with the initiatives contributing to the modernisation of european public administrations. interoperability is increasingly enhancing the potential quality of public services, creating a context of increased competitiveness for businesses and better meeting the needs of citizens, thus proving a valuable ally of the european strategy for growth and jobs. the ep suggests that greater emphasis should be placed on the economic and social ownership of the programme. in particular, it proposes to develop a single window for the exchange of good practice, to pay attention to the protection of privacy, to simplify procedures and to encourage cooperative solutions involving public administrations from different member states and also sectors other than the public sector. the ep also stressed the need to calibrate the evaluation of the success of the programme on the basis of its impact and the satisfaction of the needs of citizens and businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because i think it can improve the system compared to the current situation. in particular, the inclusion of businesses and citizens among the target groups of the isa 2 programme marks significant progress and encourages the commission to determine the implementation and evaluation criteria to be applied. i personally find it very interesting that this decision has the capacity to modernise the public sector by adapting it more effectively and efficiently to the needs of civil society. the isa 2 programme is perfectly integrated with other initiatives which contribute to the modernisation of european public administrations and the rapporteur fully agrees with me that three main points are of fundamental importance, in addition to the others: the development of a common semantics linking public administrations, the creation of a directory of solutions and standards and the protection of privacy and security.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report presented, as it proposes to renew the existing programme on interoperability between public administration, business and citizens, through the modernisation of technological tools. the interoperability of public administrations enhances the potential quantity of public services by creating a more competitive environment for businesses, ensuring benefits for european citizens and the consolidation of the digital single market. in particular, i believe that this programme can help to bridge the digital divide between member states' public administrations and to facilitate the exchange of information through enhanced cross-border cooperation, while safeguarding the protection of personal data. in addition, the creation of new common public services will bring significant efficiency and cost savings through the enhancement of operational processes and technological infrastructures.
in writing. ‒ the isa2 programme, which follows on from the first isa programme, aims to help modernise public administrations so that they can provide interoperable digital services at national and european level. isa2 marks the beginning of a new phase that enables efficient and effective interaction with citizens and businesses and enables the exchange of data between the various administrative contexts and between the administrations of the european union. the report includes the following points: development of a common semantics linking public administrations to each other and to other sectors (common frameworks); creation of a register of solutions and standards that can be used directly by administrations or integrated into new projects; development of a single point of contact for the exchange of good practice (joinup platform); the protection of privacy and security for administrations, businesses and citizens; simplification of procedures and potential extension of the scope of the programme; encouraging the development of cooperative solutions involving the administrations of two or more member states and assessing the success of the programme on the basis of its impact and the fulfilment of the needs of citizens and businesses. in a globalised world i can only vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ since 1995, with the launch of the inter-administration data exchange (ida) programme, the commission has promoted solutions that enable data exchange between administrations and eu institutions. interoperability enhances the quality of public services, creating a context of better satisfaction of citizens' needs and of increased competitiveness for businesses in line with the european strategy for growth and jobs. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the isa 2 programme contributes to the modernisation of european public administrations and the creation of a digital single market, taking into account technological progress as well as the new needs of administrations and civil society.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of agreeing the ep and council decision establishing a programme on interoperability solutions between public administrations as a tool to modernise the public sector because i believe it is important to promote efficient public services for european citizens through the use of new information technologies. interoperability in public administrations at cross-border level offers great results in the areas of crime prevention, environmental, tax, corporate and customs law, cross-border healthcare, management of european funds and public procurement: i therefore believe that a programme on the interoperability of european public administrations, managed by the commission, which ensures uniformity and convergence between the different member states, is essential. i welcome the launch of the isa 2 programme, which has been extended to smes and citizens, the end users of public services. the eu must promote digital public administrations, which use new technologies to communicate information and data across borders for efficient and quality services. i therefore support the call for a platform for the sharing of good practice and innovative solutions and i support all actions aimed at creating interoperability solutions that can be directly used by administrations. the sharing of data will, however, have to be done in compliance with the right to privacy and eu legislation on the protection of personal data.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a programme on interoperability solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens. the proposal provides for the establishment of a programme on interoperability solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens. isa 2 contributes to the modernisation of european public administrations by strengthening the competitiveness of enterprises. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the commission's proposal to establish a programme on interoperability solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens. since its launch in 1995, the commission, together with the member states, has consistently promoted solutions that enable data exchange between administrations and the institutions of the european union. we therefore support the continuation of this approach to interoperability solutions for european public administrations, but we also believe that new strategies are needed to take account of technological progress, the new needs of administrations and civil society, and the new opportunities offered by cloud computing. the inclusion of businesses and citizens among the target groups of the isa 2 programme also represents significant progress, especially from a demand-oriented perspective, i.e. the ability to modernise the public sector by adapting it more effectively and efficiently to the needs of civil society. the potential quality of public services will have to be further enhanced, creating a context of greater competitiveness for businesses and better satisfaction of citizens' needs. it is certainly a valuable ally in the european strategy for growth and jobs.
in writing. ‒ mr zorrinho's report welcomes the commission's proposal to establish a programme on interoperability solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens. the present decision maintains the approach adopted so far but marks the beginning of a new phase, which must take account of technological progress, the new needs of administrations and civil society and the new opportunities offered by cloud computing. interoperability will further enhance the potential quality of public services, creating a context of increased competitiveness for businesses and better satisfaction of citizens' needs, a valuable ally of the european strategy for growth and jobs. i believe that this is an important contribution to the achievement of the digital single market and to the implementation of an ambitious european digital agenda, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ as an italian politician and entrepreneur, as well as a member of the european parliament, my experience has made me aware of the importance of a constant and productive dialogue between the different sectors of public administration, both within the public administration and with the private sector. this must be done not only at european level but also between bodies at different levels to improve governance and the quality of representation of citizens and business needs; i have supported this cause on several occasions by proposing suggestions in the form of amendments to the dossiers of my colleagues. i therefore welcome and welcome the amendments to the draft report which have just been discussed in this house and i shall vote in favour of them.
in writing. ‒ isa 2 is the new programme that enables the exchange of data within administrative contexts and between public administrations and the european institutions. this programme provides for an improvement of the previous ida, idabc and isa instruments. this new instrument, which will have to take account of technological progress, will contribute to the modernisation of the public sector by adapting it more effectively and efficiently to the needs of civil society. interoperability solutions, by creating greater competitiveness for businesses, will be a valuable ally of the european strategy for growth and jobs. i welcome the commission's proposal because i believe that isa 2 can make an important contribution to the achievement of the digital single market and to the implementation of an ambitious european digital agenda.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on interoperability as a means of modernising european public administrations, as i believe that the quality of public services needs to be improved. the isa2 programme aims to develop a common semantics that will link public administrations with each other and with other sectors and enable all european citizens and businesses to benefit from interoperable electronic services. the report also provides improvements in privacy and security.
in writing. ‒ the report voted today welcomes the proposal to set up the new €131 million isa2 (interoperability solutions for european public administrations) programme, which will help modernise european public administrations and provide interoperable digital services. the isa2 programme will build on the success of its predecessor isa and support the development of digital solutions that will ensure cross-border or cross-sector electronic interaction between european public administrations, businesses and citizens. a harmonised european interoperability scenario is expected to lead to a higher level of competitiveness for european businesses and to better meet the needs of citizens. by using isa2 solutions, administrations will be able to ensure the interaction between the different it systems responsible for the provision of electronic services, saving time and costs and contributing to the creation of the digital single market. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the legislative resolution by which parliament approved the fourth interoperability programme, isa2, which has been supporting the development of e-government tools and services for 20 years, with a view to developing solutions for modernising public administrations to digital evolution. the objective of the programme is to develop interoperable solutions for a more effective, simplified and accessible digital administration at all levels through a common framework of cooperation and exchange between administrations themselves and dialogue with citizens and businesses, ensuring high levels of protection and efficient use of resources. i share the approach of the rapporteur, who insisted on the social and economic dimension of interoperability, so that the provision of public services is carried out in such a way as to prevent the digital divide, solutions are developed in an inclusive way through a community of users and suppliers and there is as much synergy as possible with other initiatives of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the main purpose of the electoral law is to lay down the principles and rules necessary for the election of the european parliament. the last council decision to this effect was taken in 1976. that is why it is essential and necessary to analyse and possibly adapt the procedures for electing the european parliament in the light of the evolution of the union itself. the possibility of relying on rules which reflect the present social structure is in fact fundamental to the respect of the rights of the european citizens themselves. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the basis of the results of the consultations with the member states. although in some respects the report which has been tabled meets the requirements set out above to a considerable extent, i have decided to abstain from voting in view of the role and function of the creation of european political parties. in view of the value and traditional importance of national parties in relation to the citizen, abstention from voting is intended to represent a possibility of constructive modification of the proposed reform.
in writing. ‒ to create a single pan-european constituency of 25 seats and to give the european union the task of being the sole electoral authority responsible for voting is madness. in practice, this means, among other things, preventing democratic control of a very large college. that is why i voted against the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal because the reform of the european electoral law represents an important step towards adapting the electoral act of 1976 to the present situation and making the democratic mechanism in europe more effective. since the union sets out only a few general guiding principles in this respect, the differences between the various national legislations on electoral procedures have for a long time weakened the notion of european citizenship, the concept of electoral equality and, above all, the role of active citizenship within the union. a move towards greater uniformity and harmonization at european level is therefore not only desirable but necessary. the european parliament, by adopting this own-initiative report, aims to increase the visibility of european political parties, mainly by making their affiliation more visible than national ones, and by making the european elections more transparent. the introduction of thresholds in the larger countries will also help to avoid the creation of micro-groups and thus excessive fragmentation. the decision to introduce a common deadline for the submission of electoral lists will make it possible to conduct more effective electoral campaigns and the fixing of a single deadline for the closure of polling stations, valid for all member states, will make the electoral result less influential.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that many of the proposals contained in it represent substantial progress towards the adoption of an eu electoral law. the implementation of a european electoral law would contribute decisively to increasing the interest in and the importance of european elections. i would like to express my disappointment, however, at the failure to approve the zip lists i proposed, which would have made a decisive step towards gender equality in the european elections. i find it very serious that the europe of 2015 is not yet ready to accept such a basic principle.
in writing. ‒ although the european elections renew the same parliament, which is the representative assembly of the european people, it is national laws that govern the election, referring only to some basic principles enshrined in eu law: the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the appointment of a new member of the commission. over the years, since 1976, there have been about ten attempts to improve the european electoral law, but the council has always vetoed them. although the improvements proposed by the agreed text are modest, the effort to make the elections 'more european' and more homogeneous is appreciated. in particular, gender balance, the introduction of transnational lists and increased visibility of european political parties are useful tools to overcome the erroneous habit of experiencing the european elections as an internal "poll" of national political forces or as a "vote of sentiment" and instead understand their nature as a fundamental democratic exercise of continental scope capable of shaping the political and economic course of the entire union. for the first time we have the opportunity to build a european electoral law: let's not waste it.
in writing. ‒ main aims of this proposal for reform of eu electoral law: - to formalise the nomination by european political parties of their candidates for the office of president of the commission. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the commission has failed to take appropriate measures to ensure that the union's financial interests are protected. - to achieve the establishment of a pan-european constituency of 25 seats, with an eu electoral authority. it will be impossible to ensure effective democratic control over a college of such size; - make the thresholds for the reduction of the barriers (between 3 and 5%) compulsory. we're up by a convincing vote against.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the house, i voted in favour of the report on the reform of the eu's electoral law, considering the proposals put forward by the rapporteurs at the bottom of the document to be valid. the effort to bring together the political forces as closely as possible in order to form a real 'european political consciousness' is both welcome and appropriate, since the process of democratic representation in europe is still in its infancy and requires the organization of balanced parliamentary representations consistent with the internal constitutional systems and the strengthening of government stability while avoiding fragmentation. the legislative role of the parliament has been strengthened and the formation of european political parties has given rise to a greater political awareness, but there are many open issues on which this reform will bring about important adjustments. i support the proposals to harmonize the minimum age for active and passive voters, to introduce mandatory thresholds recognised by the constitutions as a legitimate means of functioning, to introduce the right to vote for citizens outside the eu, and to introduce transparent procedures for the selection of candidates. i consider them to be real progress which increase the democratic dimension of the european elections.
in writing. ‒ the report is the first step in the revision of the european electoral law, which dates back to 1976. the proposal contains many improvements, including measures to harmonise the timing of elections in the various states, the possibility of introducing electronic voting, the possibility of voting for those who are temporarily abroad (soldiers and workers in general) and elements of greater transparency for those taking part in the electoral competition. but the report also has some critical aspects, in particular the call for the introduction of a european electoral district and a call for the role of european parties as promoters of a european political consciousness. i therefore opted for abstention.
in writing. ‒ the role of the european parliament has gradually changed since the 1979 elections and its powers have increased considerably. today, parliament is co-legislator with the council in most areas of the union's activities, especially since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which made members of the european parliament direct representatives of the citizens of the union rather than representatives of the peoples. that is why we need a reform of the electoral procedure for parliament which increases the democratic and supranational dimension of the european elections, so that they are no longer just the sum of national elections and that european political parties take on the role of real political parties, and are not the sum of national parties. in this way parliament itself will gain greater legitimacy and will be closer to the electorate. it is important that the harmonization should cover a number of rules, including the affixing of the logos and names of the european parties to the ballot papers as a sign of belonging to the same political family. i welcome the fact that the italian text adopted has incorporated the linguistic clarifications which distinguish the terms necessary for the establishment of electoral lists from the lists of voters entitled to vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. since 1976, eu citizens have been able to vote for their representatives in the european parliament by direct universal suffrage. however, the electoral procedures vary from one member state to another, thus contradicting the objective of creating a common europe where elected representatives act as 'representatives of the citizens of the union' (article 14 (2) teu). article 223 (1) tfeu provides for the possibility for the ep to reform the 1976 european elections act by making proposals on which the council will be called upon to give its opinion. the ep proposed strengthening the visibility of european political parties, introducing a common deadline of 12 weeks before the election cycle for the establishment of lists at national level, introducing a mandatory threshold for the allocation of seats, introducing a common deadline of 12 weeks for the appointment of the leaders of european political parties, introducing gender equality and introducing the possibility of electronic voting, via the internet or by mail. the ppe group also called for the council to set up a joint electoral college in which the lists would be headed by the candidates of each political family for the post of president of the european commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for reform of eu electoral law. the 1957 treaty of rome already provided for the possibility of developing a uniform electoral procedure based on direct universal suffrage, and i think it is necessary to strengthen the transnational dimension of european elections, since at the moment elections are based on national issues and therefore european political parties cannot sufficiently fulfil their constitutional mandate and contribute 'to forming a european political consciousness and to expressing the will of the citizens of the union'. the rapporteurs examined a wide range of potential reform measures that would enhance the democratic dimension of european elections by improving the functioning of the european parliament and the governance of the european union, all through enhancing the visibility of european political parties, introducing the right to vote for all union citizens residing outside the eu and introducing the possibility of electronic voting, among many measures that i support.
in writing. ‒ with the european elections coming up in 2019, the parliament and the council are working on the reform of the electoral law, which aims to increase the democratic dimension and legitimacy and strengthen the decision-making process in the european union. the european elections are currently governed largely by national laws and the procedures for nominating candidates vary considerably between member states. european citizens must be able to exercise their right to vote under similar conditions and in accordance with democratic principles. it is therefore appropriate to introduce transparency requirements and democratic standards in national electoral procedures in order to ensure good governance at european level and to increase the trust of the electorate in the eu institutions. i welcome the report on the reform proposal because it presents some effective measures to enhance the democratic dimension of european elections, such as strengthening the visibility of european political parties during election campaigns, introducing a homogeneous threshold aimed at reducing party fragmentation within parliament, strengthening the online electronic voting system and facilitating access to voting for european citizens residing in third countries. the reform will thus also strengthen the political dimension of european integration.
in writing. ‒ the report is the first step in the revision of the so-called european electoral law. the report amends a 1976 act. the main aspects are: harmonisation of the time limits for voting in the various member states (submission of lists, first votes, closure of polling stations) - the closing time is fixed at 9 p.m. on the last day of the election cycle, while maintaining the national specificity in the choice of day (s) of the week; the right to vote for citizens living outside the eu for work purposes; electronic voting at the discretion of the member states (this measure constitutes aid for disabled persons, soldiers on mission and workers abroad who are not forced to return/are not prevented from voting); strengthened transparency measures for parties participating in the electoral competition; the possibility to display the logo of the european family of reference next to the logo of the national parties, both on the ballot papers and on the electoral material; the commission is also proposing to establish a european electoral authority to improve the exchange of information during the pre-electoral and electoral phases. i shall abstain on the insertion of certain amendments, including those relating to a single european constituency alongside those already in place.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the reform of eu electoral law because i believe it is important to have a european electoral law before the 2019 elections in order to increase the transnational and democratic dimension of european elections, implement the concept of citizenship of the union and promote the direct representation of citizens in the ep. the ep called for an electoral law that would promote the visibility of european political parties in the national context, introduce a threshold for single constituencies and those with more than 26 seats, guarantee both pluralism and the functioning of parliament, allow citizens resident in third countries to vote by electronic voting and by mail, and strengthen the link between european elections and the appointment of the president of the commission by explicitly indicating the list of candidates. i consider the call for the principle of gender equality and the participation of women in institutional life to be a victory and i support the call for member states to present gender balanced electoral lists. i regret, however, that no reference was made to the obligation to have closed lists representing gender equality in the member states. i very much hope that the council will accept this proposal.
in writing. ‒ we express our vote in favour of this report which proposes a progressive harmonisation of the various national laws for the election of the european parliament. the measure, which is necessary to ensure that european elections are more transparent, fair and democratic, could give european visibility to elections to the european parliament and reduce the democratic legitimacy gap in the eu institutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a common date for finalising the lists and appointing the members of the board of directors; electoral lists giving equal visibility to national and european political parties; encouraging greater media coverage of european political parties; thresholds of between 3% and 5% for individual constituencies; gender equality in the composition of the lists. in the long term, it is also hoped that a european electoral authority will be set up, the voting age for active citizens will be set at 16 and elections will be held on the same days throughout europe.
in writing. ‒ with this resolution, the european parliament is finally succeeding in standardising an electoral procedure which until yesterday was dominated by national electoral rules. the very fact that the political distribution of seats is determined not by a single election but by 28 national elections is in clear contradiction to the very nature of the european parliament, the only genuine collegiate european body. european citizens should be able to exercise their right to vote in accordance with democratic principles, irrespective of their nationality. i voted in favour of this reform to make it possible to strengthen the democratic dimension of european elections, to strengthen citizenship of the union and to improve the functioning of parliament, making its work even more legitimate and effective.
in writing. ‒ although the european parliament is the only institution in the european institutional system democratically elected by european citizens, some data indicate that the problem of the democratic deficit is present and needs to be addressed (for example, during the last european elections in 2014, the turnout was 42.61%, a percentage that i hope will rise during the next elections). voter participation should be encouraged: i am therefore in favour of reforming the eu's electoral law and of a system that provides our citizens with clear and transparent information. i declare that i shall vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ article 223 (1) tfeu gives the european parliament the prerogative to initiate a reform of the legislative act on european elections by making proposals on which the council of the eu is called upon to decide unanimously. given that citizens of the union must be able to exercise their right to vote under similar conditions, in accordance with democratic principles and regardless of their origin, elections to the european parliament are still heavily dominated by national electoral rules. furthermore, election campaigns remain too focused on national issues. in this report, parliament intends to strengthen citizenship of the union, improve the efficiency of the european elections and ensure greater visibility of supranational political parties at european level, through proposals for reform of the current electoral law. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the reform of the eu electoral law as it aims to increase the democratic and supranational dimension of european elections and gives greater legitimacy to the work of the european parliament. the main objective of the report is to standardize the electoral procedure, which still differs between the various member states of the european union. the report introduces an obligation for political parties to observe democratic procedures and transparency in the selection of their candidates for the european elections. the reform also provides for the reinforcement of the visibility of european political parties, the introduction of a mandatory threshold for the allocation of seats, the introduction of the possibility of electronic voting, via the internet or by mail, and the establishment of a common deadline of 12 weeks before election day for the establishment of lists at national level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft reform of the eu's electoral law to make european elections more visible and interesting for european citizens. the legislation currently establishing common provisions on european elections dates back to 1976, when the role of the european parliament was profoundly different from that of today: the european parliament has become a co-legislator in almost all matters falling within the union's competence. however, the european elections in the 28 member states remain national elections, on national issues and personalities and not on european issues. the 2014 elections marked a breakthrough in this respect, introducing the head of each european party's list, which made the person nominated by their respective political forces as president of the european commission visible to citizens. the reform voted on today codifies this proposal and adds others aimed at strengthening the european dimension of electoral campaigns, such as the presence of the symbols of european parties on the ballot paper, precise deadlines for the submission of lists, gender equality on lists, the introduction of electronic and postal voting and the possibility of creating transnational constituencies to facilitate the vote of citizens residing in another country.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of discussing the often very unfavourable contractual conditions imposed by some european airlines on their employees. i am absolutely in favour of improving aviation legislation to facilitate the development of regional airports and to support the competitiveness of european airlines, which are facing increasingly ruthless competition from third countries. that is why i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ aviation is a major part of the eu economy, employing some 5.1 million workers and generating wealth equivalent to 2.4% of gdp. the resolution on aviation which we voted on today, and which i supported, highlights the key points for the development of this strategic sector. european aviation is a growth engine, in terms of productivity and employment, and it is positive that this report underlines the importance of the sustainable development of this sector through the involvement of all the actors involved (airlines, international and regional airports) but also through the research and innovation of the european aviation industry. the challenge of increasing international competition in this sector represents a rich opportunity which the european union must seize if it is to be able to increase its competitiveness on global markets.
in writing. - this resolution is positive. i voted yes. the issues at stake are many and the report adopted by the committee on transport seems to touch on all of them. the most important issue raised was the competitiveness of european airlines, which are competing for a global market with third country airlines that are subsidised by their respective member states (whereas in europe rules are more restrictive of 'state aid'). it addresses the issue of jobs lost in the many company crises and the unfavourable contractual conditions that some companies apply to their employees, taking advantage of the less stringent rules of the member states also for workers who work only or mainly in countries with regulations that ensure greater protection of their interests. it is clear that our delegation, although very critical of the european commission, understands very well that the subject of aviation cannot be regulated at the level of the member states alone. the commission has already made a number of proposals to improve the safety of aircraft.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the future aviation package. i believe that by presenting the package the commission should give a strong impetus to increase the sustainability of the european aviation sector and improve its competitiveness. the commission's package will therefore have to include solutions to reduce co2 emissions, the environmentally friendly development of airport terminals and new business models such as integrated ticketing. as regards the competitiveness of the sector, i hope that the commission will put in place measures to strengthen the structure of european airlines and to encourage member states to improve the infrastructure of eu airports, thus allowing the sector to compete internationally under favourable conditions. the report we voted on reflected these elements and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has announced the release of a new aviation legislative package aimed at strengthening the competitiveness of the european aviation sector, with reference to both passenger and freight mobility and, more generally, to all commercial and non-commercial activities. the political groups tabled a motion for a resolution on the future aviation package. the ppe, s&d and alde have tabled a joint resolution. the efdd group's proposal emphasises the need to focus on the safety aspects of aircraft and passengers, to implement sustainability in aviation, focusing on both new technologies and new fuels, in order to reduce the impact on the environment by reducing waste and investing in technological innovation. i voted against the text which has come to the plenary, that is to say the text tabled by the ppe, s&d and alde.
in writing. ‒ the european aviation system is a vital sector facing a global challenge today, with its leadership undermined by increasingly competitive emerging markets. we must ensure that this leadership is maintained. in 2013, 842 million europeans travelled within europe, with a range of positive effects on employment and the economy. the forecasts for air traffic in europe over the next few years see a significant increase in passenger and cargo numbers: eurocontrol expects an average annual growth in turnover of 2.2%. in the light of these figures, it is clear that aviation plays a crucial role in the economic growth of our union. to ensure that this favourable situation continues, the sector needs reforms that further enhance its competitiveness and productivity. but innovating the transport sector is not just about vehicles, infrastructure and profits. it means ensuring that passengers can travel in the safest and most environmentally friendly way possible, and it means ensuring that workers in the sector have reliable contracts that respect their rights. that is what we are trying to achieve. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i chose to vote in favor of the measure. the aviation legislative package, which the commission is expected to present by the end of 2015, should provide a much-needed boost to the revitalisation of the european aviation sector. the report calls on the commission to take account of certain critical issues in the context of a comprehensive approach to regulating safety, the environment and performance. the comments concern in particular measures to strengthen the competitiveness of eu air carriers and airports. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the commission is also proposing to strengthen aviation safety through a 'risk-based' approach, requiring the use of the latest satellite traffic surveillance technologies and best practices for aircraft safety management. thirdly, a comprehensive systemic approach across all aviation sectors is recommended through close cooperation between the commission, air navigation service providers, air carriers and airports. the ep also called for the role and financial allocation of the easa to be strengthened.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because, considering that airlines operate in a rapidly changing sector and provide many jobs, i believe it is necessary to encourage their development and innovation. i am also convinced that the negotiation of global aviation agreements with the eu's main trading partners, the strengthening and harmonisation of the safety chain by attracting and retaining competent and highly qualified personnel, and the full implementation of the sesar programme, which requires close cooperation with the commission, are the cornerstones of an innovation and development package needed to ensure greater safety for the citizens of the union. finally, i agree with the rapporteur who calls for greater efforts in the council to adopt the proposal for a regulation on the allocation of slots, so as to increase the efficiency of airports and ensure the orderly operation of air transport in europe, in a context where traffic is expected to double by 2030.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the future aviation package because i believe that it can be an effective tool for the relaunch of the european aviation sector, improving its competitiveness and defining a long-term strategy. i believe that proactive policies are needed to strengthen the capacity and connectivity of eu airports, which have unfortunately lost competitiveness compared to non-eu airports. in this respect, i believe that a review of regulation (ec) no 868/2004 is necessary, which will remove all the obstacles it provides for, in order to make it an effective instrument for safeguarding fair competition in the eu's external relations and its competitive position. i believe that the negotiation of global aviation agreements with the eu's main trading partners is a strategic objective and therefore i believe that it is appropriate to start such negotiations in order to promote global regulation with fair competition rules. i also believe it is of the utmost importance to ensure that easa continues to have a competitive financial envelope, which will ensure that it has flexible and effective tools to compete on a global scale.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has announced the release of a new aviation legislative package aimed at strengthening the competitiveness of the european aviation sector, with reference to both passenger and freight mobility and, more generally, to all commercial and non-commercial activities. our report stresses in particular the need to focus on the safety aspects of aircraft and passengers, to implement the sustainability of aviation, focusing on both new technologies and new fuels, in order to reduce the impact on the environment. the importance of investing in innovation, with reference to drones, digitalisation and the use of control and monitoring systems based on gps technologies, is highlighted. in many cases, action is needed to create conditions for fair competition. all too often, european funds invested in the modernisation and construction of new airport infrastructure are squandered, as a report by the court of auditors also shows. i therefore vote in favour of safer and more environmentally sustainable transport.
in writing. ‒ the commission intends to present an aviation package by the end of 2015 to identify the challenges facing the sector, boost its competitiveness and define a long-term strategy to strengthen airlines and airports. in view of the expected increase in traffic flows in 2030 and the competitive pressures facing european ports of call, i believe that it is necessary to call on the council to make a further effort to approve the proposal for a regulation on the allocation of airport slots as soon as possible. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe it is essential to promote the implementation of the single european sky, to give strategic value to foreign investment in the aviation sector and to exploit the positive impact of this package also for the tourist industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the future aviation package because i believe that, in view of the commission's legislative proposal, due by the end of 2015, it is appropriate to identify the multiple challenges that particularly affect european airlines and airports, both large and regional. the latter, in particular, play a very important role in the development of the territories, and of the peripheral ones specifically. the aviation sector is growing rapidly and it is therefore of paramount importance to implement the existing single european sky legislation efficiently, taking into account the needs of civil and commercial users. i therefore believe that the competitiveness and liberalisation of the air transport sector cannot be achieved without airlines respecting workers' rights, social standards and norms. in the airline industry, social dumping is very much in evidence, as many airlines use temporary workers, fake selfemployed workers and precarious contracts to increase competitiveness, to the detriment of workers' rights. the safety of airspace and airlines must necessarily be combined with the safety of working conditions, the necessary vocational training of staff and collective bargaining.
in writing. ‒ airline lobbyists thank the european parliament after today's vote on the aviation package. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the motion for a resolution on the aviation package. the package is badly needed to make the european aviation sector more sustainable and competitive, to strengthen european airlines, airports and the aviation industry, to ensure a level playing field in the global market and to define a long-term strategy for the european aviation sector.
in writing. ‒ given the importance of the sector, which contributed to 2.4% of european gdp in 2012 and directly employed 2.6 million people, we welcome the joint resolution on aviation. in addition, the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 28 june 2014 and entered into force on 1 january 2014. we therefore ask that the european parliament's position stress the importance of the sector as a factor of internal growth and industrial innovation. we call for a proactive policy by the european commission to ensure fair competition in the air travel market, with particular reference to competition from third countries with more lenient subsidies and state aid legislation. we are concerned about the introduction of new contractual practices and conditions which could harm the safety of passengers, and we call for greater social guarantees and more timely medical assessments for pilots. recalling that the aviation sector is not regulated by the world trade organisation, we call for a multilateral agreement, within the framework of the international civil aviation organisation, to establish common rules requiring emission reductions. the sector is responsible for 13% of european co2 emissions.
in writing. ‒ the aviation package should provide the necessary impetus to make the european aviation sector more sustainable and competitive by strengthening airlines, airports and the european aviation industry. this will ensure a level playing field on the global market and define a long-term strategy for the european aviation sector. aviation supports 5.1 million jobs and contributes €365 billion, equivalent to 2.4% of european gdp. despite the current economic crisis, global air transport is expected to grow by around 5% per year in the long term until 2030. the eu's common aviation policy also aims to make europe the safest airspace in the world. i therefore welcome this resolution.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the itre parliamentary committee, i am particularly attentive to the development needs of the industrial sector in europe. in particular, the aviation industry is a strategic pillar for economic growth (and hence for employment opportunities) as it is one of the most sensitive and easily adaptable to the current technological development. in addition, as a member of the envi committee and as a person who is sensitive to environmental issues, i am in favour of the measures that will be implemented to reduce the consumption and emissions of aircraft. i call on the house to join forces to achieve these objectives, starting with the vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the aviation sector makes a very large contribution to the eu economy, amounting to 2.4% of gdp. this is a fast-moving sector, set to grow by around 5% per year until 2030. the european commission intends to present, on 2 december, an aviation package to identify the challenges facing the aviation and related services sector. the joint motion for a resolution aims to urge the commission to propose policies to support and develop the european aviation industry. innovation, competitiveness, passenger rights, safety and the importance of clear and transparent rules on staff working conditions are all key issues that will need to be put at the heart of the eu executive's proposal. i hope, therefore, that my vote in favour today will help to define an ambitious european strategy, capable of facing the increasing competition from non-eu countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the future aviation package because i agree with the european parliament's decision to increase the sustainability of the european aviation sector and improve its competitiveness. the european union must work to promote innovation in the field of air traffic management, remotely piloted aircraft systems and alternative fuel solutions. the aviation package also brings improvements to the safety of air transport, which is of paramount importance to european citizens.
in writing. ‒ with a view to the commission presenting a package of proposals on aviation by the end of the year, parliament adopted a resolution on the challenges facing the sector, calling for a boost to its competitiveness. to this end, it is crucial to ensure fair competition in the international aviation sector and to ensure a level playing field for airlines and airports in the eu, in particular through agreements negotiated with the eu's main trading partners that also address unfair practices that distort the market, such as subsidies to third country airlines. the resolution stresses the need to press for the implementation of the single european sky rules, aimed at remedying the current fragmentation of european airspace and removing obstacles for our airlines. finally, i strongly support the importance of maintaining a high level of social standards and good working practices to protect workers in the sector and the safety of passengers. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the future of the multilateral system itself is at stake at the nairobi conference. a system that the european union and the united states are slowly killing with agreements like ttip, tpp and tsa. and that's the problem. the solution is still insisting on multilateralism, but it is not understood that if the multilateral system is not working, it must be reformed, not turned over in its ruins. we must focus on the poorest countries and help them, but we must also abandon the very ambiguous distinction between developing and developed countries: china and india, for example, that can put a man on the moon, but they call themselves developing countries and they take advantage of that. we must help the poorest to obtain from others the generous concessions we already offer and we must finally use the wto to find agreement on the rule of origin. these rules are best negotiated at multilateral level: we must therefore make sure that nairobi is a success, unless we have already chosen the path of agreements such as ttip and tisa, and in that case we have really lost everyone.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the european union will have to confirm its strong commitment to advancing the multilateral agenda at the next ministerial conference of the world trade organization. it will have to call for a rethinking of the wto, one that is able to overcome the difficulties and respond to the challenges of our times. europe must make every effort to conclude the important bilateral agreements currently being negotiated. but it must be remembered that the main objective of european trade policy must be to push for the creation of a system of multilateral agreements which will be the guiding principle of a fairer globalisation. the european union is now presenting itself at the nairobi summit with the trade facilitation agreement ratified. this first wto agreement provides for an innovative tailor-made approach to least-developed and developing countries, which will allow them to choose the timing and manner of implementation of obligations. i hope that a clear and effective strategy will be defined in nairobi to strengthen multilateral trade.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i too would like to thank the rapporteurs because this resolution expresses with realism, but also with force, the hope that we can finally achieve that decisive push at global level to tackle the pressing challenges for which concrete solutions must be found. in the face of the uncertainties and changes in our thinking about globalisation, which unfortunately is also a globalisation of evil - as we are experiencing with particular pain these days - the nairobi meeting is of even greater importance, because it could be an opportunity to bring out the positive side of this globalisation. a globalisation that strengthens the multilateral system, that aims to share fair and inclusive rules, that takes into account the needs and requirements of the least developed countries, and that focuses on economic development, of course, but also social, environmental and human development in a broad sense. for all these reasons, i really hope that a renewed and reinvigorated wto can be the right direction to take in nairobi: this is our priority, as expressed in the resolution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the doha round and the enormous preparatory work are a testimony to the delicate and difficult balance between the opportunity for wto members to pursue legitimate trade policy objectives and the need to give the necessary help to developing countries to meet their own necessary global trade standards. the bridge between these two realities is still very fragile and part of the leadership role must be played by the european union, which must facilitate the doha round with the aim of creating new trade opportunities and resolving the current imbalances in the system. the protection of multilateral trade rules must therefore be pursued and not the direct, direct compression which comes from bilateral agreements, even if they are useful. one way is certainly to respect, in the agricultural negotiations under way, article 20 of the marrakesh agreement on agriculture, which states that the principles of non-direct trade must be respected: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european environment agency. the objective is no longer elusive: inclusive and sustainable growth and lower trade costs through transparency and legal certainty.
the trade agreement between the european union and vietnam, which will be concluded on 2 december, is of fundamental importance for a number of reasons. the negotiations are particularly important, not only for trade relations between the two countries, but also more generally for the relationship between the european union and asean and for the community's trade policy. it is a strategic agreement for these reasons but also, as president lange has already mentioned, for the content and quality of the negotiations. it can therefore be a model for future agreements and for this very reason it is essential to monitor all aspects of it very closely, including those relating to the chapter on sustainable development, which is becoming increasingly important in the light of the european commission's trade strategy. that is why we have put the following question to the commission: i would like to thank the commissioner for the information she has shared with us today, because we believe it is essential that there should be improved monitoring of the respect for human rights in general with the countries with which we have agreements during the implementation phase and that there should be new models for impact assessment, with greater involvement of civil society in the negotiations. we are convinced that trade agreements are even more effective if they are a useful instrument, including improving the social situation of the parties. that is why we believe that agreements cannot be concluded which do not take this dimension into account.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the human rights situation in vietnam is appalling. power is firmly held by a single party that suppresses all individual and collective freedoms. freedom of association, assembly, expression are all systematically violated; torture is widespread and the government uses forced labour to produce goods for export. what about europe? he decides to reward this champion of democracy by signing a free trade agreement with us. an agreement that could be used as a lever to achieve genuine democratic reforms and defend the rights of vietnamese citizens. instead, we are once again making deals with dictators, and using european agriculture as a bargaining chip. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a decision on the matter. is this the value-based trade policy? no, commissioner, i do not think so.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i have listened to some of the speeches and i must say that i do not agree at all with the welcome accorded to this free trade agreement with vietnam. i think that when you talk about the love of this house for neoliberalism, you are putting a big ham in your face, even in the face of human rights violations, which are very serious in the case of vietnam, because we are talking about a country which is 175th in terms of freedom of the press, where new political parties cannot be founded, where there can be no free trade unions, where associations and non-governmental organizations are banned, where the government uses so-called thugs to repress human rights defenders. and when we say that through a free trade agreement we intend to improve those conditions, we are wrong, because an agreement that privileged human rights we had already concluded in 2012, an agreement of partnership and cooperation, with the result that human rights violations have worsened over time. i would therefore say that we should really turn the page when we talk about such agreements.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after two and a half years of intense negotiations, the european union and vietnam have reached an agreement in principle for the signing of the free trade agreement. the agreement will increase trade with one of asia's most dynamic economies: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. however, there remain many and strong concerns about human rights violations in the country. twenty-four independent organizations, mostly vietnamese civil society, some international, have prepared and released a report drawing attention to human rights violations in vietnam in 2014. the document includes abuses of freedom of religion or belief. the treaty will contain a binding clause under which it can be suspended in cases of serious violations of human rights. the commission must monitor the respect for human rights in the country and demand that the commitments made in the agreement be respected, so that there is a real and not just a mere pronounced improvement in human rights in vietnam.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the accession of ecuador to the agreement signed in 2012 between the european union, colombia and peru is a further step in improving trade relations with latin america. pending the formal conclusion of the ratification process, quito's participation in the free trade agreement extends the geographical scope of this important, cutting-edge treaty on the protection of social, labour and environmental standards. we therefore hope that the government will implement the action plan for the improvement of the conditions of its citizens as soon as possible. this decision also continues ecuador's successful path of special relations with the european union, in continuity with its previous inclusion in the heart of the generalized system of preferences. latin america is a strategic area for the european union, historically and culturally. we hope that ecuador will be a step on the road to achieving a balanced and ambitious agreement in the near future, including with the mercosur area.
member of the commission.– madam president, animal welfare is an important and sensitive issue very close to the hearts of millions of european union citizens. i, too, share the concern of many europeans for the proper treatment of animals. the current european union strategy for animal welfare adopted by the commission in 2012 is still in progress. the priority of the commission is therefore to work on completion of the remaining actions. furthermore, there is work to be done on the strengthening and enforcement of existing rules, on improving dialogue with stakeholders and on exploring ways to better include animal welfare considerations in our international activities. on enforcement: the european union has at its disposal a very extensive set of rules for animal welfare, covering many species, including broilers, laying hens and pigs; many activities, such as transport, slaughter and animal testing; and also products, for example, cat and dog food or seal products. we need to prioritise the critical issue of putting the existing rules into practice. learning from our experience over recent years, we must focus our efforts on tackling widespread non-compliance. against this background, i intend to work on improving compliance with a requirement to prohibit the routine tail docking of pigs and on the finalisation and adoption of guidelines on the welfare of pigs, as foreseen by the animal welfare strategy. secondly, i look forward to the outcomes of the ambitious pilot project on best practices on animal transport, supported by parliament. the project runs from 2015 to 2018. thirdly, i would like to mention the commission proposal to revise european union legislation on official controls, which has the potential to improve enforcement of animal welfare requirements, for example, through our proposals to establish european reference centres for animal welfare.on stakeholder dialogue: i would like to see this dialogue amongst the wide variety of actors concerned with animal welfare developed further. i intend to promote, or first attempt to see if there is an appetite in the community for, this kind of exercise. on the basis of the outcome, we could decide how to structure this dialogue for the future. finally, on international action: clearly the concern of european union citizens as regards the treatment of animals does not stop at our borders, and rightly so. we need to continue promoting our approach worldwide, also to protect the competitiveness of our livestock industry, which has made so many efforts on these issues in recent years. such efforts can help us to keep european union standards at a high level, despite the pressure that globalisation brings. i will explore, together with my colleagues responsible for trade and agriculture, how the potential market of animal welfare could be better valorised at global level. european union animal production must seek to profit from its advantageous position as a world leader on animal welfare to steer this trend and to further explore markets demanding ethical production. since the animal welfare strategy is about to end, we are evaluating further steps. in this case i would like to inform you that the commission will launch, in 2016, a new eurobarometer survey on animal welfare which will represent a useful source of information, especially in the areas of consumer awareness and education. we will be ready to evaluate our next steps after the eurobarometer survey has been analysed.
the committee on agriculture and rural development has repeatedly expressed its concern about the welfare of animals, which fortunately in europe enjoy the highest level of protection in the world. now that the 2012-2015 strategy is coming to an end, we are here to ask the commission what it intends to do about a possible new animal welfare strategy. however, before i ask for new rules, i would like to know whether and which actions of the current strategy have not yet been implemented and whether there is still work to be done for a full and uniform implementation of the existing strategy. i would also add that if we demand ever stricter rules for our farmers, without raising the question of reciprocity, we risk penalizing our production system and at the same time relocating some farms outside europe, thus substantially worsening the welfare of many animals.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, article 13 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, as we have already mentioned, provides that the welfare of animals must be approached with respect for and protection of sentient beings. unfortunately, we often neglect this approach because of hypocrisy, in my view, and because of too many exceptions. we are hypocritical for scientific reasons when we subject thousands of animals to practically useless experimentation - that is what science itself tells us. we are hypocrites for cultural reasons: i am referring, for example, to animals in circuses and the suffering we inflict on them with lives that are totally unnatural. we are hypocrites for religious reasons: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope, mr president, commissioner, that the new strategy, which is necessary, will put the welfare of animals as sentient beings at the centre of its action.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the animal welfare strategy 2012-2015 has had a positive impact on the measures and actions taken to improve the living conditions of animals. fortunately, attitudes are changing and attention and concern for animal welfare are increasing. in fact, public opinion is much more advanced than the institutions and we have a duty to listen to those who bring us cases and situations of perpetual violence and enormous cruelty. this year we have succeeded in passing the animal health regulation, in which we have clearly stated that health cannot be independent of the general conditions under which animals are kept: an animal that is abused can never be a healthy animal. we have taken a first big step and today we are asking the commission to continue in this direction. a strategy must be developed to address situations and instances of cruelty and violence, to be addressed and stopped: i am thinking of the faroese crime, which must end and soon.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the achievement of a high level of animal welfare is an essential element in protecting their health and ensuring their productivity. the european union's animal welfare and protection strategy 2012-2015 has certainly been a step forward, but much remains to be done. the commission is called upon to develop a new and more ambitious strategy for the protection of animal welfare in the period 2016-2020 by presenting a proposal for a simplified legislative framework: the current national animal welfare rules, due to their complexity and divergent interpretations, create legal uncertainty and a competitive disadvantage for producers. greater harmonisation at community level is therefore necessary. at the same time, the commission's desirable proposal must be geared to giving strong support to breeders who respect animal husbandry standards and good practices and who invest in better farming structures, and it should cover all captive and abandoned animals, including stray domestic animals, with the ultimate aim of finally achieving greater general animal welfare.
in writing. i regret to note the lack of ambition in the proposal. a number of principles must be clearly enshrined in both the treaties and in practice: full compliance by european and national legislation with article 18 tfeu, i.e. animals are to be regarded as sentient beings; the gradual but definitive abandonment of animal testing, the validity of which is disputed by a large number of scientific studies, in accordance with the requirements of 'stop vivisection'; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of animals in the event of a serious accident or serious injury. a concrete commitment to the closure of all dolphinariums where highly intelligent and sociable whales are kept for life; improving the conditions of use of animals for rural development, including through appropriate distribution of cap funds. as a member of the intergroup on animal welfare, i will try, together with the m5s europe delegation, to carry forward this civil struggle.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we have reached a point where we must recognize that the world is not changed by our words but by our example. if we really believe that the only beauty that can save this world are children, then we must make courageous choices, because the welfare, health and dignity of children must become the sole priority of this house, of the commission and of all those who, alone, can really help to protect children in every way possible. there are no choices that cannot and should not be made: every brave, innovative, new choice has to be made. children deserve every effort. we must deliver to them a world different from the one we find ourselves living in. we therefore support the report by mrs zuber, whom we thank for her cooperation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the honourable member for the constructive spirit and the excellent result achieved by this report. we are very positive about this, because the proposals are particularly interesting and very timely. one of all: the analysis of the phenomenon of exclusion. it is to be carried out by identifying and analysing a number of indicators, such as social exclusion, long-term unemployment, low level of education, poor housing conditions, level of discrimination, exposure to health risks and lack of access to healthcare. the tragic events of the last few weeks only confirm the importance of measures to reduce the inequalities and the conditions of cultural, social and economic isolation which are among the factors predisposing to the radicalisation of organized and criminal groups. cohesion policy and the 20% share of the european social fund resources, which by regulation must be devoted to the fight against poverty and the social inclusion of the most vulnerable, are of fundamental importance. we cannot allow austerity measures to affect key sectors such as education, training and housing and cohesion policy funds to be unused or to be used for projects of dubious utility. the quantity and quality of projects and the real application of the partnership principle are more important than ever if we do not want the objectives of economic, social and territorial cohesion to become mere declarations of intent which have no practical effect on our regions. i thank the rapporteur again.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the psr, the eff, the esf, the efsi: between 2009 and 2015, hundreds of entrepreneurs, fishermen, farmers, trainers were seduced, deceived and then abandoned by the authorities managing these programs and funds. what i am describing is a more or less apocalyptic scenario in my region, sicily, where some 400 farms are at risk of closure if the rdp funds for the period 2007-2013 are not used. i have therefore received many e-mails and requests from interested parties to obtain an extension of the funds in question and, together with my colleagues in the regional and national five star movement, i have tried to put as much pressure as possible on the national and regional authorities to request it. but the commission has the final say. i therefore ask the commission here, with the utmost humility, whether it is possible to obtain this extension, because it is vital for a sector as important as sicily.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for years china has been invading our market with cheap products, which have already sent thousands of european workers home. but now beijing is preparing the final attack and its accomplices are right here in strasbourg and brussels. if the commission confirms this, china will be recognized as a market economy by december 2016 and we will no longer be able to use the protections we have today to defend our products. but china is not a market economy. there is no legal obligation to recognise it as such and above all the choice cannot and must not be left to the commission alone, a non-elective body. do the citizens know that more than three million jobs in europe depend on the decisions of this body which no one elected? and above all, does the italian government realize that 700,000 jobs, in italy alone, depend on this decision? of course he knows. everyone knows it but everyone keeps quiet: not a tweet from our chairman of the board. in italy, no one speaks of it except deputy minister calenda. but i wouldn't be surprised if the political cabal found a way to silence him. maybe 700,000 jobs are of no interest to anyone.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we welcome some of your statements and hope that certain promises will be kept. we are concerned about the lack of binding targets at the level of individual member states, because we believe that if these 27% or 40% targets are not met, then there is no real responsibility on the part of individual member states. we therefore call for more ambitious and more binding targets. i would like to invite you and your colleagues to reflect on the link we all know between the geopolitics of energy and the geopolitics of terror. we are all, in some way, responsible for a fossil-based development model. we know perfectly well that we have fuelled a huge flow of wealth to certain countries that now have the means, the manpower and the economic resources to go and create what happened in paris just last week. in some ways, we are responsible for our future. so i believe that binding objectives and more ambitious objectives are the european way to peace and prosperity: as long as we depend on external resources, as long as we depend on oil and gas for our development, we will in some way, also feed the hand of terror that we find in our homes every day. and there's another topic that i don't think is addressed: there was talk of relaxing the stability pact as regards security investments. i hope that these investments are in real security, in intelligence on the ground, because in reality the phenomenon is taking the form of domestic terrorism. but, as the objectives of the energy transition are still ambitious and require investment, we believe that the free market and this economic model can actually have that long-term vision necessary for investment that is based on private investment. we therefore believe that a new deal, a new investment, a new quantitative easing is needed to finance what is the european energy transition, because the challenge is truly great and extraordinary.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-president šefčovič and his report present a very important and, i would say, unprecedented agenda of new developments. the commission is to be commended for having set the stage for the most ambitious project to review, update and simplify european legislation in this field. the basic principles of this design are, i believe, widely shared in this house. the european union must remain a leader in the transition to a low-carbon economy; this transition must be socially sustainable and focused on real benefits for consumers and for the development of european industry. in building the energy union, europe must continue to fully exercise its role as a geopolitical actor beyond its borders and, finally, and i will dwell on this, the energy union must be built on the foundations of sound governance. on this point - governance - we must continue to look ahead, we must think long term. the governance of the energy union can be built in a minimal way, i.e. as a regulator of member states' decisions in the form of the various national climate and energy plans, but it is much more far-sighted that the governance of the energy union is challenging and makes truly european choices, rather than being the sum of national determinations made in the different capitals of europe. and here we also find solutions to the problems that have been raised so far, because here, they can be addressed and solved with a continental vision. the commission is therefore to be congratulated, but it is also a direct and frank call for governance to be closer to europe and to our parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this parliament is talking about energy union, but we are not capable of monetary union, we are not capable of union on terrorism, we are not capable of union on immigration, and we want to have energy union, after the vast majority of you here have criticised and opposed putin and do not want russian gas to be transported to europe. but now putin is comfortable because he's going to fight isis, while here is a bunch of cowards who are afraid of isis. not to mention germany, which demands everything. did you know that 44% of germany's electricity is generated by coal? maybe because he likes volkswagen? but this europe is a europe that sucks. let us be ashamed of the way this europe is made! we have to be able to do things right. but here in parliament, there are only big hypocrites: you say one thing and do another.
in writing. i appreciate the commission's commitment to achieving the objectives of the energy union strategy. an integrated energy agenda needs to be developed which is not simply a summary of the positions of european capitals. the strengthening of acer is a first step in this direction. vice-president šefčovič reminded us that we need to improve both the 'software' and the 'hardware' of the internal energy market. massive infrastructure projects and investments are a key pillar of the plan, even in the face of the geopolitical challenges we face. investments which will also be possible thanks to increased flexibility and the efsi. stronger collaboration between the eu and member states in the evaluation of national energy plans, together with the annual energy union state of the art reports, will allow the strategy to be refined. citizens are also the agents of change. i particularly support the new deal with consumers to combat energy poverty and the challenge of less, more diversified and more efficient consumption of resources. cop21 is about to begin, a unique opportunity to achieve binding goals on the decarbonization of society at the global level: in this sense, a strong european leadership such as the one we are developing will be crucial to its success.
i want to inform you that during this debate we will not have blue cards. we also need to respect timing because at midday we have the lux prize.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that with this new directive on insurance distribution we are making a small but important step forward in strengthening the single market and deepening financial integration in the union. it was of course a difficult birth. a lot of work has gone into it and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the whole negotiating team and thank the commission for its contribution. and so i think the end result is positive and that it allows us to move towards the creation of a genuine single market for insurance products and reduce the costs of cross-border access, while at the same time identifying common principles to strengthen product transparency and consumer protection. the decision, as is well known, firstly extends the application of the directive to include direct distribution, and this is important in order to ensure regulatory consistency across all sales channels, and at the same time i believe that a fair balance is maintained between the application of the rules and proportionality for minor insurance products, if sold as an ancillary product. i also think that some of the achievements of parliament are important: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's insurance market is not distorted by the introduction of a single standardised document, which gives consumers all the relevant information about the product they are about to buy, and, above all, i would like to add this positive element of cross-selling, namely the possibility of guaranteeing a real choice for consumers by putting an end to tying practices in certain insurance sectors. so, all in all, this is a major achievement of which we should rightly be proud.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the report on the proposal for a directive on insurance intermediation is part of the wider review of all financial markets following the crisis. two elements are to be highlighted: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. this directive harmonizes the insurance market, but allows the national legislator to apply higher levels of protection. this double contribution will enable european citizens to benefit from rules which are comparable between the various countries but which also reflect the specific features of the insurance market in the member state. it is equally important to stress that insurance intermediaries already have a lot of bureaucratic responsibilities which impose burdens on business activity, without any increase in income in recent years. consumer protection and business sustainability are two elements that must therefore be balanced, also to allow for adequate claims management.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have repeatedly stated, including in this house, that the principle of consumer protection is a fundamental value. recent financial market imbalances have highlighted the divergences in western economic systems as a source of vulnerability. induced events often destabilise the european economic system, generating panic in markets and loss of consumer confidence. i therefore support the proposal for a directive which harmonises insurance regulation, makes the link with banking discipline more coherent and strengthens the resilience of the european financial system to self-induced and hetero-induced events. i join in the effort to increase the level of consumer protection, with reference to directives 92 of 2002 and 65 of 2014 on investment products, to which this regulation must be absolutely aligned. in fact, if i think of the r.c. auto italia and south italy sectors, whose prices are much higher than in other countries, on average 45% higher, i am more convinced that the objective of saving on insurance, combined with the mitigation of distortive factors in competition for the insurance sector, necessarily means a european strengthening of consumer protection in the insurance sector, with the creation of common standards throughout europe.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, tuesday 24 november 2015. we now move on to the announcement of the lux prize winner and its award. as the person responsible for the award, i thank all the members who contributed to the decision and all the citizens who took part in the vote for the special mention, which will be made on the basis of the consent of the citizens. the vote will take place at the end of the lux prize. (the sitting was suspended at 12 noon) (parliament met from 12 noon to 12.30 p.m. for the presentation of the lux prize) (the sitting was resumed at 12.30 p.m.)
we shall now proceed to the vote.
i thank mr ferreira for his proposal, but the rules must be changed. i appreciate your proposal, though.
let us now proceed to the explanations of vote.
in writing. ‒ the recent terrorist attacks in paris and the threats facing italy and all other european countries are proof that we need more security and more controls. schengen is not working and needs to be profoundly reformed. the text under voting is a mere technical update of the rules in force. that is why i did not intend to support him with my vote. i am convinced that the schengen agreement must be radically revised and that it can no longer be limited to minor updates.
in writing. ‒ the schengen convention represents a major step forward in the process of european integration, allowing the free movement of people within the union and the overcoming of the old national border management. today we are updating the convention because a number of acts forming part of the schengen acquis are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature, while others are obsolete because their content has been reworded by subsequent acts although they have not yet been repealed.
in writing. - i vote against it. the three reports, signed by mep moraes, respond to the need to update the rules in force by repealing a number of acts forming part of the schengen acquis. these legal texts are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts which have not, however, repealed them. on the substance, this can be seen as a positive measure, but also in view of the developments taking place, especially in recent months, and the firm will of our delegation to completely revise the schengen agreement, i voted against. we cannot limit ourselves to simple updates of schengen policies, but we must carry out a complete reform.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain acts in the area of freedom, security and justice. in order to improve the transparency of union law and to implement the strategy pursued by the union institutions, known as 'better lawmaking', it is necessary to delete from existing legislation certain acts which no longer have any reason to remain in force. in particular, there are certain rules contained in the schengen acquis which are no longer relevant because of their provisional nature or because their content has been transposed into subsequent acts. for reasons of legal certainty and clarity, those obsolete decisions should therefore be repealed. all these elements are contained in the report and that is why i have decided to vote in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ the end of the transitional period provided for in protocol 36 annexed to the treaty requires the repeal of obsolete acts, which are replaced by new ones adopted in accordance with the procedures described in the treaty of lisbon. i therefore voted for repeal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure. in the interinstitutional agreement of 16 december 2003, the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed on the need to reduce the volume of the union legislative corpus and to simplify it, including by repealing obsolete acts. on the basis of its examination, in line with its commitments under the interinstitutional agreement and its policy on regulatory adequacy, the commission has submitted a proposal to repeal, as obsolete, 11 decisions of the schengen executive committee because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts, and council regulation (ec) no 189/2008 of 18 february 2008 on technical testing of the second generation schengen information system (sis ii), which has exhausted its legal effect since the launch of sis ii in april 2013. the measures concerned by this proposal are obsolete, either because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts, or because they are no longer relevant due to their temporary nature. the repeal of these measures is therefore in line with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality it also contributes to improving the transparency of legislative production and to strengthening the concept of legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i share the objective of the proposed regulation, which is to repeal a number of obsolete union acts which are part of the schengen acquis. i also believe that improving the transparency of union law is an essential part of the 'better lawmaking' strategy implemented by the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ following the european commission's assessment of the schengen acquis, certain legislative acts have been declared obsolete because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by subsequent legislation. the schengen acquis is the body of legislation covering policies relating to external border controls, asylum, immigration and judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters. to improve the transparency and certainty of european law, it is essential to reduce the volume of the body of community legislation and to simplify it. i therefore support the report which proposes the repeal of 11 decisions adopted by the schengen executive committee which have become obsolete, and of the regulation governing the technical tests of the schengen information system, as that act has exhausted its legal effect with the implementation of the mechanism itself. the objective of the proposal cannot be effectively achieved by the member states alone, but at community level through measures in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. i support the proposal to amend this legislative act into a regulation so that all its elements are binding and can be applied directly in the member states.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the expiry of the transitional period provided for in protocol 36 on transitional provisions annexed to the treaties, the commission has carried out an evaluation of the schengen acquis and legal instruments in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. a number of acts have been identified as obsolete because their content was taken up by subsequent acts or because they were of a temporary nature. in the interinstitutional agreement of 16 december 2003, the parliament, the council and the commission agreed to reduce the volume and simplify union law, including by repealing obsolete acts. what are they ? 11 decisions of the schengen executive committee because their content has been taken up in subsequent acts, and council regulation (ec) no 189/2008 of 18 february 2008 on the testing of the second generation of the schengen information system (sis ii), which has exhausted its legal effects once sis ii became operational on 9 april 2013. the rapporteur also proposes to change the type of act from a decision to a regulation, which would be binding in all its elements and directly applicable in each member state. i have decided to vote in favour of the report because i agree with the rapporteur's reasons.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the abovementioned proposal for a decision on the abrogation of certain acts of the schengen acquis. i believe that this decision is a step forward in terms of transparency and efficiency, which will lead to better legislation and a renewed commitment to resolving the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ the vote on these three reports will be against as there is no need to revise schengen but to reform it completely.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision repealing certain acts in the area of freedom, security and justice, for which mr moraes is rapporteur. i believe that a number of acts forming part of the schengen acquis are now obsolete, temporary or have already been incorporated into subsequent legislation. the simplification and streamlining of eu regulation requires reducing the union's legislative body and making the bureaucracy more accessible not only to those involved in the work but also to european citizens who want to better understand eu legislation.
in writing. in line with the commitments made in the interinstitutional agreement on a regulatory policy, the european parliament, the council and the commission agree on the need to reduce the volume of the union's legislative body, simplifying and improving it. the council also adopted a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area ('the agreement') and the conclusion of the association agreement between the european economic area and the republic of moldova on trade in textile products. i decided to vote in favour because the content of some decisions of the schengen executive committee has been taken up in subsequent acts or because of their temporary nature.
in writing. ‒ improving the transparency of union law is an essential part of the 'better lawmaking' strategy pursued by the union institutions. it is therefore appropriate to delete from existing legislation acts which no longer have any reason to exist because they are considered obsolete because their content is reproduced in subsequent acts or because of their temporary nature. that is why i voted in favour of the report on the repeal of certain acts of the schengen acquis.
in writing. ‒ the issues at the heart of the current debates have led the eu institutions to review the schengen acquis and conclude that it needs to be simplified in order to better address issues relating to both migration and the terrorist threat. i am contributing to this work not only by renewing my commitment to work with my colleagues on this issue, but also by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the better regulation strategy was created to ensure greater transparency and legal certainty. it allows for the repeal of adopted eu acts which have exhausted all their effects, or which are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts. the text of this report proposes to repeal certain acts in the area of freedom, security and justice which have become obsolete because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts. i therefore decided to vote in favour of repealing these regulations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the repeal of certain acts of the schengen acquis because i agree with the decision of the european parliament and the council to update and simplify european union law and to delete a number of acts deemed to be obsolete. in particular, the report repeals 11 decisions of the schengen executive committee and regulation (ec) no 189/2008 of 18 february 2008.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote, parliament repeals 11 decisions of the schengen executive committee and council regulation (ec) no 189/2008 on the technical testing of the sis ii information system, a system that helps to increase security and facilitate free movement in the schengen area. these acts have become obsolete as their content has been taken up by subsequent acts. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe it is of fundamental importance to ensure transparency in the european legislative process. i share the 'better regulation' strategy developed by the european institutions and in particular the legislative simplification action put in place. a number of acts within the schengen acquis are now obsolete or simply no longer have any reason to exist as they were born as temporary rules. in other cases, the rules have been superseded by subsequent legislation. i therefore support the repeal of the whole body of acts which no longer have any reason to exist.
in writing. ‒ the recent terrorist attacks in paris and the threats facing italy and all other european countries are proof that we need more security and more controls. schengen is not working and needs to be profoundly reformed. the text under voting is a mere technical update of the rules in force. that is why i did not intend to support him with my vote. i am convinced that the schengen agreement must be radically revised and that it can no longer be limited to minor updates.
in writing. ‒ the free movement of people within the union is a major achievement of the european integration process. with this act updating the schengen convention, we intend to maintain the recognition of the value of that path but also to reduce the union's legislative body by repealing acts which are now obsolete having already been taken over by subsequent european agreements and conventions.
in writing. ‒ these three reports, signed by mep moraes, respond to the need to update the rules in force by repealing a number of acts forming part of the schengen acquis. these legal texts are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts which have not, however, repealed them. on the substance, this can be seen as a positive measure, but also in view of the developments taking place, especially in recent months, and the firm will of our delegation to completely revise the schengen agreement, i voted against. we cannot limit ourselves to simple updates of schengen policies, but we must carry out a complete reform.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision repealing certain acts in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the commission, in its assessment of the schengen acquis and of the legal instruments in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, has identified certain provisions which are now obsolete, either because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts or because of their merely provisional nature. it therefore proposes their repeal and the abolition of the agreement on cooperation in the fight against road traffic offences, which, incidentally, never even entered into force. the european institutions agree on the need to reduce and simplify the volume of the union's legislative body, including by repealing obsolete acts. this text proposes effective action in this regard and that is why i have decided to vote in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ following the end of the transitional period provided for in protocol 36 annexed to the treaty, the vote was on the repeal of obsolete acts, which were replaced by new ones adopted within the new institutional framework. the council also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the immediate release of all political prisoners.
in writing. ‒ the repeal of a number of acts of the schengen acquis relating to police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters is part of the european strategy 'better lawmaking', through which the commission intends to review existing legislation, improve it and make it more effective in achieving the political objectives that the union sets itself. this strategy also includes the repeal of decisions which have become obsolete over time because they are temporary or because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts, such as the regulation on the technical tests of the new sis ii information system, which has exhausted its legal effect following the entry into force of regulation (ec) no 189/2008 for that system. i therefore agree with the report voted in plenary today which repeals 11 decisions of the schengen executive committee and i agree with the rapporteur that it is appropriate to amend the above regulation in addition to the decisions in the original proposal, both for reasons of legal certainty and to ensure that it has immediate effect in all the member states. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted for the measure. in the interinstitutional agreement of 16 december 2003, the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed on the need to reduce the volume of the union legislative corpus and to simplify it, including by repealing obsolete acts. on the basis of its examination, and in line with its commitments under the interinstitutional agreement and its policy on regulatory adequacy, the commission has submitted a proposal to repeal, as obsolete, the decisions of the executive committee on the fight against drug trafficking and the police manual, the declaration of the executive committee on child abduction and council decision 2008/173/jha on the technical testing of the second generation schengen information system (sis ii). the european parliament proposed that the decision of the executive committee for the agreement on cooperation in the action against road traffic infringements be included in the list of acts repealed. the rationalization of the legislative acquis will help to improve the transparency of legislative production and to strengthen the concept of legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because the vote was a mere formal step in a larger design which is now almost fully realised. this is a fundamental legal point which it would be pointless to deny. on a practical level, it is the acceptance of a process that has been going on for decades now and which cannot be cancelled out by a group of terrorists.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on the proposal to repeal certain obsolete acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation. acts which no longer have any reason to be applied because of their temporary nature and their repeal or replacement in subsequent legislation should be deleted from the existing legislation. legislative acts concerning the organisation and cooperation of police and judicial forces in relation to operations to combat drug trafficking and to monitor the abduction of children have been the subject of legislation which is more recent than the decisions adopted by the schengen executive committee and which are therefore inappropriate and obsolete. it is therefore necessary to update the body of european union legislation, thereby ensuring greater transparency and clarity of community law in the field of police and judicial cooperation. in this connection, i support the proposal to amend this legislative act into a regulation, in order to ensure its direct and unavoidable application in national legal systems.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the expiry of the transitional period provided for in protocol 36 on transitional provisions annexed to the treaties, the commission has carried out an evaluation of the schengen acquis and legal instruments in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. a number of acts have been identified as obsolete because their content was taken up by subsequent acts or because they were of a temporary nature. in the agreement of 16 december 2003, the parliament, the council and the commission agreed to reduce the volume and simplify union law, including by repealing obsolete acts such as: decision of the executive committee sch/com-ex (93) 14 and (98) 52, declaration sch/com-ex (97) 13 rev 2 and council decision 2008/173/jha, on the technical testing of the second generation schengen information system (sis ii). as regards cooperation in the field of road traffic offences, the reason is that this agreement never entered into force. moreover, it cannot be considered as an internal schengen act as it was not only concluded between eu member states but also with two third countries (iceland and norway). for the reasons stated above, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the abovementioned proposal for a decision on the repeal of certain acts of the schengen acquis in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, the simplification of which would bring about a positive outcome to the commitments made in the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making.
in writing. ‒ the vote on these three reports will be against as there is no need to revise schengen but to reform it completely.
in writing. in the interinstitutional agreement of 16 december 2003, the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed on the need to reduce the volume of the union's legislative body and to simplify it, including by repealing obsolete acts. the council also adopted a regulation on the protection of the european communities' financial interests against fraud and other irregularities (oj l 186, 30.7.2001, p. in view of the provisions of the better regulation agreement, i have decided to vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ favourable to the report on the repeal of certain acts of the schengen acquis in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the commission has carried out an assessment of the schengen acquis and of the legal instruments in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, following which certain acts are therefore identified as no longer relevant. the objective of this regulation is to repeal those obsolete european union acts in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters which are part of the schengen acquis, as their content is taken up by subsequent acts even though they have not been repealed.
in writing. ‒ i reiterate my belief in the importance of simplifying the schengen acquis. in particular, i welcome the decisions taken in the field of police and judicial cooperation: the work of the libe committee, including missions by some of our colleagues to the areas most affected by the migration phenomenon (i am also referring to southern italy), has highlighted the need to focus on this particular aspect of border management policy. i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has carried out an evaluation of the schengen acquis and legal instruments in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. following this assessment, a number of regulatory acts were identified as obsolete because their content was taken up in subsequent acts. the report proposes the repeal of the following provisions: decision sch/com-ex (93) 14 (fight against drug trafficking); declaration sch/com-ex (97) 13 2a rev. (abduction of minors); and the following decisions are adopted: the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the community rules on the protection of the financial interests of the european communities. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. i am voting in favour of the abolition of these measures because it is in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain acts of the schengen acquis in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters because i consider the decisions of the executive committee sch/com-ex (93) 14 (combating drug trafficking) and (98) 52 (police manual), the statement of the executive committee sch/com-ex (97) 13 2a rev. (abduction of minors) and council decision 2008/173/jha of 18 february 2018 on the technical testing of the second generation schengen information system (sis ii) to be obsolete.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote, parliament abrogates certain acts of the schengen acquis in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters which have become obsolete. their content has been taken up in subsequent acts or has exhausted its legal effect. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ many legislative acts incorporated into the schengen acquis are now obsolete, in particular in the area of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. that is why i have spoken in favour of abolishing those unnecessary and outdated rules.
in writing. ‒ the moraes report analyses the repeal of certain acts in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the text is purely technical and aims to update the existing legislation by harmonising it. given that the recent attacks in paris have definitively demonstrated the failure of the schengen system, i would have preferred a more decisive intervention aimed at changing the agreement decisively. for these reasons i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this act allows us to repeal two additional acts to the schengen convention: the convention of 17 june 1998 on the withdrawal of driving licences (council act 98/c 216/01) and council framework decision 2008/978/jha on the european evidence order for the purpose of obtaining objects, documents and data to be used in criminal proceedings (erom), which are now largely superseded by the facts and by directive 2014/41/eu of the european parliament and of the council on the european investigation order (eio). since the erm would remain applicable only between two member states, it has lost its value as an instrument of cooperation in criminal matters and should be repealed in order to ensure linearity of law in this field, without prejudice to a transitional provision providing that council framework decision 2008/978/jha will continue to apply to erms issued before the transposition of the eiopa directive until the criminal proceedings for which they were issued have been concluded by a final decision.
in writing. ‒ these three reports, signed by mep moraes, respond to the need to update the rules in force by repealing a number of acts forming part of the schengen acquis. these legal texts are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts which have not, however, repealed them. on the substance, this can be seen as a positive measure, but also in view of the developments under way, especially in recent months, and the firm will on the part of our delegation to completely revise the schengen agreement, i voted against. we cannot limit ourselves to simple updates of schengen policies, but we must carry out a complete reform.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain acts in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. there are many acts in the schengen acquis relating to police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters which today have no function and no link with the other rules. although they have not yet been repealed, they remain inapplicable because their content has been incorporated into subsequent and more recent rules. for example, decisions improving the practice of judicial cooperation in the fight against drug trafficking have become obsolete as a result of the entry into force of successive rules specifically concerning judicial assistance in criminal matters between member states. this text proposes the repeal of rules which are now outdated and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ the vote concerns the repeal of acts relating to the old institutional framework within the framework of the expiry of the transitional period provided for in protocol 36 on transitional provisions (annexed to the treaty of lisbon). in this case, it is a convention and a framework decision in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. i voted yes.
in writing. - i voted for the measure. in the interinstitutional agreement of 16 december 2003, the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed on the need to reduce the volume of the union legislative corpus and to simplify it, including by repealing obsolete acts. on the basis of its examination, in line with the commitments under the interinstitutional agreement and its policy on regulatory adequacy, the commission has submitted a proposal to repeal seven council joint actions whose content has been taken up in subsequent acts and council act 1999/c 26/07 laying down the staff regulations of europol staff. parliament tabled amendments to repeal two additional acts which had also become obsolete: the convention of 17 june 1998 on the withdrawal of driving licences and council act 98/c 216/01, and council framework decision 2008/978/jha on the european evidence search mandate for the purpose of obtaining objects, documents and data to be used in criminal proceedings (erm).
in writing. ‒ the council joint action established a repository of expertise, capabilities and specialist knowledge in the field of counter-terrorism to make it more widely and timely available to services in all member states, which became obsolete when europol was given the task of supporting and strengthening mutual cooperation between member states' law enforcement authorities. i voted in favour of this proposal to avoid overlapping between the competences of europol and those of the existing bodies.
in writing. ‒ one of the objectives of the european union strategy is to simplify the rules governing community legislation. in order to effectively reduce the volume of community legislation, acts whose content has been taken over by subsequent legislation, so-called obsolete acts, should be deleted. in particular, this report highlights the usefulness of repealing certain acts on police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. in this field, seven council measures have become obsolete: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the development of the european union's environmental policy and to promote the european year of the environment. these policies have been the subject of more recent legislation and i therefore support the proposal to repeal the previous legislation, thereby reducing the burden on community legislation and contributing to greater transparency and clarity in european law.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the expiry of the transitional period provided for in protocol 36 on transitional provisions annexed to the treaties, the commission has carried out an evaluation of the schengen acquis and legal instruments in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. a number of acts have been identified as obsolete because their content was taken up by subsequent acts or because they were of a temporary nature. in the interinstitutional agreement of 16 december 2003, the parliament, the council and the commission agreed to reduce the volume and simplify union law, including by repealing obsolete acts, such as: 1) the convention of 17 june 1998 on driving licences and council act 98 / c 216/01; 2) framework decision 2008/978/jha on the european search warrant for the acquisition of objects, documents and data to be used in criminal proceedings (sdr) replaced by directive 2014/41/eu on the european criminal investigation order (eio). i think it is appropriate to vote in favour of the proposal because it is really outdated.
in writing. ‒ the vote on these three reports will be against as there is no need to revise schengen but to reform it completely.
in writing. based on the commitments under the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, the rapporteur has made amendments to repeal the council framework decision on the european evidence-gathering mandate aimed at the acquisition of objects, documents and data for use in criminal proceedings (erm). the convention of 17 june 1998 on the withdrawal of driving licences; delete the reference to council act 1999/c 26/07 of 3 december 1998 laying down the staff regulations of europol staff. i have decided to give my assent to these acts because they are obsolete, because they have been incorporated into subsequent acts or because they are temporary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the repeal of certain acts in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. in the interinstitutional agreement of 16 december 2003, the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed on the need to reduce the volume of the legislative corpus and to simplify it, including by repealing obsolete acts. the objective of this regulation is to repeal those obsolete union acts in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, since their content is taken up by subsequent acts even though they have not been repealed.
in writing. ‒ having examined the documents considered by the assembly (the convention of 17 june 1998 and council act 98/c 216/01 and council framework decision 2008/978/jha), i agree with the assembly that they hinder the effectiveness of the schengen acquis. i give you all my support by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the expiry of the temporary period on the transitional provisions annexed to the treaties, the european commission has carried out an evaluation of the schengen acquis and legal instruments in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. on the basis of its screening, and in line with its commitments on the adequacy of european regulation, a number of acts have been identified as obsolete because their content has been taken up in subsequent acts or because of their temporary nature. the commission therefore submitted a proposal for the repeal of seven council joint actions, the content of which has been taken up in subsequent acts, in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. in order to make european legislation clearer, i voted in favour of repealing these acts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure repealing the convention of 17 june 1998 on the withdrawal of driving licences established by council act 98/c 216/01 and council framework decision 2008/978/jha on the european evidence warrant for the purpose of obtaining objects, documents and data to be used in criminal proceedings (erw) as i consider these acts to be obsolete.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote, parliament repeals certain obsolete acts in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. their contents were taken up in subsequent acts. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the eu's accession to the enlarged commission of the southern bluefin tuna convention will allow europe to become a full member of the convention, with an active role and greater decision-making power. i therefore intend to support this text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ accession to the enlarged commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt) confirms the eu's international role in this organisation dedicated to the conservation of bluefin tuna. the european union has been a non-cooperating contracting party to the enlarged commission of the ccsbt since 2006. the european union has pursued a policy of very active participation in all regional fisheries organisations, with the aim of contributing to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. some of these organisations deal with all fish stocks in a specific area, while others manage highly migratory species particularly tuna over large geographical areas. the most significant for the european union is the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat), which is responsible for the conservation of tuna and tuna-like species in the atlantic ocean and adjacent seas. the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt) is important for our seas because it manages southern bluefin tuna in all its distribution areas.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the proposal is to authorise the exchange of letters between the eu and the enlarged commission of the southern bluefin tuna convention (scctb). the signature of this international legal instrument will allow the eu to become a full member of the ccsbt enlarged commission from its current status as a non-cooperating non-contracting party (which does not allow it to have voting rights, but it must respect the technical stock management guidelines). the committee therefore welcomes the possibility of at least having an active role in management decisions.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the proposal for the union's accession to the enlarged commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna. the exchange of letters should be terminated in order to complete the legal procedure. the union can no longer afford to maintain the current role of non-contracting party, which has been in place since 2006. such accession is consistent with the policies of the european union, since it has the competence to adopt measures for the conservation of marine biological resources under the common fisheries policy and to conclude agreements with third countries and international organisations. but above all, this action line will promote consistency in the union's conservation approach across the oceans and reinforce its commitment to the long-term conservation and sustainable use of fisheries resources worldwide. i would remind you that the main interest for the eu is the similarities between the management of southern bluefin tuna (sbct) and that of atlantic bluefin tuna (iccat). finally, let us not forget that vessels flying the flag of the member states of the union exploit the resources in the southern bluefin tuna area. it is therefore in the interest of the union to play an active role in the application of the convention.
in writing. ‒ the ccsbt convention, or commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna, to which the european union has been a cooperating non-contracting party since 2006, was open only to states and excluded regional economic integration organisations such as the european union. in october 2013, at its 20th meeting, the ccsbt amended the resolution on the enlarged commission to allow regional economic integration organisations wishing to become members of the enlarged commission through an exchange of letters in which the requesting body firmly commits the ccsbt to the terms of the convention and to the decisions of the enlarged commission of the ccsbt. the aim is to enable the eu to participate fully in the activities of the southern bluefin tuna convention (sbct). i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i chose to support the measure. on the basis of the commitments entered into in the provisions of the united nations convention of 10 december 1982 on the law of the sea, the european union has pursued a policy of very active participation in all regional fisheries organisations, with a view to contributing to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and to the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the purpose of the proposal is to authorise the exchange of letters between the eu and the enlarged commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt), a regional fisheries management organisation (rfm) responsible for the management of southern bluefin tuna in all its distribution areas. the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna entered into force on 20 may 1994. the signature of this international legal instrument will allow the eu to become a full member of the enlarged commission of the ccsbt from its current status as a cooperating non-contracting party, which it has held since 2006.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to authorise the exchange of letters between the eu and the ccsbt (southern bluefin tuna conservation commission). i believe that the european union must commit itself, as it is doing, to contributing to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and to combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, and for this reason it is very active in all the regional fisheries organisations. in this particular case, with regard to bluefin tuna, i feel i must support and endorse the report by mr carlos iturgaiz in order to be able to control, regulate and thus preserve the trade in southern bluefin tuna.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on the council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the southern bluefin tuna conservation commission. i believe that it is important to protect the maritime heritage and, in order to safeguard it, i believe that it is necessary to use this instrument, which will allow the european union to become a full member of the enlarged commission of the ccsbt. in this way it will be able to participate fully in the work of the committee, including voting rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the above recommendation concerning the conclusion of the southern bluefin tuna conservation agreement (sbcta). this international legal instrument will allow the eu to become a full member of the enlarged commission of the ccsbt from its current status as a cooperating non-contracting party, thus gaining voting rights within the said commission.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report authorising the exchange of letters between the eu and the enlarged committee of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt).
in writing. the proposal we are debating today aims to authorise the exchange of letters between the eu and the enlarged commission of the southern bluefin tuna convention (scctb). until 2013, the only status allowed for regional organisations was that of 'cooperating non-contracting party', but this status has subsequently changed, allowing such organisations to become members of the enlarged committee. the proposal is therefore closely linked to this change and i have decided to vote in favour of it as it aims at achieving full participation in the activities of the ccsbt.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the eu's accession to the enlarged commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna. the primary objective of this committee is the management of southern bluefin tuna in all its distribution areas. since 2006, the european union has been a non-cooperating contracting party to the enlarged commission of the ccsbt, which implies compliance with the conservation and management measures of that commission. the eu's priorities include helping to manage marine resources rationally and to take part in the fight against illegal fishing. it is therefore essential for the european union to become a full member of the enlarged commission. , by authorising the exchange of letters between the eu and the ccsbt
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to be able to renew today my commitment to safeguarding biodiversity in europe, a subject on which my colleagues and i in the envi committee have had a thorough debate during our meetings this month. i have not only contributed to the amendments to the dossiers and to the motions for resolutions before the commission, but i am voting in favour of the conservation of southern bluefin tuna. i am grateful to my colleagues on the committee on fisheries for their work and i hope that there will be a constant dialogue on the subject of species conservation.
in writing. ‒ this is a technical report that defines the conclusion of the legal process started in 2013 that will allow the eu to become a full member (with voting rights) of the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt). on the basis of the commitments entered into in the provisions of the united nations convention on the law of the sea of 10 december 1982 relating to the conservation and management of transboundary and highly migratory fish stocks, the european union has pursued a policy of active participation in all regional fisheries organisations (rfmo). the eu's main objective is to contribute to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and to the fight against illegal fishing. these organisations perform management functions, set catch and effort limits and set technical measures and control obligations. in order to achieve full participation of the european union in the activities of the ccsbt, the community executive, by means of an exchange of letters, undertakes with the ccsbt to respect the terms of the convention and to comply with the decisions of the enlarged commission of the ccsbt. i am voting in favour of this decision in order to ensure a more responsible and fair exploitation of fisheries resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for the european union to join the enlarged commission of the southern bluefin tuna convention, as i believe it is of the utmost importance that the european union has an active and decisive role in the activities of the ccsbt or regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation on the full participation of the european union in the activities of the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt). since 1982, the year of the united nations convention on the law of the sea, the eu has pursued a policy of active participation in all regional fisheries organisations (rfo) to ensure that fisheries resources are managed rationally and sustainably. in order to play an active role in the ccsbt, parliament voted today for a decision which will allow the european union to participate fully in the activities of this organisation in the tuna fisheries sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i am convinced that the eu needs to play a strategically important role in the conservation and management of transboundary and highly migratory fish stocks. the fisheries sector is one of the most important economic sectors in the european territory and for this reason the institutions must ensure that a policy of active participation is put in place in all regional fisheries organisations in order to ensure rational and sustainable management of fisheries resources and a clear and decisive fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. ‒ the langen report, which analyses the updating of the text in force since 2002 on insurance intermediation, is agreeable and well thought out. i believe that the choice of a directive rather than a regulation will ensure, in the implementation of the text, the prerogatives of each individual member state, ensuring the right balance between the legitimate interest of the market and the needs of consumer protection. for all these reasons i intend to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the report by mr langen on insurance intermediation. this new directive, the result of three years of work, is a small but decisive instrument towards a stronger single market for insurance products. the directive regulates direct distribution by giving uniform rules, legal certainty and regulatory consistency to all sales channels in the sector. it will be implemented in the union within 24 months of its entry into force. the many advantages, primarily for consumers: in addition to specific measures for their protection, common principles are recognised to ensure greater transparency. it also reduces the costs of cross-border access to insurance products, allowing european citizens greater choice. other important measures concern the registration and qualification of insurance companies and the provision of a strengthened product supervision system. it is a new achievement in the consolidation of the financial integration of the european union.
in writing. - i vote for it. insurance distribution is a sector which is subject to a level of harmonisation which differs from the general rules of the internal market of the union. in this case, we are faced with the expressed intention of achieving a minimum of harmonization in the insurance sector (and this is already a positive thing for our delegation). the text also focuses on consumer standards, which must be maintained at a certain level of protection in each member state. in our view, this directive seems to strike the right balance between the legitimate interest of the market (in accordance with the principle of freedom of establishment) and the need to protect users of insurance services. this directive should bring about an internal market for life and non-life insurance products and services. the text defines the scope of the directive, the areas excluded and the tasks of the member states' authorities (exchange of information, provision of single points of contact). the directive, which does not intend to impose any new burdens on undertakings, will have to be reviewed five years after its entry into force, also to assess whether the principle of proportionality has been properly applied. the amendments made by the agreement with the council include the title of the directive itself, which will become: insurance distribution, not insurance brokerage. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the house, i voted in favour of the supplementary report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on insurance intermediation, as i consider the principle of consumer protection to be a key value. i therefore support the proposal for a directive which harmonises insurance regulation, makes the link with banking discipline more coherent and strengthens the resilience of the european financial system to self-induced and hetero-induced events. i support the objective of increasing the level of consumer protection, in particular through greater transparency in the price and cost of insurance, better and more comprehensible information and rules of business conduct, to prevent consumers from buying products which do not meet their needs. i am firmly convinced that the objective of saving on insurance policy, together with the mitigation of the factors distorting competition in the insurance sector, necessarily requires a harmonization of the system at european level and a european strengthening of the protection of the end user.
in writing. ‒ the european commission proposed to introduce a requirement to provide full disclosure of the level of remuneration received by intermediaries. unfortunately, this obligation has disappeared in the final text. as a result, intermediaries would now be free to continue to receive commissions without the obligation to disclose. if the final text contains significant improvements, such as new rules on transparency and consumer information protection, we have chosen to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a recast of the insurance intermediation directive (directive 2002/92/ec). the aim of this proposal is to improve the regulation of the retail insurance market, to ensure a level playing field between all participants involved in the sale of insurance products and to strengthen the protection of insured persons. the new directive should extend the scope of directive 2002/92/ec to all distribution channels. clarify the exercise of the freedom of establishment, the freedom to provide services, and the powers of supervisory authorities; identify, manage and mitigate conflicts of interest; increase the level of harmonisation of administrative sanctions and measures in case of infringement of the key provisions of the directive in force; improving the adequacy and objectivity of consumer advice; ensure that the professional qualifications of sellers correspond to the complexity of the products sold; simplify and harmonise the procedure for cross-border entry into insurance markets across the eu. finally, the new directive should ensure greater transparency and information for the benefit of consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr werner langen on insurance intermediation. i think, like the rapporteur, that some amendments to this directive are necessary in order to make it clearer. the directive, to be more useful, should aim at better coordination of national provisions on access to insurance distribution activities, which should also be facilitated by changes that would benefit those who may be interested in taking out insurance on a property they have purchased. as regards these transactions, i think that in order to benefit the customer, we must work on intermediation and in this i agree with the honourable member's report, which i feel i fully support.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a directive on insurance intermediation aims to improve the regulation of the insurance market. the proposal aims to ensure a level playing field for all those involved in the sale of insurance products and to offer greater protection to those who sign such contracts. i have decided to vote in favour of this report because, thanks to the changes in the regulations, consumers and investors who decide to buy insurance products will be able to obtain numerous benefits. first, greater transparency will be ensured: insurance agents will have to be more transparent in terms of the price and cost of their products, with an obligation to provide the customer with detailed and comprehensible information, so that consumers can make more informed decisions. secondly, the new rules on transparency and business conduct will ensure that consumers are not sold products which do not fully meet their needs.
in writing. ‒ this is an update of the insurance intermediation directive (imd 1) dating back to 2002. the text was amended and voted on in the econ committee during the last parliamentary term. during the current session, trilogues were held with the council and the commission (always with the same rapporteur). the most important new features introduced by imd 2 are: extending the scope of the legislation to all categories of intermediaries, those performing ancillary functions and, in particular, to insurance undertakings operating in a direct selling model; introduction of many transparency rules and much more information for consumers; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. increased alignment with mifid. however, the original proposal provided for the introduction of a full disclosure requirement on the level of remuneration received by intermediaries. this obligation does not appear in the final text. the intermediaries will then be free to continue to receive commissions without the obligation to disclose. this is the only critical point in the directive. the imd 2 is, however, a step ahead of the imd1 in other respects. that is why i have decided to abstain in plenary.
in writing. ‒ the resolution contains the compromise text reached between the european parliament and the council and aims to improve the regulation of the insurance retail market and to regulate distribution activities through greater harmonisation of national legislation. i voted in favour of the resolution because it will bring considerable benefits both to the insurance industry and to european consumers. in particular, it will help to ensure a level playing field between all those involved in the sale of insurance products, strengthen the protection of insured persons and simplify and harmonise the procedures for ensuring the exercise of the activity of insurance intermediaries in the european single market.
in writing. ‒ the report under review is part of the broader audit spectrum of all financial markets following the financial crisis. the two main elements are the creation of a more cohesive and integrated single market and greater consumer protection. this directive succeeds in harmonizing the insurance market, but allows the national legislator to apply higher levels of protection in particular cases. the citizen will thus be able to benefit from rules which are comparable between the various countries, but which also reflect the particularities of the insurance market in the member state. the main elements introduced are: rules to encourage the exchange of information in european formats; the distinction between investment services and insurance services to provide greater security for citizens who decide to stay away from the most dangerous financial operations; and finally, in view of the fact that some operators were able to open agencies in member states where they were subject to inferior forms of control and then operate in other states with a considerable competitive advantage, with this directive, the legislators moved the control centre to the country where the operations take place as a priority, so that the italian citizen can be safe from possible fraudulent operations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the above-mentioned draft legislative resolution on insurance intermediation, as it aims to harmonise national provisions on insurance distribution without preventing member states from maintaining or adopting more stringent provisions to protect consumers.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report because the minimum harmonisation of the insurance sector envisaged seems to meet the demands of eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the insurance intermediation directive, which will introduce long-awaited innovations for consumers and insurance intermediaries from 2017. there will finally be more transparency, consumers will finally be able to have more clarity on the real data of an insurance product, from costs to duration, to the bonuses provided, more consumer protection but also a greater appreciation of the role of insurance intermediaries and more control by the supervisory authorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep legislative resolution welcoming the agreement with the council on the insurance intermediation and distribution (idd) directive, because it completes the single market for insurance services and specifically tackles the excessive fragmentation of insurance intermediaries and products caused by the financial crisis, promoting fair competition and strengthening consumer rights. member states will have two years to transpose the new legislation into national law. the latter sets very ambitious objectives and is an important step forward compared with the insurance intermediation directive, since it also extends the scope to insurance distribution. the new directive aims to create a level playing field in the market for retail insurance and its intermediaries, to reduce the costs of cross-border access (by increasing choice), and to establish a single registration system for intermediaries. it also introduces a principle of proportionality for insurance intermediaries. finally, the ep helped to introduce qualifying aspects into the directive, namely the rules aimed at strengthening the qualification requirements for intermediaries, the transparency of sellers' fees, the standardisation of information documents, aimed at explaining the risk, type and scope of insurance products.
in writing. i have decided to give my vote in favour of this proposal for a european parliament and council directive. this measure establishes new rules for insurance and reinsurance distributors in the eu, for the benefit of citizens and consumers. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be required to provide for the registration of all insurance distributors with a competent authority. in order to safeguard the rights of consumers, a set of rules is provided to ensure that marketing communications to insurance distributors' customers are correct and never misleading.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on insurance intermediation. the main purpose of the report is to establish the national provisions and rules on insurance distribution in the eu, so that these provisions are adapted, where necessary, to the specificities of the market in each member state, in the areas covered by the directive.
in writing. ‒ the commitment of the european institutions to consumer protection is fundamental, and i am happy to be able to contribute here by voting in favour of the text presented. i have carefully examined the amendments which have been made to it and i am confident that the member states will abide by the european provisions: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the steel industry.
in writing. ‒ the report sets out the rules for insurance distributors in the eu, with some exceptions, such as when insurance is complementary to the supply of goods or services and covers the risk of damage or theft. the main objective of this report is to harmonise national provisions on insurance distribution, such as information and advice provided by sales staff. to this end, insurance sales staff will have to be well prepared to meet customer demands and needs by attending at least 15 hours of continuing vocational training each year. the member states, for their part, will have to be able to monitor and evaluate effectively the knowledge and skills of insurance sales staff, both when they start their activities and on an ongoing basis. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that it will make the distribution and sale of insurance policies easier and safer by introducing new requirements to protect consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the supplementary report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on insurance intermediation as it ensures greater information and transparency in the insurance market and increases the level of consumer protection. the directive also requires insurance intermediaries to meet higher professional and good repute requirements.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour because the directive seems to strike the right balance between the legitimate interest of the market and the needs of the protection of users of insurance services.
in writing. ‒ the insurance distribution directive (idd) voted on in parliament today aims to create a single european insurance market in order to establish conditions that favour fair competition between insurance intermediaries and strengthen consumer rights. the directive will require sellers to comply with a number of rules concerning their qualifications and to disclose any fees and commissions to consumers. in addition, 'standardised information documents' will be introduced which explain the risk, the type and scope of insurance products offered, and the terms and duration of any contracts. the commission will therefore ensure greater transparency and uniformity in the insurance system, in order to protect the consumer and certify the best quality of service offered. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on insurance intermediation, which updates european legislation in this area by ensuring greater protection for consumers who purchase insurance services. the revision of the current directive provides for rules which significantly improve the way in which insurance products are marketed, particularly as regards information and warnings to consumers. in this respect, the new rules provide for greater transparency in the sale of policies, since they require the seller to inform the policyholder in good time of the type of remuneration envisaged and of any conflicts of interest. in addition, we can claim as a success of the social democratic group the tightening of the rules on package sales: when insurance products are sold together with other goods or services, consumers will be able to choose whether to buy the main good without insurance, thus avoiding unnecessary costs.
in writing. ‒ this directive on insurance intermediation is of the utmost importance for strengthening the single market, increasing transparency and improving consumer protection. the adoption of this text will make it possible to give citizens more choice by providing them with all the information they need to understand what they are buying. the directive, which is based on national insurance distribution schemes, sets minimum standards for distributors, allowing member states' legislators to apply higher levels of consumer protection. this directive ensures greater regulatory consistency across all sales channels, while maintaining the right balance between the application of the rules and proportionality for minor insurance products, if sold as an ancillary product. it must be increasingly clear to citizens what they are paying for a purchase or investment in an insurance product. our objective of balancing consumer protection with corporate sustainability has been achieved through this text.
in writing. ‒ imd 2 updates the 2002 directive on insurance intermediation. the most important new features in imd 2 are: extends the scope of the european legislation to all categories of intermediaries; introduces many transparency rules for the benefit of consumers; requires higher professional standards for insurance intermediaries; calls for greater responsibility for instruments sold to consumers; ensures alignment with existing european legislation. however, the original proposal also provided for full disclosure of the level of remuneration received by intermediaries (whether fixed or variable). this obligation no longer appears in the final text. intermediaries will therefore be free to continue to receive commissions without being required to disclose them. the negotiation process for this text was very long. this was amended and voted on in the econ committee during the previous legislature. during the current one the negotiations with the council and the commission were concluded, but this delay did not allow us to make any changes to the text of the directive. in all, we are satisfied with the outcome of the negotiations. imd 2 is certainly a step forward from imd 1. however, the critical issue of the lack of transparency on remuneration remains. that is why we thought it appropriate to abstain during the vote in the house.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this directive because i consider it to be a step forward in insurance legislation and an instrument for consumer protection. the agreement clarifies the rules for the sale of insurance products and clarifies everything concerning advice. the work done is in the right direction and represents a positive element for the sector.
in writing. ‒ today we voted to update the insurance intermediation directive (imd 1) dating back to 2002. the most important new features introduced by imd 2 are: the extension of the scope of the legislation to all categories of intermediaries, those performing ancillary functions and, in particular, insurance undertakings operating in a direct selling model; the introduction of many transparency rules and much more information for consumers; the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to provide the commission with a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union. finally, greater alignment with mifid is ensured. however, the original proposal provided for the introduction of a full disclosure requirement on the level of remuneration received by intermediaries (whether fixed or variable), but this requirement does not appear in the final text. the intermediaries will then be free to continue to receive commissions without the obligation to disclose. although the directive is a step forward from imd 1, this last critical point led me to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the paper under review illustrates admirably the close link between the persistence of social and economic inequalities and the increase in the rate of child poverty in the member states. the financial, administrative and employment obstacles faced by disadvantaged families or those from discriminated communities inevitably have a dramatic effect on children as they grow up. the commission is therefore proposing that the member states take effective action to develop social policy instruments to prevent and combat this phenomenon. improving the integration of marginalised communities, facilitating their access to the world of work and providing more qualitatively significant social assistance instruments can undoubtedly improve the living conditions of the children themselves. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i fully share the aims of the text which aims to formulate a strategy to combat child poverty by ensuring children's access to education and care. i do not agree with the ways and means proposed by the rapporteur for achieving these important objectives. the governance model of the european semester, invoked in the report, as well as the commission's increased interference in social policies have already proved to be failed and counterproductive instruments on several occasions. i abstained for all of them.
in writing. ‒ in the european union, more than one in four children is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. the increase in inequality and child poverty are therefore realities that we cannot ignore. among the elements that have underlined this trend are austerity policies and their effects on socioeconomic conditions and the labour market in the various countries, which have again demonstrated the link between wealth redistribution and employment policies and the widening of the social gap. in this context, the report, which i support, aims to give greater visibility to the fight against child poverty, reminding us that an integrated approach is needed to tackle this problem. while we must strengthen the social protection system within the union so that it can guarantee all children access to health care and quality education, housing and balanced nutrition, we must also put families, especially the most disadvantaged, in a position to offer their children the best possible living conditions by increasing existing opportunities in the labour market and ensuring that parents have a better work-life balance.
in writing. ‒ austerity policies are creating social disasters in europe: it is now clear to all that the cuts in social services and investment by the states have doubled the number of families living in poverty and social exclusion in europe. the people most affected by austerity are children and single mothers: the proportion of children living in absolute and long-term poverty (over 3 years) is increasing. in countries like estonia, greece and italy, the number of children who can't eat meat, chicken or fish for two consecutive days in a month has doubled. increasing poverty also affects access to childcare, education and health services: since 2008, the number of families unable to send their children to nursery or higher education and who have to forgo medical or surgical treatment because of lack of money has increased in all member states. increasing inequality and poverty are exacerbating social fragmentation and school dropout, depressing consumption and risking triggering far-reaching recessionary spirals. it is therefore clear that austerity has failed: we need to reverse course and realize that no accounting data is worth as much as the health of our children.
in writing. ‒ the report recommends the development of a roadmap for the implementation of the three-pillar approach adopted in the recommendation 'investing in children: breaking the vicious circle of social disadvantage', by developing precise and specific indicators of the level of child poverty and the areas most affected by it. the member states will thus have to implement the specific recommendations issued by the commission in the context of the european semester. the goals are noble and shared (combating child poverty, children's access to free public education and adequate care at affordable prices...), but i do not see how they can be achieved by insisting on the failed and undemocratic governance model represented by the european semester. moreover, to demand a greater role for the commission in the field of social assistance is to presage excessive interference in the competences of the member states.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on 'reducing inequalities, with particular attention to child poverty', because in the european union some 13 million children and adolescents lack the basic elements necessary for their development. too many children and adolescents continue to lack access to basic goods or services necessary for their development in countries that have all the means to provide them with the possibility of full development and self-determination. inequalities between eu countries are increasing and it is alarming that the proportion of children suffering from malnutrition is increasing. the percentage of children who can't afford to eat meat, chicken or fish for two consecutive days has dramatically doubled since 2008. member states should make a concrete commitment to developing policies to combat child poverty, which focus on correcting the drivers of child poverty and increase the effectiveness and quantity of social support specifically targeted at children.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential that member states increase in terms of quantity, amount, scope and effectiveness the social support and rights specifically aimed at children, but also at parents (such as unemployment benefits or increased maternity and paternity rights) and promote labour laws that guarantee social rights and family security and combat precarious work, illegal recruitment and exploitation of workers, by implementing or strengthening universal social benefits for children as an inherent right of the child. i am glad that amendments have been accepted in the final text calling for more protection for low-income families who are at greater risk of poverty, considering that child poverty is generated by family poverty. in our amendments we have also highlighted the fact that there are still financial, administrative and other practical obstacles to education for children from marginalised groups, that there is a need for social support also for unemployed parents such as an adequate minimum income, also highlighting the phenomenon of the working poor, and the need to increase public spending in order to achieve the objectives of combating child poverty.
in writing. ‒ the latest data on the situation of children in europe show a reality of deep and unacceptable inequalities. the latest reports on child poverty paint a disturbing picture. from 2008 to 2012, the number of children at risk of poverty increased by about 1.5 million: most of them lack access to healthy food, education and live in inadequate environments. in the face of these figures, i believe that the europe 2020 strategy's target of reducing by at least 20 million the number of people at risk of or in situations of poverty and social exclusion will be difficult to achieve. we must improve the coordination of european policies, but above all we must 'invest in children', as was emphasized in the written declaration that we are promoting with other colleagues. the debate on the revision of the europe 2020 strategy will soon be opened, and i really hope that this will be an opportunity to identify actions and measures to design long-term programmes to reduce poverty, but above all to give the european union a real social dimension. i hope that the commission will accept parliament's request to introduce a child guarantee with a specific fund. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on reducing inequalities, with particular attention to child poverty. according to the united nations convention on the rights of the child, all children must be guaranteed the right to education, health services, housing, protection, participation in decisions affecting them, leisure and recreation, a balanced diet and to grow up in a family. however, within the european union, the convention is far from being fulfilled. in fact, according to recent reports, children in europe are increasingly at risk of poverty and social exclusion. the european parliament therefore calls on the member states in this report to take effective measures as soon as possible to respond to these challenges and to implement the objectives of the united nations convention on the rights of the child.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report considering that the fight against child poverty needs to be given greater visibility at the highest european political levels if the eu is to achieve the europe 2020 target of reducing the number of people living in poverty by at least 20 million by 2020, and considering also that social inequalities, which have increased due to irresponsible and financially unsustainable public and budgetary policies, are a major factor in the increase in child poverty, and that in nineteen member states children are the most at risk of poverty. in accordance with the united nations convention on the rights of the child, all children should be guaranteed the right to education, health care services, housing, protection and participation in decisions affecting them. finally, i would stress the need for the commission to invest in publicly funded and publicly supported education, designating specific teaching methods for the most vulnerable social groups, because i believe that education can be a key priority in ensuring that children acquire the skills that will enable them to access skilled jobs.
in writing. ‒ child poverty in europe is increasing at an alarming rate. in numerical terms, between 2008 and 2012, the number of children at risk of poverty or social exclusion in europe increased by almost one million, with an increase of half a million in the period between 2011 and 2012 alone. child poverty deprives millions of children of access to education, health care services, protection, recreation and leisure, balanced nutrition and a normal family environment. the main factors that contribute to child poverty are poor management of wealth redistribution strategies, ineffective state income support measures, inadequate provision of care services and the precarious employment situation of parents. i therefore agree with the rapporteur's proposal to devise important policies to combat this phenomenon, aiming to stem the causes of such poverty and to increase the effectiveness, quantity and scope of social support specifically aimed at children. it will also be necessary to promote labour laws guaranteeing social rights and a minimum wage, in order to provide greater security for families and to combat precarious work.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the proposal is to increase and strengthen in terms of quantity, amount and effectiveness the support to social rights, in particular in relation to the situation of children, but also to parents (such as unemployment benefits or increased maternity and paternity rights), by promoting labour laws that guarantee social rights and family security and combat precarious work, illegal recruitment and exploitation of workers, by implementing or strengthening universal social benefits for children as an inherent right of the child. for these reasons, my vote was in favour.
in writing. ‒ social inequalities are a major driver of child poverty and, according to recent data, are increasing in europe, although reducing social exclusion and poverty is one of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the european parliament, in its resolution, which i voted for, calls on the commission and the member states to take urgent measures to deal with these problems. in particular, there is a call for more investment that has an impact on children, for example in education and training, including through better use of the european social fund, the european fund for aid to the most deprived and the eu programme for employment and social innovation. it is also felt that children should also be a priority in the programming and implementation of regional and cohesion policies. the european parliament called on the commission to develop indicators for analysing child poverty, with reference to access to education, childcare, health services and housing. only with clear data on the scale of social exclusion and child poverty can we put the right policies in place.
in writing. ‒ according to the un convention on the rights of the child, all children must be guaranteed the right to education, health services, housing, protection, leisure and family life. however, within the eu, the convention is far from being fulfilled. child poverty in europe is growing alongside rising social inequalities. the latter generate intergenerational disadvantages and the negative effects of poverty and social exclusion on children can last a lifetime. poverty is multidimensional and must be understood not only as the lack of coverage of children's basic needs, but also as the lack of access to education and the inability to participate in recreational activities. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential to give children the opportunity to live in an environment which enables them to grow and develop the cognitive, communication, social and emotional skills which are essential for their future.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the european parliament's motion for a resolution on reducing inequalities, with a particular focus on child poverty. despite my renewed support for proactive policies for the rights of children and the welfare of families, the above proposal contains a programme of 'redistribution of wealth' whose formulation must, in my view, remain a matter for national rather than european governance.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support this report because, although the aims are noble and shared (combating child poverty, children's access to free public education and adequate care at affordable prices), i do not see how they can be achieved by insisting on the failed european governance model.
in writing. the severe crisis that has hit europe has inevitably undermined the socioeconomic, health and cultural policies of national governments, contributing to the increase of social inequalities and, in particular, the risk of child poverty: in 2013, according to eurostat data, there were 26.5 million children at risk of poverty in europe. the european union should be the first guarantor of human rights, and in particular of children's rights, as the united nations convention proclaims. this is the time to act: it is up to us as members of the european parliament to try to intervene, as suggested by mrs zuber's report, which i support, by taking the opportunity of the mid-term review of the multiannual framework for the allocation of the eu social fund, by promoting a redirection of funds towards actions for social inclusion and combating the risks of malnutrition, family breakdown, overexposure to chronic diseases of the youngest without the guarantee of free and democratic access to care. europe must direct its resources and efforts to guaranteeing the fundamental rights of our children.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on child poverty because one in four children in the eu is at risk of poverty and social exclusion. the eu and its member states must make a serious effort to combat this grave injustice in a concrete way, as they do in other emergencies. the situation in the eu is a leopard's tail, but the figures eurostat gives us are inescapable: as many as 26 million children were at risk of poverty and social exclusion in 2014, i.e. 27.7% of the entire european population, with the aggravating fact that children are unable to provide for themselves due to their age. child poverty is a multifaceted problem, it's not just a problem of lack of funds or lack of will, it's fundamentally a problem of social exclusion, health, education. a poor child is a child who is not fed well, who does not receive a proper education, and will be an adult excluded from the world of work, because of poor schooling and consequently excluded from vocational training. investing in children is the best investment a society can make. the word now goes to the ec that it must do more and do it now.
in writing. i gave my favourable opinion to this proposal with a view to protecting the most vulnerable and in particular to safeguarding the rights of the child. this measure introduces, along the lines of the united nations convention on the rights of the child, a series of rules to combat child poverty and social exclusion. one of the priorities of this parliament is to guarantee the right to education, health care, housing, protection, recreation and leisure for all children.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report on reducing inequalities with a particular focus on child poverty. inequalities between countries and child poverty in the eu are growing phenomena that require immediate responses to implement plans to lower the poverty line and set targets to reduce social exclusion. member states need to guarantee social rights and benefits, which are necessary to counter the alarming and rising rates of poverty in europe, to promote their social inclusion and their general well-being.
in writing. ‒ caritas' third report on the impact of the crisis in europe presents worrying data on the growth of poverty and inequalities, with more than one in four children at risk of poverty or social exclusion. the needs of children are directly linked to the social situation of families, so solving children's problems is, to a large extent, solving family problems. poverty is multidimensional and must be understood not only as the lack of basic needs such as food, clothing and housing, but also as the lack of access to quality education and health services and the inability to participate in sporting, cultural and recreational activities. i strongly support the creation of a child guarantee, with its own specific fund, to enable every child to have access to free health care, free education, free childcare, decent housing and adequate food. ensuring these basic services is crucial because the negative effects of inequalities on children can last a lifetime. investing in children is not only a moral obligation but also an economic and social priority, in the knowledge that family-friendly policies have positive long-term effects.
in writing. ‒ child poverty in europe is rising alongside rising social inequalities. several organisations agree that the main cause of this increase is the so-called austerity measures (significant reduction in social support for children and families, increase in unemployment, spread of precarious work, increase in tax burden). in adopting this report, we intend to call on all member states to increase the amount, scope and effectiveness of support not only for children but also for parents (e.g. unemployment benefits or increased maternity and paternity rights), while promoting labour laws that guarantee social rights and family security and combat precarious employment, illegal recruitment and exploitation of workers. the commission should also act in line with the recommendations adopted in february 2013 by proposing a more cohesive policy for increasing and redistributing eu funds. children should be considered as a priority in the programming and implementation of regional and cohesion policies, using the european social fund to implement measures to reduce child poverty and to set implementation targets, which should be subject to regular monitoring.
in writing. ‒ i have been informed by eurostat of the seriousness of the situation with regard to child poverty. i believe that at a historical moment like the one we are living in, the purely economic or lifestyle issue is not the only problem. i am thinking of a more serious social consequence that child poverty can produce and i am referring to phenomena of exclusion that can lead to feelings of rejection towards a society that has not been able to take up the problems of a minority. that is why i believe that providing for the growth, nutrition, education and future prospects of children is a benefit to society as a whole. i welcome this text very much, also in view of the day against violence against women tomorrow, and i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ child poverty is unfortunately also present in europe. in our continent, one in four children is at risk of poverty and social exclusion. according to eurostat data, in 2013, 26 million children were at risk of poverty and social exclusion. this is 27.7% of european citizens under the age of 18. according to the united nations convention on the rights of the child, all children must be guaranteed the right to education, health care, housing, protection, recreation and leisure, as well as a balanced diet and family education. the draft report proposes a series of measures to eliminate poverty and social exclusion among children. i therefore vote in favour of this resolution, in the hope that the member states will decide to intensify their efforts to combat social inequalities, in particular child poverty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on reducing inequalities with a particular focus on child poverty, as i believe it is essential that the european union works towards guaranteeing all children the right to education, health services, housing, protection, participation in decisions affecting them, leisure and recreational activities, a balanced diet and to grow up in a family.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because the objectives of the text are shared, but i fear that they cannot be achieved by insisting on the failed governance model adopted so far.
in writing. ‒ in the area of child poverty, there is a dramatic gap between internationally recognised rights and reality. according to the united nations convention on the rights of the child, children should have access to education, medical care, housing, recreational activities, and even balanced nutrition. however, alarming eurostat figures show that more than one in four children (26 million young european citizens, almost 30% of the population under 18) would be at risk of poverty and social exclusion, a disadvantage that has increased following the economic crisis. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution calling on the member states to do more to reduce social inequalities and to make the fight against child poverty a priority. to this end, i support the proposal that the member states should step up their efforts to improve the living conditions of children and create a childhood guarantee guaranteeing them access to free public education, open to all and at all ages. as there is no better investment in a society than in childhood, this guarantee should be seen as a key instrument for the stability and prosperity of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which sets out very clearly the issues to be addressed in order to reduce inequalities, with particular attention to child poverty which is increasing alongside the increase in social inequalities. it is well known that countries with higher levels of social inequality are also more likely to have higher levels of child poverty and social exclusion. the report stresses, among other things, the need to: 1) to give more protection to low-income households; 2) to provide specific social support for unemployed parents and for needy working parents, for example through an adequate minimum income; (3) overcoming financial, administrative and other barriers to education for children belonging to marginalized groups; (4) increase public spending to achieve the objectives of combating child poverty. it is of fundamental importance to help low-income families at risk of poverty, as child poverty is directly linked to the economic and social conditions of the household of reference. we have a moral duty to ensure that all children are provided with the best possible conditions within which they can develop their social and cognitive skills to the fullest.
in writing. ‒ more than 26 million children in the 28 countries of the european union are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. these figures are unacceptable. i believe it is essential to include the fight against child poverty as one of the specific objectives of the europe 2020 agenda. more investment is needed in social protection, health, education and social housing. in addition to the creation of 'children's guarantee' funds, as called for by the s&d group, we cannot continue to remain helpless in the face of the millions of children throughout europe who are living in uncomfortable situations, which are being exacerbated by the current crisis. we strongly call on the european commission and the member states to do more to ensure basic services for families and to fight child poverty in a firm way, including by providing ad hoc resources.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, there has been a worrying increase in the proportion of children living in absolute poverty. since 2008, the percentage of children who can't eat meat or fish for two consecutive days has almost doubled. this has led to an inevitable increase in social inequalities and social exclusion of children in many countries. i have a clear and decisive vote in favour, as i have an urgent duty to ensure a future for the new generations and to fight against the vicious circle of poverty. to guarantee a future for a child is to guarantee the future of europe and the citizens who will come.
in writing. ‒ i very much welcome the outcome of today's vote on the resolution 'reducing inequalities, with a focus on child poverty' in which meps, meeting in plenary in strasbourg, called by a large majority on the member states to make the fight against child poverty a priority and to ensure that all children have access to free public education, open to all and at all ages. it is a strong message that confronts us with a situation not known to many: child poverty is also a reality in europe according to eurostat, 26 million children were at risk of poverty and social exclusion in 2014, i.e. 27.7% of european citizens under 18 years old and the austerity policy of recent years has only made this situation worse.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policies and the integration of marginalised communities have always been a key theme and objective of the european union. ensuring better integration into the social, cultural and employment fabric of communities considered marginalised on the basis of specific indicators is, without a doubt, a natural consequence of the fundamental objectives of the union. the document presented by the rapporteur, mr reintke, clearly shows in some respects how the erdf and the esf contribute considerably to the achievement of this objective by supporting and encouraging the integration policies of individual member states in the fight against all forms of discrimination and poverty. increasing employment opportunities, improving housing conditions and raising the level of education are just some of the possible and desirable interventions that the union and its member states are pursuing in the context of cohesion policy. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report by mrs reintke is one-sided, unbalanced and completely detached from the social dynamics of the integration process in countries such as italy, where the roma community makes no effort to integrate with the local communities that host them. for all these reasons i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the marginalization of social groups whether caused by different religious views or by outdated patriarchal conceptions, homophobia, racism, intolerance, economic discrimination or other causes undermines social cohesion and the possibility of development of a community and also has negative repercussions on the security, economic recovery and progress of the territories where it is implemented. it is well documented that the marginalization of social groups is also a breeding ground for fundamentalism, organised crime and terrorism of a political or religious nature. it is therefore desirable to launch eu projects with long-term funding and perspectives in order to deeply engage the target groups, increase the effectiveness of the intervention and ensure that the funds support investments in the real needs of the beneficiaries, with mechanisms to ensure that target groups are reached and exclusion and marginalisation are addressed. these interventions must be subject to careful qualitative evaluation and constant monitoring mechanisms. member states must be actively involved in the planning and evaluation processes of funds used for marginalised communities and their input is crucial to tackling the key drivers of social exclusion: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses mainly on the roma community, which, according to the rapporteur, is very often marginalised, a victim of racism, and calls for efforts and commitments to improve their living conditions. calls for and calls for greater coordination and stronger links between national strategies for marginalised communities, including national roma inclusion strategies, national poverty reduction strategies, strategies for the inclusion of other marginalised or disadvantaged communities, and gender equality strategies with cohesion policy, and calls on the member states and the commission to give priority to children in the implementation of the eu framework for national roma integration strategies, and reiterates the importance of promoting equal access to housing, health, education and decent living conditions for roma children. recalls that housing exclusion, lack of fixed housing, exclusion from education and unemployment are often key elements of the phenomenon of marginalisation; stresses therefore the importance of integrated housing, education and employment interventions for marginalised communities. we have an advance to vote against.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on cohesion policy and marginalised communities. cohesion policy aims to strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion by reducing social disparities and is therefore linked to reducing the exclusion of the most marginalised communities as well as groups and individuals of all ages facing poverty and social exclusion. the report underlined the importance of this role of cohesion policy, recalling that marginalised communities have been introduced as a focus of cohesion policy measures because of the growing concern about social exclusion and the commitment to combat it. the legislative framework for cohesion policy 2014-2020 has introduced new elements that extend the funding possibilities for marginalised communities. however, the commission should provide more information on the use of these funds, as well as provide guidance on the definition of marginalised communities, in order to enhance the effectiveness of cohesion policy. the text contained all these elements, and i therefore decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses the very topical issue of marginalised communities and the funding they receive through the structural funds. the report is very good and, among the particularly worthwhile aspects, it recalls that the budget cuts to public services made in some member states following the crisis have had the effect of increasing unemployment, worsening social security and, in general, worsening already difficult situations in terms of housing and health. the result has been a worsening of the situation for all marginalized groups and those in dire need. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ social exclusion is a widespread phenomenon in all eu countries; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union and the countries of eastern europe. in the coming years, growth and economic recovery will hardly be able to reduce the social gap created by the effects of the crisis: the economic instruments available must therefore meet the needs of those who are left on the margins of society. in this context, regional policy has an important role to play in supporting real socioeconomic cohesion. however, there is no clear guidance on what action to take. i hope that the commission will heed parliament's calls for indicators and tools to be established to monitor the impact of cohesion policy on marginalised communities and be involved in the bottom-up phase of the programming of the funds to identify and define the actions needed to reduce their hardship and promote their integration. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. cohesion policy is one of the strongest tools the european union has at its disposal to combat inequalities and to support territorial and social cohesion in its regions. in all european societies there are groups and communities, such as the roma community, who face structural marginalisation and segregation from the majority of society and lack access to even basic public infrastructure and services. in addition, they are often affected by poverty, unemployment and poor health. the reductions in public spending due to the crisis have led to a worsening of existing problems in the member states, such as unemployment, lack of social security, a difficult housing situation and lack of public health services. as a result, the crisis has had a direct negative impact on members of marginalized communities. in addition, many municipalities continue to face strong budgetary constraints which prevent them from adequately addressing the problem of social exclusion. despite the differences between member states and the specific circumstances at national level, the objective of social cohesion requires a european role in policies for the inclusion of marginalised communities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr terry reintke on the integration of marginalised communities. cohesion policy is one of the strongest tools the eu has at its disposal to combat inequalities and support territorial and social cohesion in its regions. the heavy cuts in public spending during the crisis have led to social problems for the inhabitants of the states themselves, as well as problems in the management of those who are marginalized communities. i think that social cohesion is a fundamental objective for the eu and should not be ignored. it is important to give cohesion policy as much weight as possible by finding mechanisms for quality assessment and monitoring of marginalised communities. i believe that a transition to quality control is needed to ensure that interventions achieve long-term and sustainable results.
in writing. ‒ the concept of marginalised communities was introduced in the erdf regulation in 2013 with the aim of combating the consequences of marginalisation affecting individuals and communities, such as linguistic and religious minorities, migrants, refugees, people with disabilities and the elderly. marginalisation in this case means that these people are systematically excluded from social and political processes, or that they lack access to basic public infrastructure and services. the task of cohesion policy is precisely to tackle discrimination and to try to change the situation, first by extending the possibility of funding also to actions and projects aimed at supporting marginalised communities, improving access to public services, setting up accountable, transparent and democratic structures and encouraging member states to use the esf to support informal and lifelong learning projects, as well as cultural and innovative projects.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights how the economic crisis and budget cuts have worsened the social situation, leading to difficult situations in terms of housing and health. it is highlighted that the european regional development fund and the european social fund play a specific and important role, with at least 20% of the esf allocated in each member state to the specific objective of promoting social inclusion and combating poverty and all forms of discrimination, thus representing a crucial tool in promoting greater inclusion of marginalised communities. cohesion policy, it is stressed, can and must add value to the work already under way in the member states. by focusing on improving employment opportunities, participation in society and investing in skills, especially in the regions that need them most, cohesion policy should ideally lead, among other benefits, to greater social inclusion and poverty reduction, providing member states with the flexibility to implement individualised support in line with local needs and ensuring that funding is used in areas where unemployment is highest and where funding is most needed. for these reasons, i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ provide as soon as possible a precise and, if possible, comprehensive definition of 'marginalized communities' and promote a process of protection and integration aimed at promoting their integration into the european social fabric. there is no comprehensive definition of 'marginalized community' at european level. the first step is to understand the phenomenon of exclusion by analysing its specific connotations. the typical and specific situations and needs of the different realities should be examined and the living and working conditions, access to education and health care systems, the level of employment, school dropout rates should be assessed. in this context, europe's task is to establish a set of common indicators that will allow the concept of 'marginalized communities' to be reconstructed in a uniform and shared way. cohesion policy thus becomes a driving force for development by supporting the economic, social and territorial inclusion of minorities. the next step is to extend these measures to all minorities who are currently excluded, so that the process of breaking down moral and material boundaries can be implemented. to do this, a shared strategy is needed, starting from the common elaboration of the concept of 'marginalized communities' to measures that reduce the distances of diversity in the name of formal and substantive equality.
in writing. ‒ as the shadow rapporteur for this report and having been able to actively contribute to its development, my vote can only be positive. among the things that have particularly satisfied me is the analysis of the phenomenon of marginalization. marginalisation should be assessed by analysing a range of indicators such as social exclusion, high unemployment, low education, poor housing conditions, high levels of discrimination, excessive exposure to health risks or lack of access to healthcare. the tragic events of the last few weeks only confirm the importance of measures to reduce the inequalities and the conditions of cultural, social and economic isolation which in many cases are one of the factors that predispose to radicalisation and crime. the cohesion policy is of fundamental importance in this respect. we cannot afford, as we have repeatedly stressed, that precisely where austerity measures have had the greatest impact, cohesion policy funds are not used or are used for projects of dubious utility. the quantity and quality of projects and the real application of the partnership principle matter now more than ever if we do not want cohesion objectives to become mere declarations of intent which have no practical effect on our regions.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is one of the strongest tools the european union has at its disposal to combat inequalities. in all european societies there are groups and communities that lack access to basic public infrastructure and services and are very often affected by poverty, unemployment and poor health. heavy cuts in public spending during the crisis have exacerbated existing problems in member states, with a direct negative impact on members of marginalised communities. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that, despite the specific circumstances, national needs and solutions vary considerably across europe. furthermore, the objective of social cohesion requires a european role in policies for the inclusion of marginalised communities, as well as an integrated approach to respond to all different forms of discrimination.
in writing. ‒ as legislators, we have a duty to keep our eyes open to the situations of poverty and discrimination that marginalise certain communities in our society. this is contrary to the fundamental principle of human dignity, the cornerstone of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which we are called upon to respect and guarantee. the austerity policies of recent years have actually made the situation worse in many countries of the union. the european union has a duty to change course and to use all the resources at its disposal, starting with cohesion policies, to combat poverty and exclusion. in this context, there is the need to establish, at european level, in each member state of the union, a minimum income for citizens, which will restore dignity and decency to the life of every citizen who is unemployed and lacks the minimum means of subsistence.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the following report by mrs reintke, i believe that a policy of cohesion and integration of marginalised communities is necessary. however, the proposal includes mechanisms for implementing programmes with potential associated costs at european level, as well as a mandatory application of the partnership principle by the member states, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this noble title report has obviously ended up becoming yet another politicized report that focuses obsessively on the roma.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on cohesion policy and marginalised communities because i shared the commission's request for a precise and shared definition, which would allow the inclusion of dedicated measures in the next programming while promoting clarity of scope and a rationalisation of measures, also taking into account those already provided for by the esf. in fact, the legislative framework for the structural and investment funds already contains some new provisions. they include, for example, the fund for combating social exclusion and poverty reduction, to which member states must allocate at least 20% of the total amount of the esf. according to commission figures, member states have already allocated 25.6% of the total esf amount (eur 21 billion) to measures to combat social exclusion, including measures in favour of roma communities. the promotion of social inclusion and the fight against poverty and any discrimination are one of the 11 thematic objectives of the efsi. under this objective, marginalised communities can receive support through dedicated priority investment. therefore, states need to do more than what is already planned (eur 1,5 billion) under this priority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the fundamental objective of cohesion policy is to remove obstacles to ensure that all regions and territories in europe can grow and develop. in the same way, territorial cohesion cannot be separated from social cohesion. the structural funds must be fully integrated into the contexts in which they operate in order to reduce inequalities. the involvement of all parties in the definition of programming objectives is essential.
in writing. i support the report by mr terry reintke. the social consequences of the economic and financial crisis which has hit europe in recent years require serious reflection. many citizens are living in poverty or marginalization and one of the main priorities of this parliament is economic recovery, with the objectives of growth and employment in europe. i believe that the recommendations contained in this proposal can help to maximise the benefit of using eu funds for the inclusion of marginalised communities, and that the use of these funds is a great opportunity to promote and support the development and cohesion of european societies.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is one of the key tools the european union has at its disposal to support economic, social and territorial inclusion and to reduce disparities and gaps between regions. marginalised communities do not always benefit from european cohesion policy, they are not included in decision-making structures or in the processes of project implementation and monitoring. europe has an urgent need to address the issue of marginalised communities. specific measures should therefore be taken in the implementation of the outermost communities and in particular in the management of eu funds to promote and support greater cohesion in european societies.
in writing. ‒ we shall vote in favour of this resolution, which has become particularly necessary in recent days. this is in fact a move towards reducing disparities within the european union and above all it focuses on the vital need to do something serious to integrate the marginalised groups in our society. marginalisation is an unjust phenomenon and above all a source of resentment on the part of the communities that suffer from it. it is therefore important that the european commission follows the directives contained in this measure, which call for a serious and comprehensive definition of what constitutes a marginalised group. this could allow these european citizens to benefit from the european structural and investment funds provided for by the european union's cohesion policies.
in writing. ‒ i am always particularly attentive to developments in european cohesion policy, especially in this period of the 2014-2020 objectives, where the 'less developed regions' have been given priority. as a person from the south, i am sensitive to the needs of the most deprived regions and i believe that the same modus operandi should be applied to marginalised communities. social inclusion and non-discrimination are the values that the eu stands for and works hard to implement. i therefore wholeheartedly support the text under discussion and voted on in this house and i shall vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the reduction in public spending, due to the continuing economic crisis, has led to an aggravation of some of the problems already existing in the member states. in many european societies there are groups and communities affected by structural exclusion and lacking access to basic public infrastructure and services. in addition, many municipalities continue to face strict budgetary constraints that prevent them from adequately addressing social exclusion. cohesion policy is one of the strongest tools the european union has at its disposal to combat inequalities and to support territorial and social cohesion in its regions. the use of eu funds for the inclusion of marginalised communities can be a great opportunity to promote and support greater cohesion in european societies. that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that cohesion policy is an indispensable tool to combat the social inequalities that still exist in europe. member states must work together to help and integrate the most marginalised communities and must be able to implement policies of social, economic and territorial inclusion.
in writing. ‒ the proposals contained in this report are particularly interesting and very timely. the european union's cohesion policy, which aims to eliminate inequalities and to support territorial and social cohesion in its regions, plays a key role in the fight against poverty and the social inclusion of the most vulnerable. the crisis has exacerbated inequalities and this is why parliament insists that key areas such as education, training and basic healthcare be placed at the centre of all regional policies. we cannot allow the existence of groups and communities in all european societies that face exclusion and segregation. only through an integrated approach to policies to support marginalised communities can we overcome all the different forms of discrimination which are the basis of the cultural, social and economic isolation which we unfortunately still see.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i am convinced of the importance of cohesion policy as a tool for reducing social disparities and eliminating poverty and exclusion. cohesion policy has been instrumental in promoting policies that promote social inclusion and equal opportunities for european citizens and combat the marginalisation of communities and groups of individuals who lack access to education and health.
in writing. ‒ i find the vote today on cohesion policy and marginalised communities very important, two interlinked issues that cannot be ignored or treated superficially in politics. the cohesion policies and the funding for them that we are going to approve today will allow us to move ever further towards an inclusive and supportive europe, including those living on the margins of society. avoiding the marginalisation of individual citizens, or even entire communities, is also important for social security and the life of our cities.
in writing. ‒ although the report is only partially shared, there are still some passages that i find controversial and contradictory, so i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the challenges facing us today require a global response, and the main forum within which to strengthen international governance and promote the interests of the european union remains the united nations. the european union's contribution to the international arena in the fields of diplomacy and security, humanitarian aid and economic aid, and its concrete commitment to promoting environmentally sound and sustainable policies, place it at the forefront of the united nations. however, in order to make the most of this potential and to ensure that its international action has a real and effective value, the union must act as united and compactly as possible. this is done by making its voice heard on issues of fundamental importance, such as reform of the un system, and by expanding its influence, especially in areas where it has the tools and capacity to take a leading role, such as action for sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ the european union has a great responsibility to the world, both as a major macro-regional actor and as a rich and developed reality that is a virtuous example of democracy, peaceful coexistence between different cultures and stability. the eu can and must play a leading role in the world in protecting human rights, promoting a sustainable and inclusive development model, supporting democracy and civil liberties, encouraging the fight against climate change, disseminating knowledge and expertise, moving towards a more just and cohesive world, and countering dictatorships and international terrorism. but europe can only do this if it speaks with one voice: you have to throw your heart over the obstacle and take the step forward. start a federal constituent phase that will provide the union with a genuine european government with exclusive powers over defence, foreign policy and international emergencies. only then will the voice of the european citizens be given even more authority and respect. only then will the eu's contribution to the un be more useful and effective.
in writing. ‒ i abstain because, although the report's comments on the current administrative management of the un's internal functioning and decision-making processes are positive, expenditure commitments and reporting on activities appear to be too opaque and ineffective. however, the eu's mere 'increased presence' in the un bodies would give it too much legitimacy as a political entity able to represent the interests of the european peoples. the united nations is a very important institution, and it is not just the united nations that is to be reformed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the 'role of the eu in the united nations' because the european union is actively involved, under the aegis of the un, in promoting peace, security and progress through its common foreign and security policy. the eu and its member states therefore have a crucial role to play in promoting the principles and objectives of the un and in solving the common problems of humanity. the un must remain a strategic reference point for the external action of the european union, which, taking all its member states together, is the main net contributor to the budget of the world organisation. the strengthening of the eu within the un is a step in the right direction, not least because it consolidates some of the most important acquisitions introduced by the lisbon treaty.
in writing. ‒ the report by mr väyrynen supports a process of un reform which would allow the eu to play a more prominent role both in the security council (cs) and in the general assembly, taking into account all the powers granted to the union in the un framework and referring to the proposal for the eu's seat in an enlarged security council. the un reform is proposed in three main areas: enhanced representativeness and a stronger role for the general assembly, accompanied by a reform of the cos that expands its responsibilities as a world government; enhanced transparency and gender equality for all un institutions, starting with the secretary-general; the european council also adopted a resolution on the future of the european union. the permanent members are invited not to veto the coc's reform proposals, in particular the institution of the veto, in cases of genocide or crimes against humanity. the commission is also proposing that the next secretary-general should be a woman, which would be unprecedented in the history of the united nations. my vote on this report was in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european union is one of the main regional organisations. its activities are fully in line with the principles of the un charter: pursuant to articles 3 and 21 teu, the union shall define and implement common policies and actions aimed at ensuring a high level of cooperation in all areas of international relations, and shall include peace, security, development and global human rights among the objectives of its external action. these are interrelated challenges that can only be addressed through strong and coherent action by the entire international community. the role of the union's foreign policy as a unified and authoritative actor within the united nations system can be decisive in this respect. this is particularly true for the defence of peace and security, for the resolution of regional conflicts and the 'malfunctioning' of states and, of course, for the fight against terrorism, organised crime, the proliferation of firearms, explosives and weapons of mass destruction. it would therefore be useful to reform the un system in order to give the union a permanent seat in an enlarged security council. i voted in favour of this in the hope that we can move in this direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the role of the eu in the united nations. the european union and its member states share and promote the values and principles of the united nations charter (article 21 (1) teu). parliament therefore welcomes the eu's important contribution to development and humanitarian aid worldwide and recalls that the eu has become a genuine international actor with 'privileged observer' status at the united nations and that the eu has committed itself to actively supporting a comprehensive reform of the un system in order to strengthen its legitimacy and regional representation. parliament stressed in particular its conviction that the security council should be reformed and the eu's important long-term objective of having a seat in an enlarged security council. parliament reiterated its call on the vp/hr for foreign and security policy to seek common eu positions on issues within the competence of the security council and supported the objective of establishing a multilateral investment protection regime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr paavo väyrynen on the role of the eu in the united nations, because i agree with what is explained and analysed in the report. the eu's objectives and strengths lie in security and peace, which are linked to the development of global human rights. in this context, the eu's strength lies in its ability to mobilise resources across the full spectrum of diplomatic, economic and humanitarian development areas. the european union should be able to guarantee its integrity and peace mobilization in international relations in accordance with the principles of the 1975 united nations charter. the eu and its member states play an active role and contribute to the work of the un system in different formats and ways.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this important report, which is even more important today because of the situation we are experiencing, generated by the recent terrorist attacks. i agree with the proposals put forward. first of all, there is a need for reform of the un, both in terms of its internal organs and in terms of its objectives and instruments. it is also essential that the union acquires a greater say in this system, coordinating more effectively with the member states and increasing its influence through its role as a privileged observer. i also believe it is important to improve early warning tools to strengthen prevention, as well as to strengthen the role of the international criminal court.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on strengthening the eu's role in the un system because i believe that many of the problems facing the european union in the areas of peace and security, environment and sustainable development, immigration and human rights, international trade and economic growth require global solutions. therefore, i believe that the eu must work through effective and coordinated activities that strengthen its own influence and that of its member states within the united nations system, which is the world's main forum for improving global governance and the best forum in which to promote the eu's values and interests.
in writing. ‒ the european union is a central pillar of the un system and has already amply demonstrated over the years the positive contribution it can make to the activities of the un. the european union and the united nations have worked together in a determined and constant manner over the past few years to strengthen the principles of multilateralism in the world. the need for increased cooperation with the un and for a stronger eu voice at the un has been repeatedly underlined within the union institutions. even in the light of new global crises and the many challenges of global governance, the eu must work to further strengthen the un's action and make the decision-making process of the entire un system more effective, making the most of partnerships with un agencies, funds, programmes, commissions and specialised committees and playing a more coordinated role within the general assembly.
in writing. ‒ the eu's role in the un needs to be completely reviewed. i hope that some member states will denounce this hypocrisy, the scandals and the power games that have been played out. the way the whole si case was handled is proof of that.
in writing. the european union is the most successful historical example of regional integration and cooperation in the world. the ideal and practical contribution which europe can make to world peace must be strengthened by every means, especially in view of the many global crises which are now unfolding. i therefore agree with the report by mr vayrinen, who has presented a very ambitious text on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, which contains a number of points of great interest. i think it is important to reiterate, as the resolution does, that the eu should seek to strengthen global governance within the un system and increase its own influence and that of its member states within that system. the european union must actively support a comprehensive reform of the un system in order to strengthen its legitimacy, regional representativeness and transparency, accountability and effectiveness in responding to today's complex and articulated challenges. i am confident that the work of high representative federica mogherini will be up to this important objective.
in writing. ‒ i voted strongly in favour of the resolution on the role of the european union in the united nations how best to achieve the union's foreign policy objectives, because i believe that the eu is a key player in the international context and plays a predominant role in ensuring and supporting global peace, stability and security processes. there is no doubt that the eu's foreign policy objectives are closely linked to those of the un, and that the un is the eu's most important forum for global governance and for resolving conflicts and disputes. the international situation is becoming increasingly unstable and there are outbreaks of tension, if not outright conflict, in various parts of the world. the situation in eastern ukraine, the civil war in syria, the advance of terrorist organisations such as isis or boko haram represent global threats that must be addressed and resolved under the aegis of the un. finally, i believe that the problem of environmental sustainability is a serious one for future generations and that it cannot be postponed any longer. i therefore hope that the un climate conference (cop21) will be a fruitful cooperation between the eu and the un, so as to ensure that a binding and universal agreement is reached.
in writing. i voted in favour of this important motion for a resolution on the role of the eu in the united nations. in view of the growing challenges on the international scene, i believe that dialogue between the eu and the united nations is of paramount importance. in this context, the provision in question proposes the means for reviving the role of the general assembly and a reform of the un security council. in particular, this proposal calls for the improvement of the international instruments which can be activated and used under the auspices of the united nations for early warning and peacekeeping operations. for its part, the eu, also taking into account the recent atrocities and human rights violations perpetrated by certain extremist and terrorist groups, must offer concrete support to peacebuilding and peacekeeping operations and strengthen its mediation efforts in conflict resolution.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report on the role of the european union in the united nations and how best to achieve the union's foreign policy objectives. the un system aims to improve global governance and is the best forum in which to promote the values of the european union. the european union in turn shares and promotes the values and objectives of the un charter, for example by promoting peace, security and progress (think of the common foreign and security policy cfsp and the common security and defence policy csdp), by promoting the economic, social and environmental progress of developing countries, by combating social and food inequalities and poverty, and by providing humanitarian assistance. in addition, the union, together with its states, constitutes the main financial contribution to the un's general budget. it is therefore appropriate to step up joint efforts between the eu and the un, promoting shared values and supporting governments, civil society and people in the poorest countries. greater and more intensive eu-un cooperation will facilitate the participation of civil society in the political process, improve the lives of future generations and ensure equitable and sustainable development for all.
in writing. ‒ given the importance of the united nations as the most relevant and comprehensive assembly for the improvement and definition of global governance, i can only welcome a proposal aimed at improving its functioning. the recent events in paris, the deterioration of the situation in syria and the continuing serious instability in the middle east make it clear that there is a need for an effective multilateral approach to global issues under the aegis of the un. a stronger and more efficient model of international cooperation is in fact consistent with european foreign policy and would help achieve its objectives. given the primary role played at international level, especially with neighbouring countries, i support the provision for a permanent seat for the eu in a reformed security council. in this context, recalling the provisions of chapter vii of the un charter on the promotion and inclusion of regional organisations, we call for a strengthened role for the european union and its counterparts both within the un and in global governance more generally. given my political commitment, the personal struggles i have fought in this area and my consistency with the values of the european union, i share the wish that the next un secretary-general should be a woman.
in writing. ‒ president schulz, speaking at the memorial service for the victims of paris at the european parliament in brussels, said that europe needed to be united now more than ever in the name of its values, first and foremost peace, its greatest achievement. for this to happen, its credibility and weight at international level must be a priority. we all want the eu to play an important and decisive role in the united nations. only then can we overcome global challenges such as terrorism, migration, and the building of a strong international balance. i am voting in favour and i invite you to do the same.
in writing. ‒ the eu is committed to multilateralism centred on a strong and effective united nations. this commitment is based on the conviction that in order to be able to respond to global crises, challenges and threats, the international community needs an efficient multilateral system, based on universal norms and values. to cooperate better with the un, the eu should seek to strengthen its influence. in the context of the general assembly, for example, the eu should play a more prominent role in order to gain greater visibility and political authority. the european parliament, through this report, wishes to underline the importance of reviving the work of the general assembly and is convinced that the security council must be reformed. parliament also called for improved early warning instruments and a stronger un mediation capacity, with coherent and achievable mandates for peacekeeping operations. i hope that the european union will have a single common representative in the security council and that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the role of the european union in the united nations in ensuring and enhancing the security and defence of all european citizens. i agree with the european union's desire to play an increasingly important role in the peace and democracy processes in the world. the european parliament reaffirmed its support for a thorough reform of the un system in order to strengthen its legitimacy, regional representation, transparency, accountability and effectiveness. parliament stressed the need to relaunch the work of the general assembly and to convince its members of the need for reform of the security council.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because i believe that, in a process of reform of the united nations, which is both necessary and urgent, more weight should be given to the individual member states than to the european union as such.
in writing. ‒ i believe that in order to achieve all the ambitious foreign policy objectives, the european union should seek to strengthen global governance within the un system, increasing its own influence and that of its member states within that body. a europe that speaks with one voice, including in international forums, is stronger and can make a decisive contribution to the solution of the many conflicts affecting various parts of the world. there is a need to actively support a comprehensive reform of the un system in order to strengthen its legitimacy, regional representativeness and transparency, accountability and effectiveness in responding to today's complex and articulated challenges. this requires a revitalization of the role of the general assembly and the reform of the security council, which is still too unrepresentative of the geopolitical changes taking place.
in writing. ‒ the european union has a primary responsibility for promoting peace and security through its security policy and plays a decisive role within the united nations. however, the need for reform is becoming increasingly evident, so that the organisation can act effectively in projecting its values onto new global scenarios. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
the explanations of vote are closed.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, exactly one year ago in this house i called for the resignation of president juncker for his involvement in the luxleaks affair. today, my request does not change: it is confirmed by months of hard work by the taxe committee. president juncker has not yet clarified the issue of the missing page in the krecké report and continues to deny any direct involvement of luxembourg. the reality is unfortunately quite different and those of us who have seen the documents have seen that luxembourg has always opposed any decision of the group on the code of conduct, which aims to eliminate distortions in the tax area within the eu. i am addressing myself directly to the luxembourg minister of finance, who obviously had better things to do today: if you have nothing to hide or fear, why not make public all the documents relating to the meetings of the code of conduct group since its inception? it is clear that everyone is trying to pursue his own interests, but we cannot accept lessons and trust those who have endorsed and encouraged these practices to the detriment of our european partners. and this applies not only to president juncker in luxembourg but also to the president of the eurogroup, who is an active participant in this scandalous affair. the citizens of europe want transparency! transparency, which has been denied to the members of this special committee, who have received a few documents late and with many secretive parts. what is europe afraid of? the truth, perhaps? we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. if we want to be credible, we must first of all shed light on the past, on the political responsibility of those who have allowed this to happen. and then moving forward to a country-by-country reporting in public, a full ccctb right away, a central register for public tax agreements and finally also addressing the critical role that banks play in this business. this is essential! the rest are just empty words from petty people unfit to represent the citizens of europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is very clear that powerful and hidden powers, financial and political, are at work, preventing the commission from working, and forcing those who have a duty - mr moscovici, i am talking about you - to give the taxe committee the documents to investigate. and then there are the outrageous behaviour of large multinationals, such as walmart, fiat - which do not even respond to invitations to appear, but which are always praised by the president of the council as an example! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the taxpayer is not subject to the taxation of his income. without forgetting the troika, which was so hard on the weak (greece, portugal) and very weak when it had the power to prevent the causes of this crisis, preventing such enormous advantages for a part of the economy at the expense of the interests of the real economy and therefore of the peoples and therefore of the workers and therefore of the real producers. the king is naked: the commission is showing all the compromises it has been able to make. we are in the hands of your strong powers and your masters.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the debate we are having is of great importance because, as you know, europe needs to grow. to do so, it must have an economy that is able to compete in the global market. the competition is the focus of the discussion and the acts to accompany the discussion we are having. what's the competition today? we are being rushed, as you know, by jacques delors's exhortation to compete on knowledge and quality at luxleaks. not paying taxes or proposing tax ruling solutions outside any rules is not only an element of social injustice, both for businesses and for citizens in their communities, but it is also an improper and wrong way to compete among states. that is why i believe that the contents and proposals in the taxe report, those relating to transparency and coordination of tax rulings, those on the common tax base, those on the protection of whistleblowers, and those on country-by-country, are very important. we have opportunities that must be seized. one is to give the committee a mandate to continue and complete its work. the other concerns the european commission. i believe that if the commission were prepared to accept the proposals contained in the report and the proposal for a directive on shareholders, we would be taking an immediate step in the right direction. i'm waiting to see some action.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i wanted to ask my colleague: i've been here a short time, i was a deputy in italy before and i'm the mayor in italy. but according to you, since you are talking about the multinationals, and according to all the colleagues here, you are not hypocrites when you speak like that, since there are the possible and imaginable lobbies of the multinationals here, who come to break the boxes to everyone in the committees, saying "do this and do that", and many members are subsidized by the lobbies of the multinationals. so what do you do? you want the wife drunk and the keg full?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in my question of november 2014 i pointed out that the lack of tax harmonisation between member states leads to competition and tax dumping which seriously distorts economic competition and the proper functioning of the single market. the commission's reply highlighted the problems created by the coexistence of 28 different corporate tax regimes and the difficulty of harmonising the corporate tax base. the luxleaks scandal has also highlighted the lack of awareness of the secret agreements of 300 multinational companies, but the evidence is structural and is attributable to the member states and the lack of harmonisation. these and many other requests are answered in the proposal for a directive and in the report, to which i subscribe, in the knowledge that we must eliminate as soon as possible the asymmetries between tax systems and improve cooperation within the european union, since these critical issues are a burden for the other taxpayers, namely smes and citizens. we must also restore confidence in taxation if we are to be able to operate in a truly integrated and competitive single market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with much of what is said in this report. the fundamental question now is: where is the political will? where is the european council? where is the representation of luxembourg, one of the countries at the centre of this inquiry and the one which also gave rise to it? we are now with juncker, who is the president of this commission and a member of the eurogroup representing another state which has been protecting the interests of the strong for years. but where is democracy represented here? the people want a europe that is represented democratically and that is a europe that looks after the interests of these citizens. most european citizens have small businesses, and small businesses close down because they pay too much tax. the big multinationals do not pay taxes, as we have seen, and we are represented by the defenders of this system. this is precisely the hypocrisy of this europe that we are trying to combat in every way. and as much as this parliament may spend to produce good texts, the political will is very weak. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue-card question. it is not a question, but it is essential that the luxembourg presidency be represented here because, again, everything has come out of the luxleaks scandal and that is why we decided to set up this committee. at first, it was to be a commission with inspection powers; in fact, it was impoverished by a commission without these powers. without the luxembourg representation and without the political will of this country and of countries like the netherlands or ireland or others, it will be impossible to achieve anything concrete, no matter how much parliament may be doing in this direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the latin phrase 'in medio stat virtus' is what emerged from the final agreement on conciliation, halfway between the council's proposal and the european parliament's. it seems that everyone is satisfied with this agreement: but i think that the opportunity to make the union's budget more concrete and more rational has been lost. parliament has succeeded in winning a frontal victory, especially with regard to the increases in heading 1a, which was affected by the efsi cuts, while the council has succeeded in getting its line of restraint of payments through. the council has not been able to identify some of the negative priorities, as requested by parliament, but it is perhaps the council that is most guilty of being obstinate in not honouring its commitments. i therefore confirm our opposition to an agreement which does not solve the very serious problems of the european citizens, let alone the structural imbalances which the union's budget has been carrying for years.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, of all the things that have been said in this debate, the only things i will repeat are my thanks to our rapporteurs, the vice-president of the commission and minister gramegna, who have done an extraordinary job in helping us to adopt this budget. i would like to make three very brief comments in addition to what i have already said. firstly, the extraordinary work is characterised above all by the fact that, with a complicated instrument such as the budget of the european union, we have also managed to put some solidarity into practice. what has been done to migrants, the so-called refugee and refugee crisis, shows that there is still a shred of solidarity. the second is that i'm in my second year of budget reconciliation and analysis: i am sorry, once again, to hear some political forces who do not take part in the conciliation phase and then come to criticise in the chamber. thirdly, this commission and this europe will have to make many reforms next year, as many as it asks of the member states, especially on the budget.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to emphasize a point concerning the budget: we are giving money again, more money, to turkey. this country, which in recent years has received 10 billion euros from europe for pre-accession, will receive another 4.6 billion by 2020 and what is the result? that they're 90% muslim and that they shot down a russian plane today, just because it entered their airspace for 17 seconds. but they want to come to europe? they can't come to europe. this "no europe" flag means that turkey cannot join europe because it is a disgrace. turkey stays where it is because it is a friend of the islamic terrorists. that is what happened today with russia and they should be ashamed. instead of giving money to the turks, we give money to our companies or our people, not to the turks! because this is a disgrace! because we give money to those who do not love europe and who help islamic terrorists!
in writing. the 2016 budget is the result of a conciliation process, which is primarily aimed at identifying the financial means needed to meet the challenges of the moment, namely stimulating growth, creating jobs and addressing the migration crisis. i appreciate the commitment to research and development and therefore to horizon 2020. i regret, however, that the measures taken to support european farmers are too weak. the eur 698 million provided will not be sufficient to respond to the extension of the russian embargo on imports of certain agricultural products from the eu and to the very difficult situation in the dairy and pigmeat sectors in particular. good for the young people. reducing youth unemployment must remain a political priority and this will require the best use of available budgetary resources, in particular through the youth employment initiative. finally, i welcome the rigour with which parliament has dealt with the budget, although i think that more and better could and should have been done to reduce the administrative costs of the european institutions.
i would like to thank mrs rachida dati, who has often been able to listen to voices other than her own. the paris attacks have sharpened our differences. the attack on the socialists, it seems to me a bad sign. the safety of citizens is essential but there is also safety from abusive state intervention. the american post-9/11 is a lesson not to be imitated. terrorism must be fought with the rule of law: we should never do what blair did in 2003 when he said about torture: "the rules of the game have changed". what drives so many young men to join isis? three reasons not sufficiently detailed: the wars against terrorism; most of the foreign fighters are from the generation of the war on terror, a war that created chaos and isis, ruining the reputation of democracies. nor can we stockpile weapons with saudi arabia and qatar, the world's leading sponsors of terrorism. the suburbs: no investment has been made to reduce ghettoization. sarkozy's decision to cut funding to the local police was tragic. the internet and prisons are where the recruitment happens. increasing state control over the internet is not helpful and it is dangerous to blindly apply segregation in prisons.
madam president, i have a point of order about what mrs dodds said. is it possible to accuse an entire delegation from this parliament, namely sinn féin, of being complicit with isis/isis? and if that is not possible, what steps can be taken to ensure that such a shocking and implausible claim is substantiated?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i think that the debate on this report on radicalisation is coming at the wrong time, because it is clear that there is a strong emotional impulse after the events in paris and what happened in the following days, which takes the subject of the debate elsewhere. we believe that, while we share the concerns and the seriousness of the situation, it is wrong to think that the problem can be solved by a repressive system rather than by prevention. that is what we have perceived from this report. moreover, when we talk about repression we risk squeezing personal freedoms and therefore, in order to gain more freedom, we risk restricting our own. i do not think that the reaction of the states was intelligent in this case, because the attacks in afghanistan, for example, have only produced more terrorism and more problems. let us learn from history to be more farsighted and to react differently.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to congratulate mrs dati on her diligent work on a complex text which seeks to cover the various aspects of this absurd phenomenon: violent extremism and intolerance are often the children of marginalization and poverty. but these reasons can never justify this violence. the failure of integration policies has been demonstrated by the approximately 5 000 european citizens who have become foreign fighters. i do not want to fall into the trivial temptation of the mathematical equation 'refugee = terrorist', but it is of fundamental importance that checks on entry into europe be strictly enforced and that all people migrating to our continent be registered. there can be no exceptions to security. i would add to this more stringent measures for the processing of online data, the closure of the pnr trilogue with the inclusion of intra-european flights, closer cooperation with companies managing social media and, last but not least, the speedy completion of the europol reform. i conclude by quoting article 3 of the 1948 universal declaration of human rights: "everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person". without security, there is no freedom. but the reverse is not true.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sorry to say that my mobile phone has been reading that there has been an attack in roubaix, probably of islamic origin, and that there are hostages, including children. i just wanted to inform the house.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the terrible events in paris, the events of this evening in france and the events in brussels in recent days must lead us to a careful analysis of the causes which lead certain european citizens to join terrorist organizations. the bombers were young men with european passports. it is therefore essential to start a thorough reflection on the policies of socio-cultural integration if we are to prevent such events. prevention, in fact, is a word that has the idea of getting there first, and we have to get there first: before social exclusion, before radicalization, before hatred, before new tragedies occur. there is also no doubt that cooperation between judicial authorities and eurojust should be strengthened at european level to speed up the identification of suspected terrorists, and that the speed of information exchange between national law enforcement authorities and europol should be improved. the report by mr dati essentially highlights the need to act and to act together, without divisions, to initiate a constant dialogue on the prevention of radicalisation and for a concrete sharing of information to counter the recruitment of young citizens by terrorist organisations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate takes on a special significance after the attacks in paris. the tragic events of the past few days have put europe even more dramatically in front of the problem of the recruitment of citizens by terrorist organizations and the need to prevent radicalisation. these are men, women and above all young european citizens from all social backgrounds who share a sense of disconnection from society and who represent a threat to security in europe as elsewhere. but the phenomenon of radicalisation and the resulting recruitment must be combated, not only by repression, but also by effective prevention policies, by establishing an intercultural dialogue with the different religious communities, by strengthening the exchange of information between the countries of the union and by targeting money laundering that finances criminal and terrorist networks. extremism, radicalisation and the recruitment of terrorists within the union can only be effectively defeated if we are able to balance an uncompromising policy of combating terrorism with the implementation of an effective strategy of integration and social inclusion with those who are not terrorists.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to inform my colleagues: it looks like a robbery is going on in roubaix. but i wanted to stress one point about this debate, mr president. how can we in europe make the more than 500 million inhabitants of our continent believe that we are so attentive to islamic terrorism? but look at this chamber, look at this stuff! is this the way europe is discussing islamic terrorism? what is happening on this continent where european policies are destroying our civilization? as for the islamists obviously we don't have to put everyone on the same level, we would need more those who behave well are welcome. but those who behave badly, those who don't want to abide by our rules, our civilization, must leave! turkey is a country that cannot come to europe. these guys representing isis are bastards and they all have to die!
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr martin, for the work he has done and the commitment he has shown in drawing up the report on the european base metal industry. i am pleased to see in the final text the reference to the harmonization of indirect costs at european level. i am equally pleased with the reference to environmental protection, compliance with the directives on health and safety at work and greater attention to local people. the european steel industry is asking us to take immediate action, particularly to take measures against imports from china, which, with a production overcapacity of 340 million tonnes, is invading the european market at outrageous prices. the conclusions of the competitiveness council of 9 november were not satisfactory. i have therefore also put an oral question to the european commission to ask what it intends to do in the immediate future and whether it is considering the possibility of taking timely action, such as implementing countermeasures based on consumption and the actual amount of co2 emitted during production. such measures would be fully compatible with european industrial, trade and climate policies and could immediately ensure increased global competitiveness. it must be clear that the european parliament is seriously concerned about the devastating consequences that the possible recognition of china's market economy status would have on european industry, particularly manufacturing. we are talking about steel, wood, glass, chemicals, textiles, shoes, ceramics, paper, bicycles and more. i therefore ask that the committees on industry and international trade be regularly involved in this debate from now on. we are opposed to unconditional and automatic recognition, because it is clear that china does not comply with the five criteria laid down by the european union, such as the absence of state intervention in the privatisation of companies and the existence of a financial sector independent of the state. we believe that, faced with such a serious choice, with one year to go, the public should be able to know a clear position from the european commission, which is only confused and late at the moment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are discussing this evening - and i thank mr martin, the rapporteur for this initiative - a subject which is absolutely central to the development model we want to give our continent from an economic point of view. the rapporteur, in my view - and here we are overcoming the differences which sometimes block dialogue between the parties - has given a useful and correct reading of the problem of the base metals industry in europe. we have an imminent threat, to which we are reacting in a very timid way. the threat is multi-faceted. we have a conception of work and industry which is very different from the conception outside our continent. we have a very different idea of how to treat workers than they have outside of this continent. we have very different energy costs than we have outside this continent, and let me tell you, we have much better environmental performance than we have outside this continent. our priority today is to defend a development model which has seen our industry achieve absolute excellence. this report on energy, indirect costs, compensation, the harmonization of such compensation, the idea of developing the ets and, within a discussion which, as has been said, must protect us from the risk of china being granted market economy status ..... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to sincerely thank the rapporteur, mr martin, for the work he has done and for having taken up a challenge, which i believe is the challenge we face when we talk about steel, namely that of not abandoning a key production sector but, at the same time, not making the maintenance, definition and, i hope, following paris, the implementation of those environmental standards which must be a pillar of the construction of the union, conditional on anything. we 're talking about a system that 's collapsing . i am referring to my country, italy, where plants such as those in terni and piombino are experiencing a very serious crisis, which we have also discussed in this house. i also think it should be borne in mind - and here i am again referring to italy - that there are situations like that in taranto, which i hope the envi committee of this parliament will visit as soon as possible, where people are still dying. that's what can't happen and that people die... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe needs a real industrial policy if it is to emerge from the crisis and create jobs, and without industry there is no growth and there is no industrial policy without steel. the steel sector is facing a very difficult challenge, especially with china, a country which does not respect environmental rules and plays the game of unfair competition. and it's not just china: we must also look with concern at belarus and turkey. what do you do? first of all: we ask the commission to submit an annual report on the implementation of the steel action plan approved two years ago. secondly: i believe that new competition rules are also needed to enable european industry to compete in the world. thirdly: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's trade defence instruments are applied consistently, particularly anti-dumping measures. today the procedures are too long and take away the effectiveness of the instruments. we call on the commission to reduce the duration of the investigation and to ensure the timely imposition of provisional measures. that's not all! europe cannot grant china market economy status because china does not meet the five criteria of the union legislation for granting market economy status. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a negative impact on growth and social cohesion, which the european commission cannot and must not accept.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the world's steelworks produce 1.8 tonnes of steel, but we consume only one and a half tonnes. we have 300 million overcapacity. the surplus is increasing but the market is not able to absorb the supply. by 2030, the eu's share will fall to 9% of world production; china will account for 51%. of the world's top 50 producers, at least 30 will be chinese, and only 4 will be european. but we must also consider the availability of the planet's iron reserves, which are estimated to be 65 years old. the reserves are also running out in the steel raw materials sector. in order to forge more steel, must we naturally inflate global economic demand, for example by building large unnecessary buildings and producing more unnecessary cars? we are called upon to propose alternatives to this economic and ecological failure. we must understand how much steel we really need and produce it in a way that respects safety, health and the environment. this also means closing obsolete plants and investing in research aimed at sustainability, encouraging the conversion to the green economy and the circular economy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we see how little europe means in this area too, and how it fails to do what it should. it does not defend the steel industry and lets the chinese and the turks do as they please. europe's rules are not those of china or turkey, and the only ones who really defend themselves with their teeth are the united states. but why can't we copy the things that others do well? for example, the us makes sure that china cannot afford to do what it wants there! why do we let them do it here? and then we complain with crocodile tears because we are losing jobs, because we have no industry, because there are big problems in england, as there are in italy and in other european countries as well, with the result that europe counts less and less in this field, counts less and less against islamic terrorism, counts less and less on alternative energies, counts less and less on everything. the final result will be that europe will go further and further back and the others will go further and further forward.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the future of the european union depends not only on its political leadership and security but also on its economic strength and its industrial weight. europe cannot be a continent dependent on external production. it would be weak without its excellences and fragile, because at the mercy of outside powers. we have already seen the process of deindustrialization and delocalisation. it has hit us, it has impoverished employment and productivity, it has reduced our gdp. it is now time to open our eyes and react, leading a new process of defending and equating the sustainable production system in the global reality, starting with the most complex and strategic sectors such as steel, and i thank my colleague martin very much for this work. increasing and often unfair, i would say sometimes illegal, competition from outside europe, lack of investment in innovation and production, lack of access to raw materials, rising and anti-competitive energy prices and environmental sustainability are the main challenges for the sector. if we want to speak clearly, the things to do are quite obvious, and also the things not to do. europe should be proud of its steel industry: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not only a good one, but also a good one. martin used a bold word, "aggressive". i would say aggressive too. there is unfair competition from some countries, starting with china, which has huge overcapacity - figures have been supplied - and is dumping with lower prices in europe than in china. that is why we are extremely opposed - i say this to the commissioner, who is very sensitive, so that she can refer this to the whole house - to granting china the status of a market economy, and we are also opposed to half-answers, to splitting the answer, that is to say yes to some sectors and no to others, because that would be a failure, a hole with very dangerous consequences. we ask the commission to work with us on this dossier, as has already been said, and we will not accept a proposal which goes over parliament's head.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if the commission considers china to be a market economy at the end of 2016, the metal industry will be hit hard. china has a huge steel surplus, which it obtains by subsidizing production and selling it through unfair trade practices. it alone produces 50% of all world production, i.e. 1.6 billion tonnes, which are waiting to be dumped on our market and which will be able to do so if the commission does not oppose it. with the steelworks already in crisis, this will be the final blow! and that is why i understand an agreement which recognises chinese dumping, sector by sector, and thus protects the steel industry. but i think it would be much better to think product by product. let me give you an example from other sectors: the commission therefore concluded that the measures in force against china are not in line with the findings of the investigation. if we look at it by sector, we cannot continue to protect our tile producers and this applies to thousands of other products. so please, let us not let the commission sell our production like this.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased that mr christensen has taken some of our suggestions positively and included them in his document, which comes out loud from this parliament: the simplification of obligations for small and mediumsized enterprises, which does not mean reducing protection for workers, but simply giving the possibility of applying simple, clear and certain rules, and the stimulation of greater social dialogue which makes workers and employers aware of the importance of health and safety in the workplace. we are particularly pleased that the subject of asbestos is strongly included in this document: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so we support mr christensen's report and thank him for his cooperation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to take a few seconds to express my sincere congratulations to mr christensen on his report, a brilliant compromise between the political groups, but one which has not lost its high political and technical value. so i thank you for your work. the text, in my view, puts a black and white on a very central element, namely the worrying correlation between the economic crisis and its social impact, precariousness and the very dangerous lowering of the quality of health and safety standards associated with it. we cannot accept that jobs in europe are created by giving up these rights. this would cause enormous damage to the union's economy itself. the social europe of its citizens also means paying the utmost attention to this issue, which cannot be sacrificed to the doctrine of regulatory simplification, to cutting the so-called red tape that, to hear some comments, would seem to be sinking companies. the resolution is also clear on this point: the european commission is sensitive to the health and safety of workers, particularly in its overall legislative refit. being competitive cannot mean giving up our principles.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe will not be changed by terrorism. by remaining ourselves, we will wipe out the terror. for many of our cities - i think of paris, brussels - this is the most difficult time since the second world war. our fellow citizens have never felt so threatened. we all feel a big hole inside: but this must not become europe's 9/11. we must not allow fear and the logic of emergency to become the norm; we must not fall for the blackmail of terrorists who want to push us towards division. this is the time for unity and responsibility! anyone who thinks he can win electoral support by breaking up the european front and by flaunting the false equation - juncker said so, weber said so - 'refugee = terrorist' is a vulture who is the enemy of the european citizens. we need more europe, closer to france, closer to françois hollande, closer to all french citizens, closer to tunisia, stronger in the world, wherever these bastards are taking victims. hollande has invoked article 42 and the member states must answer in the affirmative. but we can go further, we can go beyond the intergovernmental dimension, by affirming european community measures. the union must therefore, as president juncker has said, take the initiative in the field of security and defence. president juncker has announced greater flexibility in the application of the stability pact to security expenditure. this flexibility must apply to all the member states of the union which invest in security. it is clear that we will win the battle against terrorism if we invest economically and politically in trained intelligence services and if we facilitate their coordination at european level. we need more than just technology: we need 'super-skilled' human resources, capable of dealing with the new profile of jihadist terrorism. more europe also means applying schengen in its entirety and not dismantling it, because there are already measures within the treaty which can and must be implemented to ensure greater and better protection at the external borders. our group has worked and will work consistently to reach an agreement on the european pnr by the end of the year. we also want to ensure the privacy rights of citizens together, and so the two dossiers on european pnr and data protection go hand in hand, as mandated by this parliament. to defeat terrorism, we also need a real reflection on our society. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. europe must reaffirm its model of a cohesive and supportive society and it must be made clear that islam is part of the identity of this continent and has nothing in common with the ideology of death of daesh. in foreign policy too, europe must be europe. the funding channels must be cut; the european union must be able to take action against daesh, and we must also be able to take action against the criminal, money laundering and human trafficking networks, and against the hypocrisy of certain gulf states. europe must act as vice-president mogherini is doing, by ensuring a role as a mediator between states and actors on the ground. we need a broad coalition, including the muslim countries in the region, together with the european union, russia and america, to defeat terrorism.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. today is the world day against violence against women. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. i also believe that we have to defeat the culture that leads to having female police in raqqa and having women in cages being sold for 10 dollars to isis fighters.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the attacks in paris, which we all condemn in the strongest possible terms, there is a high risk that fear will again dictate the political line in europe and do so in the wrong way. declaring war on terror with more war and more terror is not the answer. since 9/11, us military action has been followed by new casualties, new terrorist groups, destabilisation in areas of the world and migration flows. history teaches us that most terrorist organizations are neutralized through political processes aimed at eliminating all forms of support for terrorist groups and not through the direct use of military force. the terrorist threat today does not come from outside europe alone but from within it: we have seen that many of the perpetrators of the attacks are young people, european citizens who were born here, who live here, and that it is also the economic and social factors responsible for social exclusion, inequalities, discrimination, lack of integration, that predispose them to violence. we should then ask ourselves whether these economic and social factors, these european economic and social policies, are not also failing and complicit in the formation of this terrorism. the aim must therefore be to prevent radicalisation through education, tolerance, mutual respect for cultures and social inclusion. the second is to overcome the reluctance of states to share more intelligence, which is essential in countering cross-border terrorism. the hope is that fundamental rights will not be violated again in the name of security.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the threat posed by the bombings is more serious than any other, because in the face of violence far away, in the traditional theatres of war, we think we know the dynamics, that we have the tools to counter it, even if we have made many mistakes. but in the face of the violence that is close to the carnage in the neighbourhoods of europe, in our daily places, we feel, in addition to fear, the uneasiness of the incomprehensible. why here? and why by young people who sometimes have a european passport? it 's hard to understand why . but it can't be just madness, for a young man who grew up with us to be drawn to a fanatical choice and kill other young people like him and, together, the ideals of freedom and tolerance. we certainly need immediate security responses, but there's something else very uncomfortable to do, something more: it is a response at the level of culture, of dialogue, to give each person of different culture and religion his dignity, within a shared framework. there is a prevention and integration work that needs to be done in schools, and education. the space of coexistence and coexistence is never the fruit of chance but the result of a demanding and intelligent work of formation. if we don't, closing borders and raising barriers won't save us, because the unease and the revolt will go beyond the walls and the internet will do the rest. security, of course, must be immediate. we call for common intelligence and it is essential to tackle the thorny problem of arms trafficking, oil smuggling and the hidden financing of terrorist networks.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are not in the mood for polemics today, much less for "political politics". but we want and need a little clarity, a little truth. we need to get out of the stifling rhetoric of political correctness, which even pope francis has repeatedly stigmatized as hypocritical language. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. security and individual freedom. then i say it not in my own words but in the words of carlo nordio, an important and respected italian magistrate: the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it is the european parliament that has always been a party to the treaty of rome. that's got to be clear! the abstract principles of benevolence are not enough. if we really want to defend our values which derive from the dual greek-enlightenment and judeo-christian traditions, we must do what the council has said: we need solidarity in action, but a determined solidarity capable of defending our citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we think we know what is going to happen, but we do not. it is not true, not only because we are facing unprecedented trials; the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it is not only the european parliament that has been involved in the process of european integration, but also the european parliament itself. in this context, it is likely that the governments in paris and brussels could not have done otherwise than to take the measures adopted. however, i wonder if we are equally aware of the risks that lie behind the prolongation of the states of emergency, which inevitably point the finger at muslim communities and their neighbourhoods and which makes every maghreb, in many circumstances and at certain hours of the day, the individual suspect who will be legally stopped, searched, interrogated and detained. there are lessons behind us already, like the one that comes to us from the distant 17 october 1961 in paris, which we must not forget. daesh is certainly the most barbaric and cruel of the jihadist movements but it is not without strategy. so we must be careful how we move to avoid objectively favouring what we want to fight, namely recruitment.
in writing. the brutal terrorist attacks that have struck paris in recent days have shocked and left us breathless. as we are discussing this, another city in the heart of europe, our european city, brussels, is under siege, its citizens locked up in their homes and tanks in the streets. the war is no longer at our doorstep, it is in our homes and we must do something about it. the european union must have a genuine common foreign and security policy. we must all be united against terrorism in europe and against this phantom islamic state which is nothing but a gang of criminals who are holding the western world in check with their ferocity and their disregard for the lives of others, but also their own, because they are ready to blow themselves up in order to kill. to win against those who have a cult of death we must be united and convinced defenders of our values, our being christians, the value of life and solidarity. our division is a stronghold for the daesh rebels, who are much outnumbered by us, but who exploit our inability to coordinate.
in writing. after the charlie hebdo attacks last january, the violent attacks in central paris on friday 13 november have once again shocked france, striking not only at the heart of europe as a whole, but above all at its identity, its values and its fundamental freedoms. the union, its institutions and its member states must now act with firmness and unity in the face of the challenge posed by terrorism of a fundamentalist origin. this will require the development of a common strategy, including the creation of a european intelligence system and immediate measures to combat terrorism, such as the strengthening of europol and the opening of the european counter-terrorism centre. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome step towards the creation of a european company. the time has come to make a qualitative leap in completing the european union's integration project, also in areas such as intelligence and security, without this meaning that we have to abdicate our rights acquired in 60 years of history, such as the right to free movement.
in writing. ‒ there are still ambiguous passages in the report which i do not share, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ amending budget no 8 concerns the revision of the forecasts for traditional own resources (eu taxes) and the balances relating to vat and gross national income (gni). in particular, it provides for a eur 123 000 cut to the eu data protection supervisor and a eur 9,4 billion reduction in member states' gni-based contributions. these are undoubtedly positive elements. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take action to combat fraud. it regrets that the member states have not yet been able to reach an agreement on using these economic returns to finance the trust funds for africa, syria and the un refugee agencies, which were also confirmed at the recent valletta summit. let me be clear: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the financial contribution to the european union. this could help to limit illegal immigration flows. what we do not agree with is the tone of the reproach directed at the member states: if there is still no agreement on how to act, it is also because of the serious mistakes made by the eu institutions in the management of the whole immigration thing.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 8/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, own resources and european data protection supervisor. in line with the report, i regret that it was not possible to reach a final compromise in the conciliation on the use of the proceeds from draft amending budget no 8/2015 to deal with the refugee crisis. further financial efforts will therefore be needed to provide humanitarian assistance along transit routes and to meet the challenges of hosting unprecedented numbers of refugees in european cities and regions.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 8/2015 has the effect of reducing member states' contributions to the union budget by eur 9,4 billion by amending both the revenue and expenditure forecasts. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to vote in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the council's position on draft amending budget no 8/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015 presented by the commission. parliament noted the reduction of member states' contributions to the union budget by eur 9 403.4 million, endorsed the council's position and instructed the president of parliament to ensure that the resolution was published in the ordinary legal order and forwarded to the council, the commission, the court of auditors and the national parliaments. parliament stressed the need for additional financial resources for the current refugee crisis and noted that the member states' financial commitments for the trust funds for africa and syria and for the un agencies for refugee assistance had not yet been honoured. the overall reduction in contributions of eur 9 403,4 million includes a reduction of eur 123 474,00 in commitment and payment appropriations in the budget of the european data protection supervisor, resulting from the saving of eur 56 160 for transitional allowances and the reimbursement to the edps of eur 67 314 following the amending budgets adopted by the translation centre's management board.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft amending budget for the financial year 2015. i think this is a fair proposal and one which is in line with the crisis we are going through, considering three main aspects: the draft amending budget provides for an update of the forecasts for other revenue, foresees a reduction of eur 123 474 in commitment and payment appropriations in the budget of the european data protection supervisor and also entails a reduction of eur 9,4 billion in contributions from member states. that is why i support the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of the amending budget for 2015, as it provides for the revision of certain technical measures concerning the reduction of member states' contributions to the union budget and the reduction of the commitment and payment appropriations in the budget of the european data protection supervisor. the draft amendment also contains measures on the application of customs duties and updating the forecasts for other revenue. the provisions and financial allocation needed to deal with the current refugee crisis are also of paramount importance: this document provides for the allocation of substantial additional financial resources to provide humanitarian assistance along transit routes and to meet the challenges of hosting large numbers of refugees in europe's cities and regions.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 8/2015 concerns a revision of the estimates for traditional own resources (customs duties, + eur 0,8 billion), the accounting of the remaining vat and gni balances for 2014 (+ eur 5,7 billion) and the accounting of the vat and gni balances for 2015 (+ eur 1,4 billion); the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the commission has also received a request from the united kingdom to amend the list of eligible costs for the purposes of article 2 of the commission's 2014-2020 guidelines. on the basis of this proposal i am voting in favour, as it is estimated that the member states will use these additional resources to devote them to the immigration issue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the draft amending budget of the european union for 2015, as more than ever there is a need to coordinate further financial efforts to provide humanitarian assistance and to meet the challenges of hosting an unprecedented number of refugees in europe's cities and regions. i 'm not .
in writing. ‒ i can only abstain on this draft amending budget: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution by mrs eider gardiazabal rubial on draft amending budget no 8/2015. the eba 8 will result in more efficient management of resources and consequently in a reduction in transfers from the member states to the eu of more than eur 9 billion. at the same time, it shall allocate resources in accordance with financial needs to provide humanitarian assistance along migration transit routes and to address the challenges of receiving migrants.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the 'draft amending budget no 8/2015: own resources and the european data protection supervisor'. this report concerns a revision of the customs duty forecasts, together with an accounting of the remaining vat and gni balances for 2014, with accounting of the 2016 vat and gni balances, providing an update to the forecasts of other revenue. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the effect is to reduce member states' contributions to the union budget by eur 9 403.4 million. it is also right that there should be substantial additional financial resources for the effective management of the refugee crisis, together with provisions for humanitarian assistance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 8/2015. this project takes account of the additional resources needed by the member states to deal with the refugee crisis, and consequently reduces their contributions to the union budget by eur 9 403.4 million. despite this need, the project notes that the various financial commitments by member states, for example those relating to the trust fund for africa or the trust fund for syria and the un refugee assistance agencies, have not yet been honoured. the project highlights, however, that additional financial efforts will be needed to provide humanitarian assistance along transit routes and to address the challenges of hosting refugees.
in writing. ‒ the migration crisis that europe has been facing for some time now, as we all know, requires the use of considerable financial resources and unfortunately the efforts that we have all made, member states and the union, do not seem to be enough so far. in this regard, while regretting the failure to reach an agreement on the reuse of the revenues from the 2015 budget to support the migrant emergency, and being confident that in any case the commitment of everyone on the issue will remain alive, i decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 8/2015 concerns a revision of the estimates of traditional own resources (customs duties), the accounting of the remaining vat and gni balances for 2014 and the accounting of the vat and gni balances for 2015. the draft amending budget no 8/2015 also provides for a reduction of eur 123 474 in commitment and payment appropriations in the budget of the european data protection supervisor. although i voted in favour of the draft amending budget adopted on 19 october, i regret that it was not possible to reach a final compromise in the conciliation procedure on the use of the remaining amounts in the draft amending budget to deal with the current refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the council's position on draft amending budget no 8/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, tabled by the committee on budgets. this project provides for a reduction of eur 123 474 in commitment and payment appropriations in the budget of the european data protection supervisor and entails a reduction of eur 9,4 billion in member states' contributions to the budget of the european union.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 8/2015 concerns a revision of the estimates for traditional own resources (customs duties, + eur 0,8 billion), the accounting of the remaining vat and gni balances for 2014 (+ eur 5,7 billion) and the accounting of the vat and gni balances for 2015 (+ eur 1,4 billion); the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. the commission has also received a request from the united kingdom to amend the list of eligible costs for the purposes of article 2 of the commission's 2014-2020 guidelines. it is essentially a technical amendment which i voted for, considering also that it estimates that the member states will use these additional resources to devote them to the immigration issue, which is of fundamental importance at this time.
in writing. ‒ the migration crisis is affecting europe, particularly countries such as italy, which, due to its geographical location, are inevitably the entry point for most migrants. to deal with this crisis, exceptional measures are needed, which also allow the budget to be exceeded. article 11 of the regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 provides for the possibility to use the flexibility instrument to finance exceptional expenditure; it was therefore decided to use this special instrument to allocate an amount of eur 1.5 billion. although i am against the overall agreement on the eu budget, i felt that such a measure was necessary because an immediate response is needed to deal with and manage the immigration emergency in europe. for these reasons, my vote was in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the flexibility instrument to deal with the refugee crisis because this appropriation allows, albeit partially, for all member states to share the financial commitment to manage the phenomenon.
in writing. ‒ the report on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument in favour of immediate budgetary measures to deal with the refugee crisis marks a decisive step in the implementation of a manoeuvre that touches on a sensitive issue for the european union. it is a very positive sign that the document provides for appropriations totalling eur 1 530 million until 2019 to ensure greater flexibility in the eu budget; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the basis of a concrete decision, recognising the need to mobilise urgent resources to deal with a situation which seriously challenges the whole of the eu.
in writing. ‒ the european agenda on migration is a field of action of particular relevance and importance for the union, given the scale of the historical, social and political events that the euro-mediterranean area is experiencing. we therefore consider it a matter of priority to enable the member states of the union to mobilise resources, even extraordinary ones, to deal with the emergency in the best possible way and with all the readiness and speed of action that the events unfolding in recent weeks are suggesting to us.
in writing. ‒ the vote concerns the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance measures relating to the 'refugee crisis'. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. this measure has become necessary because the budget lines for these items for the financial year 2016 have been used up. our delegation is firmly opposed to most of the proposed union measures in the field of immigration. sometimes, however, the option is to vote in favour of eu budget appropriations so that at least the financial commitment is shared by all eu member states. apart from my firm opposition to certain attitudes of the european institutions, the political position with which i express my vote in favour today is to signal the need for more resources and a greater concrete commitment on the part of the european union, without too much burden falling on the member states (including italy) which are more easily confronted with the migration emergency.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures to deal with the refugee crisis, in accordance with point 12 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management. as indicated in the report, the mobilisation of this instrument indicates the absolute need to ensure greater flexibility for the union budget to finance the urgent measures that need to be put in place to respond to the increasing flow of migration to europe and the refugee crisis. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ article 11 of the regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 provides for the possibility of using the flexibility instrument to finance exceptional expenditure which could not be financed within the available ceilings of one or more headings. this is the case with regard to the immigration issue, since the measures envisaged by the eu commission exceeded the limits for the year 2016 provided for under heading 3 (security and citizenship) and, to a lesser extent, also under heading 4 (global europe). it was therefore decided to use this special instrument for an amount of eur 1.5 billion. the payment appropriations will amount to eur 734 million in 2016, eur 654 million in 2017, eur 83 million in 2018 and eur 58 million in 2019. although i am against the overall agreement on the eu budget, i believe that this measure is necessary for an immediate european response to the management of the immigration emergency, which now affects different european fronts.
in writing. ‒ the various crises that the european union has been facing for years, from economic to migration, have led to frequent use of the european budget's flexibility instrument. this is also the case for financing and implementing the actions included in the european agenda on migration in 2016, which required an increase in resources of eur 1,530 million, made possible by the amounts not used in the budgetary years 2014 and 2015. the fact that all available budgetary surpluses have already been allocated to tackle the refugee crisis in europe means that no additional amount can be carried over to the financial year 2017, so that in case of emergency situations the budgetary flexibility can be increased to a maximum of eur 471 million per year. the need to reopen the political debate on budgetary flexibility is quite clear, because in times of difficulty and uncertainty political and economic developments may require frequent adjustments and the union will need to be able to intervene, to strengthen its policies and, if necessary, to trigger extraordinary measures. i voted in favour of the report in the hope that we will start thinking about this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure. the report deals with the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures to deal with the refugee crisis. council regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 of 2 december 2013 establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 authorises the use of the flexibility instrument to allow for the financing of clearly identified expenditure which could not be financed within the limits of the available ceilings of one or more headings of the multiannual financial framework. after examining all possibilities for reallocating appropriations, the commission proposes to mobilise the flexibility instrument, for which the maximum annual amount available is eur 471 million, for an amount of eur 1 504.0 million over and above the ceiling of heading 3 of the multiannual financial framework in order to finance support for measures to manage the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because, as agreed by the council, we need to deal with the migration emergency and that is why we need resources. the proposal would explain the need to mobilise the flexibility instrument for commitment appropriations for the financial year 2016 even beyond the ceiling of heading 3 in order to better address the case of migration in europe. i think that the immigrant problem is the main problem the eu is trying to tackle today, and for this reason i think it is right to unblock large amounts of funding to improve and manage the existing situation. europe must show a strong sign of solidarity and strength in this situation, and this proposal seems to me to be more than appropriate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this decision approving the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance measures relating to migration and refugees. this is a very serious problem and it shows no sign of abating. in fact, the escalation of conflict in the middle east and africa, which we have seen in recent weeks, is further increasing the refugee phenomenon. in view of the exhaustion of the amounts foreseen for the years 2014 and 2015, it was necessary to provide for additional amounts to secure resources in the period 2016-2018. this operation once again demonstrates the need to ensure greater and appropriate flexibility for the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 provides for the possibility to use the flexibility instrument to finance exceptional expenditure which could not be financed within the available ceilings of one or more headings. it deals with immigration issues and, to a lesser extent, with the global europe section. it was therefore decided to use this special instrument for an amount of eur 1.5 billion. the payment appropriations will amount to eur 734 million in 2016, eur 654 million in 2017, eur 83 million in 2018 and eur 58 million in 2019. the call for mobilisation of this instrument is an integral part of the agreement on the budget of the european union for 2016, although it was voted on separately. my vote on this report is in favour.
in writing. ‒ our delegation is firmly opposed to most of the measures envisaged by the union in the field of immigration. but in this case we are voting in favour because we are asking all the member states to make a concrete commitment to respond to the immigration emergency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the allocation of immediate budgetary measures to deal with the migrant crisis. we are facing an unprecedented crisis and it is necessary to use the tools at our disposal, stressing that solidarity must always go hand in hand with responsibility.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument in favour of immediate budgetary measures to deal with the refugee crisis because i believe that the eu must show solidarity and unity in the face of challenges of an epochal nature, such as the refugee crisis. i believe that what we are witnessing in europe is not a transitory phenomenon but the consequence of the serious crises and wars that are ravaging various parts of the world, of the increase in poverty and inequality on a global scale, of the constant denial of the right to a life of dignity and peace for a large part of the world's population. the phenomenon of migration is the main challenge of our century, and i therefore believe that the eu budget should support, through the flexibility instrument, those countries which are at the forefront of managing flows, so that they can implement policies to take charge of and welcome asylum seekers. i also believe that this decision clearly shows the seriousness of the situation and that the question of financial resources for emergencies in the years ahead must be addressed as soon as possible and in an appropriate manner by the member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr fernandes' report. the reason for my agreement is that this measure is: europe's awareness of the need for further efforts in crisis and refugee management. the measure involves the extraordinary mobilisation of the flexibility instrument, amounting to eur 1 504 million, to support measures to manage the refugee crisis. this is a concrete measure to help us deal with the emergency, which is now taking on the connotations of ordinary administration.
in writing. ‒ favourable to the report on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for budgetary measures to deal with the refugee crisis. the mobilisation is intended to finance support for measures to manage the refugee crisis through a series of payment appropriations spread over several budgetary years, amounting to eur 1 504,0 million. in view of the urgent needs, a substantial additional amount should be mobilised to finance measures to alleviate the migration and refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ the draft under comment approves the extraordinary mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for an amount of eur 1 530 million in commitment appropriations and approves the allocation of payment appropriations for an amount of eur 734.2 million in 2016, eur 654.2 million in 2017, eur 83 million in 2018 and eur 58.6 million in 2019. i believe that such an instrument should be used and i therefore vote in favour of the proposal because of the absolute need to ensure greater flexibility for the union's budget in the face of the social and economic refugee crisis which the union is about to tackle in the most decisive way.
in writing. ‒ recalling also in connection with this decision that the migration emergency requires a major financial effort for the union as a whole, i welcomed the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument, in the framework of the 2016 budget, for eur 1 506 million. i voted in favour of the report, stressing the need to ensure greater flexibility for the union budget in dealing with emergency situations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of using the flexibility instrument to finance some urgent measures to deal with the external dimension of the refugee crisis. the total amount mobilised is eur 1 504 million under the multiannual financial framework. in view of the fact that the ceilings for heading 3 (security and citizenship) and heading 4 (global europe) provided for in the 2016 eu budget were found to be insufficient, it became necessary to use this instrument. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. i also believe that the use of the flexibility instrument is a clear signal of the need to ensure greater flexibility in the eu budget so that it is more responsive in responding to crisis situations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it provides for immediate budgetary measures to deal with the refugee emergency. the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 authorises the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument, which extends payment appropriations spread over several budgetary years for a total amount of eur 1 506 million. the text provides for the full mobilisation of the flexibility instrument in 2016 to deal with the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ article 11 of the regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 provides for the possibility of using the flexibility instrument to finance exceptional expenditure which could not be financed within the available ceilings of one or more headings. this is the case with regard to the immigration issue, as the measures envisaged by the eu commission exceeded the limits for the year 2016 provided for under heading 3 (security and citizenship) and, to a lesser extent, also under heading 4 (global europe). it was therefore decided to use this special instrument for an amount of eur 1.5 billion. the payment appropriations will amount to eur 734 million in 2016, eur 654 million in 2017, eur 83 million in 2018 and eur 58 million in 2019. the call for mobilisation of this instrument is an integral part of the agreement on the budget of the european union for 2016, although it was voted on separately. although i am against the overall agreement on the eu budget, this measure is necessary to provide an immediate european response to the management of the immigration emergency, which now affects different european fronts.
in writing. ‒ following the severe floods in central europe in 2002, the eu established the eu solidarity fund (eusf) to enable the union to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to emergency situations and to show solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters. unfortunately, the bureaucratic procedures for accessing the funds are very complex and the quotas that can be agreed are really very small. i have put two questions to that effect: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission, calling for an increase in the appropriations for the fund and for simplification of procedures. the report adopted examines article 4a of the regulation establishing the solidarity fund, which provides for the possibility of mobilising the fund up to a maximum amount of eur 50 000 000 for the payment of advances and the entry of the corresponding appropriations in the general budget of the union. this report calls for an amount equal to the ceiling of eur 50 million in appropriations, commitments and payments to be mobilised in the general budget for 2016 for the payment of advances. i hope that this measure will speed up the european union's response to major natural disasters. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the solidarity fund is an important support instrument that europe makes available to member states affected by major natural disasters. its effectiveness depends mainly on two variables: the flexibility and rapidity of activation. as this report considers and improves both aspects, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the eu solidarity fund (eusf) was established to enable the union to respond to emergencies caused by major natural disasters and to show solidarity with regions affected by such events. the fund may provide financial support to member states and countries engaged in accession negotiations which have been affected by major natural disasters, i.e. where the total direct damage caused by the disaster exceeds eur 3 billion, equal to 0,6% of the gni of the country concerned, whichever is the lower. it may also be mobilised in the event of a regional disaster. the mff regulation for the period 2014-2020 (article 10) allows the mobilisation of the fund up to an annual ceiling of eur 500 million, above the limits of the relevant headings of the financial framework. the proposal aims to enter in the general budget of the union for 2016 an amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations for the timely and efficient payment of advances in the event of disasters occurring in the coming year. the aim is to speed up the disbursement of aid to the countries concerned by paying an advance before the final decision is taken.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, in accordance with point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, for the payment of advances in the 2016 budget. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was established to enable the union to respond to emergency situations caused by major natural disasters and to show solidarity with the regions affected by such events. however, the proposal in question is not linked to a specific case of natural disaster. the objective of this regulation is to enter in the general budget of the union for 2016 an amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations for the timely and efficient payment of advances in the event of disasters occurring in the coming year. this measure will speed up the disbursement of aid to the affected countries by paying an advance before the final decision on granting is taken, thus improving the effectiveness of the fund.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund should enable the union to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to emergency situations and to show solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters. the fund shall be capped at eur 500 million. the report by mr christoforou calls for an amount equal to the ceiling of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations to be mobilised under the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 under the european union solidarity fund for the payment of advances. i voted in favour of this proposal because it could speed up the eu's response to major natural disasters.
in writing. - i voted for the measure. the report concerns the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was established to enable the union to respond to emergency situations caused by major natural disasters and to show solidarity with the regions affected by such events, by providing financial support to member states and countries involved in accession negotiations. the current proposal is not linked to a specific case of natural disaster; rather, it seeks to enter in the general budget of the union for 2016 an amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations for the timely and efficient payment of advances in the event of disasters occurring in the coming year. this is to speed up the disbursement of aid to the countries concerned by paying an advance before the final decision on granting is taken, thus improving the effectiveness of the fund. the ep recalls that the eu solidarity fund is not just another form of financial support from the union, but also helps to send a clear political message of solidarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because it makes the fund more effective by advancing payments before the final grant decision is taken. this fund may provide financial support to member states and countries involved in accession negotiations which have been affected by major natural disasters, i.e. where the total direct damage caused by the disaster exceeds eur 3 billion (2011 prices), equivalent to 0,6% of the gni of the country concerned. i agree with the rapporteur that the eu solidarity fund is not just another form of support from the union, but it helps to send a clear political message of solidarity, which i believe the eu must engage with every instrument at its disposal. the european union can only achieve these objectives by means of a rapid response capability, which in this case may take the form of an advance. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ given the danger of natural disasters and the economic and psychological difficulties faced by the people in the affected territories in trying to get back to their normal daily lives, i believe it is essential to provide them with the utmost support and assistance. in this regard, the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was established to enable the union to respond to emergency situations caused by major natural disasters and to show solidarity with the regions affected by such events. i also believe that there is a need to provide additional guarantees for those in difficulty, which is why i voted in favour of the current proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council to enter in the general budget of the union for 2016 the amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations for the timely and efficient payment of advances in the event of a disaster in the coming year. the eu solidarity fund is not only a form of union financial support, but also helps to send a clear political message of solidarity, while providing the necessary assistance to the affected areas.
in writing. ‒ the solidarity fund should enable the union to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to emergency situations and to show solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters. that report calls for the mobilisation of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations from the european union solidarity fund in the general budget of the european union for 2016 for the payment of advances and the entry of the corresponding appropriations in the general budget of the union. my vote on that matter could only be positive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the above motion for a resolution on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for 2016. the purpose of the latter is to speed up the disbursement of aid to the countries concerned by paying an advance before the final decision on granting aid is taken, thus improving the effectiveness of the fund.
in writing. ‒ our delegation supports this proposal concerning the eu solidarity fund, which was set up to enable the union to respond to emergencies caused by major natural disasters and to help the areas affected by such events.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for the payment of advances in the 2016 budget because i believe it is necessary to transfer the resources available in the solidarity fund as quickly as possible to those countries affected by disasters and calamities. i think it is important that the eu budget for 2016 includes eur 50 000 000 in commitment and payment appropriations which can be advanced directly to the state affected by the disaster as first aid, in the context of the decision-making process on the mobilisation of the solidarity fund for the specific case. it is very important, in the case of unexpected tragedies or disasters, to provide immediate support and show immediate closeness beyond the formal procedures, knowing that these amounts can be recovered if unjustified. i therefore welcome parliament's decision to push for this preventive measure because i consider it an important political signal that goes in the direction of solidarity and friendship between the eu states.
in writing. point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament and the council provides for the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund to enable the union to respond rapidly, efficiently and flexibly to emergency situations and to show solidarity with the population of regions struck by disasters. i have decided to vote in favour of the report by mr lefteris christoforou because it provides for an allocation of eur 50 million for 2016 for emergency management in the first part of next year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for the payment of advances in the 2016 budget. the european union solidarity fund enables europe to respond rapidly to the emergency situations of the population in regions affected by disasters by providing the necessary assistance to the affected areas. the objective of this proposal is to enter in the general budget of the european union for 2016 a total amount of eur 501 million in commitment and payment appropriations in the event of disasters in the coming year.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund is designed to enable the union to respond more quickly and efficiently to emergency situations in a spirit of solidarity with the people of regions affected by disasters. article 4a (4) of regulation (ec) no 2012/2002 provides that the fund may be mobilised for an amount of up to eur 50 000 000 for the payment of advances, which has been done in this case for the year 2016. the current proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council, to which i am voting in favour, is not linked to a specific case but rather aims to enter in the general budget of the union for 2016 a certain amount in commitment and payment appropriations for the timely and efficient payment of advances in the event of a disaster in the coming year.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done and i reiterate the ideas expressed earlier about the need for greater flexibility in the mobilisation of european funds, given the current crisis and emergency situations. i strongly support the allocation of additional financial aid to the union solidarity fund and i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to enable the eu to respond to emergencies caused by major natural disasters and to show solidarity with regions affected by such events. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi) and the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi). i believe that the eusf is one of the best examples, in practice, of the spirit of solidarity which should always be at the heart of the integration process. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for the payment of advances in the 2016 budget, as the solidarity fund makes it possible to deal with emergency situations caused by major natural disasters. recalling that italy has also often used these funds to deal with floods or fires, i agree to support the mobilisation of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations, which will be used by the european union to help states affected by emergency situations.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was created to respond to major natural disasters and to express european solidarity with the affected regions within europe. the fund was set up in the wake of the severe floods that devastated central europe in the summer of 2002. since then, it has been used as many as 70 times in response to different types of environmental disasters, including floods, wildfires, earthquakes, storms and droughts. the proposal for a decision i have supported today is not linked to a specific case of natural disaster, but aims to enter in the general budget of the eu for 2016 the amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations for the timely and efficient payment of advances, in case of disasters in the next year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i am convinced that the solidarity fund is a key instrument for responding to natural disasters that affect europe. the proposal aims to include in the general budget of the union for 2016 an amount of eur 50 million in funds for the timely and efficient payment of advances in the event of a disaster in the coming year. it is a very important position on which parliament has fought hard and firmly.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund should enable the union to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to emergency situations and to show solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters. the fund shall be capped at eur 500 million. article 4a of the regulation (ec) establishing the fund provides for the possibility of mobilising the fund to the extent of eur 50 000 000 for the payment of advances and the entry of the corresponding appropriations in the general budget of the union. that is why this report calls for an amount equal to the ceiling of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations to be mobilised under the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 from the european union solidarity fund for the payment of advances. i am in favour of this proposal, which could speed up the eu's response to major natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ the joint draft general budget of the eu for 2016 does not address the problems of structural costs or make the cuts in all the waste that would be absolutely necessary in a time of crisis such as the current one. for all these reasons i did not intend to support him with my vote.
in writing. ‒ a negative vote is, first and foremost, a political vote. in this case, the deprez and fernandes report is the result both of the special budgetary procedure and of the practice of the interinstitutional agreements in force between the ep, the council and the ec. the joint project in question shall contain: the list of budget lines unchanged in relation to the council's position; the amounts for each heading of the financial framework; the amounts by budget line; the consolidated document with amounts and lines modified during the reconciliation phase. the annex to the report is therefore a sort of extract from the 2016 budget as agreed by the three institutions involved in the procedure. therefore, just as our delegation voted against the draft budget for 2016, the vote against it should be confirmed on this occasion. the agreement reached in the conciliation committee includes pilot projects and financing for actions which we share only in a small part. the 2016 budget also fails to address the problem of certain structural costs that are not cut sufficiently and the support for costly and failed policies that our delegation does not support in any way.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the joint draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, approved by the conciliation committee in the context of the budgetary procedure. the 2016 budget is primarily geared towards identifying the financial means needed to meet the challenges of the moment, namely stimulating growth, creating jobs and addressing the migration crisis. i welcome the commitments to research and development and therefore to horizon 2020 and to young people. reducing youth unemployment must remain a priority and the resources for the youth employment initiative must be used to the full. however, i believe that more could have been done to support european farmers: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the opportunity to present its opinion on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. ‒ this is the final approval of the agreement on the 2016 eu budget, as defined by the conciliation process completed in the council. the final figure is set at 155 billion in commitments and almost 144 billion in payments. i voted against because i am not satisfied with the final agreement reached and i believe that the conciliation process has failed on two key points: the council has not been able to agree to the request from parliament to identify those lines which might not be considered as priorities and which could therefore be reduced, while the council has been unwilling to accept the request to continue to postpone the question of payments indefinitely, demonstrating a total lack of commitment and credibility. the final outcome says nothing about the dramatic issue of payments, which will recur in the coming years until it reaches a certain breaking point.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016. parliament approved the eu budget, with commitment appropriations of eur 155 billion and payment appropriations of eur 143.9 billion, as agreed with the council. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment. in addition, additional resources have been approved for smes through the cosme programme (eur 14,2 million), for horizon 2020 (eur 184 million), for infrastructure to connect europe (eur 150 million) and for the erasmus+ programme (eur 6,6 million).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by rapporteurs josé manuel fernandes and gerard deprez on the joint draft general budget of the eu for the financial year 2016, approved by the conciliation committee in the context of the budgetary procedure. i find this document to be competently prepared, clear and comprehensive, and with analyses and conclusions made ad hoc. for these reasons, and in line with the line of my political group, i have chosen to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has finally adopted the eu budget for 2016, with €155 billion in commitment appropriations and €143.9 billion in payment appropriations, following agreement with the council. for some programmes, such as horizon 2020, cosme and erasmus+, commitment appropriations have been increasing, to the benefit of smes which make up the bulk of the european industrial fabric and young people. it is important to stress that parliament, together with the council and the commission, has reiterated that reducing youth unemployment remains an important and shared political priority which must be tackled with determination, making the best use of the financial resources available, including through the youth employment initiative. in addition, many other resources will be devoted to managing the migration emergency and to infrastructure to connect europe. in view of this, i felt i had to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report sees the final approval of the agreement on the 2016 eu budget. the final figure is set at 155 billion in commitments and almost 144 billion in payments. the immigration issue (heading 3) was identified as the top priority, but the final agreement is not satisfactory as the ep did not want to listen to the council's request to identify the lines that might not be considered as priorities, while on the other hand the council continued to postpone the issue of payments, demonstrating a total lack of commitment and credibility. for the reasons stated above, my vote on the matter is in the negative.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the draft general budget of the european union for 2016 because there are serious criticisms on several points, including a lack of redistribution of resources to priority areas and a possible deterioration in commitments and payments.
in writing. ‒ the vote on this budget can only be negative. the eu has made many mistakes, but the worst thing is that it is still making mistakes. from defending the 'made in' to the single currency to managing immigration, it is a total failure.
in writing. i welcome the successful conclusion of the negotiations with the council and the commission on the 2016 budget of the european union. i would particularly like to stress the increase in research, in small and mediumsized enterprises and in international cooperation, as well as the allocation of 1.5 billion from the emergency reserve fund for refugees. the community budget can play a decisive role in stimulating growth and investment, particularly in a situation of economic crisis, and i hope that the new period inaugurated by the juncker plan will continue and be increasingly linked to the eu's budgetary policies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint text on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016. the parliament delegation is satisfied with the draft budget and the agreement reached between the parliament representatives and the council representatives, which provides for eur 155 billion in commitments and eur 143.8 billion in payments. the text provides for the allocation of some eur 1.5 billion in funding, intended both to deal with the migration emergency and to promote employment in europe. in this respect, it is of fundamental importance to respond to the challenges of employment, especially youth employment. it was also decided to allocate an extra €500 million to farmers to help them cope with the crisis in the dairy sector. finally, with regard to the migration crisis, action will be taken through the strengthening of executive agencies, such as frontex, and through increased funding for programmes linked to the management of the problem from its origins.
in writing. ‒ the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, all sections, finds my picture favourable. a great deal of forecasting work has been done and the results are appreciable as regards the 'closed' budget lines, i.e. those confirmed and not modified by the council or parliament, and the increase in staff in some decentralised agencies. the issues discussed in it are urgent and highly relevant, such as youth unemployment or pay forecasts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ my approval of the draft general budget for 2016 is based on the consideration that the european parliament, the council and the commission recognise the measures taken to gradually eliminate the backlog of residual commitments of the 2007-2013 cohesion programmes and to improve the monitoring of any backlog of unpaid invoices under all headings. the council also reaffirmed its commitment to avoid similar backsliding in the future, including through the establishment of an early warning system.
in writing. ‒ excellent work by the representatives of the european commission and the council and by colleagues from parliament's committee on budgets. in the context of financial constraints, the budget adopted today maintains the political priorities of this house: the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. in particular, in the fields of culture and education, the increase of over 6 million euro for erasmus+, certainly the programme best known to our fellow citizens, is a positive sign that will help not only the exchange of skills, but also mutual understanding between european citizens, which is more necessary today than ever, at a time when we see walls rising where in the past they had been torn down. the agreement reached in conciliation to maintain stable commitments and payments for both creative europe and citizens' europe is also a positive sign. in the face of emergencies that we are well aware of, starting with the refugee crisis, for which no less than 1.5 billion is allocated, and on which we hope that the member states will do their part, both in terms of economic and logistical resources, it should not be underestimated how culture builds citizenship and social inclusion.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteurs for their work and support the position on the adoption of the 2016 budget. i therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft general budget of the european union for 2016, which the commission presented on 24 june 2015. i believe that the budget has been designed according to the right criteria and that it effectively meets the needs of the citizens. parliament has managed to secure the maximum amount possible for funding for the management of the migration emergency, small and medium-sized enterprises, erasmus students, the eu research programme horizon 2020 and to help countries deal with the influx of syrian refugees. i would like to stress that, as regards the issue of citizenship security, it is necessary to maintain, and possibly increase, the appropriations for policies linked to the asylum and immigration funds, as well as those linked to internal security and frontex. the eu budget for 2016 will be eur 155 billion in commitments and eur 143.8 billion in payments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the joint draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, approved by the conciliation committee, which provides for commitment appropriations of eur 155 004.2 million and payment appropriations of eur 143 885.3 million. the report aims at the full use of the margins of the priority programmes for growth and jobs and provides an additional allocation to horizon 2020, eur 500 million to support farmers, especially in the dairy sector, and a joint statement on the continuation of the youth employment initiative.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the agreement between parliament and the council on the general budget of the european union for 2016, whereby our proposal for the allocation of the union's financial resources reflects the need to address the priorities for action that have recently emerged. we have succeeded in having the maximum of available appropriations devoted to the migration and refugee crisis, in line with the commission's proposal and against the cuts proposed by the council, totalling over one billion euro. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union and the countries of central and eastern europe. particular attention was paid to research and innovation, the real engines of competitiveness, to consolidate efforts in building technologically advanced digital infrastructures. it is therefore a budget that looks to the future and is based on the idea of inclusive and sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ the outcome of the conciliation, given the points that emerged in the final approval, does not allow me to express a positive vote because two key issues were not taken into account. firstly, parliament has ignored the council's request to determine the substantial budget lines which are not priority and which can possibly be reduced, making it more difficult to reduce waste in a real and effective way, and thus not allowing any significant cuts on many items which in our view could be reduced. moreover, instead of focusing on the delicate issue of payments, the council has persisted in postponing the aforementioned problem, which is constantly reappearing every year; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore decided to vote against the report for the reasons stated above.
in writing. ‒ the final approval of the agreement on the 2016 eu budget was voted on today; the final figure is 155 billion in commitments and almost 144 billion in payments, a sort of middle ground between parliament's proposal and the council's. parliament succeeded in securing an increase in heading ia which partly offset the efsi cuts to horizon 2020, while there was substantial convergence in identifying the immigration issue as a top priority. in heading v (administrative expenditure) the council has succeeded in obtaining modest reductions and has insisted that the european parliament should also commit itself to a reduction of its staff of 5%. however, i do not consider the agreement reached satisfactory and i believe that the conciliation process has failed on two key issues: the council has not been able to agree to the request from parliament to identify those lines which might not be considered as priorities and which could therefore be reduced, while the council has been unwilling to accept the request to continue postponing the issue of payments, demonstrating a total lack of commitment and credibility. the final result satisfies parliament on the surface, but says nothing in substance about the dramatic issue of payments, which will be repeated in the coming years until it reaches a certain breaking point.
in writing. ‒ the health of citizens is a key priority for the european union (eu), and the commission's draft implementing decision to authorise the use of diethyl sulphate is therefore both unreasonable and contrary to fundamental principles. phthalates are chemicals obtained by industrial distillation from petroleum, which are commonly added to plastics to make them flexible. but they 're not all the same . some are considered harmless to human health, while others are very dangerous. diethyl sulphate (dehp) is an endocrine disruptor; this substance is already classified as toxic to reproduction and is included in the list of substances of very high concern under the reach regulation, i.e. those substances for which there is scientific evidence of the likelihood of serious effects on human health or the environment. the resolution calls on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision and to submit a new draft. the health of the citizens is always the first priority for us in the five star movement, and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i do not share the positions taken in this resolution, which is a mere act of opposition to the authorisation of the uses of di-2-ethyl sulphate (dehp), which is entirely self-serving, by the greens and the gue. that's why i didn't want to support you with my vote.
in writing. ‒ objection to a draft commission implementing decision: requests that the commission withdraw it and submit a new one rejecting the applications for authorisation of the formulation of recycled soft pvc containing dehp. in september 2014, echa recommended the authorisation of dehp for use in specific applications, including recycled soft pvc. the reasons given by the greens and gue, the promoters of the objection, seem to be mostly dictated by their usual prejudice towards the chemical industry. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the objection under article 106 of the regulation concerning the authorisation of uses of di-2-ethyl sulphate (dehp). dehp is classified as a toxic substance of very high concern because of its endocrine disrupting properties in the environment. such endocrine-disrupting activity has been scientifically demonstrated and has adverse causal effects on human health. in fact, exposure to dehp during the adolescent developmental phase can cause irreversible effects on the body, with serious and severe reproductive consequences that may occur for the first time even after many years. the text which was debated in the house proposes that the commission withdraw its draft implementing decision and submit a new one, in which it undertakes to reject applications for authorisation for the use of materials containing dehp. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution calling on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision and to submit a new draft rejection of applications for authorisation for the formulation of recycled soft dehp pvc, or diethyl sulphate. phthalates are chemicals, obtained by industrial distillation from petroleum, that are commonly added to plastics to make them flexible. phthalates are found in everything from floors to disposable bottles, from synthetic textiles to clothing to toys. these are substances classified as toxic and are substitutable for a number of other less dangerous substances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection, under rule 106 of the rules of procedure, to the granting of an authorisation for dehp uses. the european commission has presented a draft decision, which has not yet been approved by the member states, authorising the recycling of old dehp-containing plastics into new pvc products. dehp is considered a dangerous and toxic substance that interferes with the endocrine system of mammals, as has been scientifically demonstrated, and is banned under the reach regulation concerning the registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals. parliament was concerned that it had not been demonstrated that the risks to workers' health were adequately controlled and stressed the seriousness of the adverse effects that dehp could cause. the ep therefore rejects the granting of an authorisation for dehp uses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because dehp has been identified as a substance of very high concern as it meets the criteria for a substance with endocrine disrupting properties for which there is scientific evidence of the likelihood of serious effects on human health. in addition, scientific studies have shown that exposure to dehp during sensitive developmental time windows can result in irreversible effects on developmental programming with serious consequences for development and reproduction. finally, considering that the commission has a responsibility to protect european citizens while promoting innovation, including on safer chemicals and substances to promote a resilient economy, i invite the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision and to submit a new draft rejecting the applications for authorisation.
in writing. ‒ i fully agree with the rapporteurs on the rejection of applications for authorisation for the formulation of recycled soft pvc containing dehp, mainly because the applicants did not demonstrate the level of risk to the health of workers handling this type of substance and did not provide a full analysis of the alternatives available on the market to replace dehp, and the socioeconomic analysis did not demonstrate any clear economic benefits. therefore, also in view of the hazardous nature of dehp as a toxic substance for health, which is included in annex xiv to the reach regulation, it seems to me appropriate to reject the applications for authorisation and to safeguard the protection of human health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ phthalates are chemicals, obtained by industrial distillation from petroleum, which are commonly added to plastics to make them flexible. there are phthalates in floors and wall coverings, even in office desks and toys. there are low molecular weight, which are the most dangerous for human health and the environment, and high molecular weight, which are considered safe by the european authorities. this substance, already classified as toxic, can be replaced by a number of other substances which are less dangerous. the draft resolution considers that the draft implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1907/2006 and calls on the commission to submit a new draft rejection of applications for authorisation for the formulation of recycled soft dehp pvc. my vote can only be in favour.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report because there is no doubt that the rules on osh in several member states need to be brought up to more advanced and stricter standards. in this sense the commission's action can be meaningful and effective.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft commission implementing decision concerning the granting of an authorisation for the uses of di-2-ethylsulphate (dehp) under regulation (ec) no 1907/2006 because i believe that the envi committee has taken the right decision in banning the use of this substance by the objection voted today. i believe that health is an absolute value which the european commission has a duty to promote and defend, even at the expense of certain economic freedoms. in the light of the available scientific evidence and the tests carried out, i agree to follow up on the various scientific reports that classify dehp compounds as toxic to reproduction and as endocrine disruptors. we have a duty to protect european workers from the possible consequences of long-term exposure to these substances: i think it is impossible to accept the logic that the socioeconomic benefits of using a certain compound for the production of pvcs may outweigh the health risks, especially in the absence of exhaustive investigations into their phytosanitary impact. i therefore welcome the large majority of parliament's rejection of the proposed implementing act and call on the commission to definitively ban the use of this substance in the circular economy.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for his work and i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection under article 106 of the regulation concerning the authorisation of uses of di-2-ethyl sulphate (dehp) because this substance has been found to be toxic and dangerous to the health of european citizens after various scientific studies. i therefore consider the european parliament's decision to reject the european commission's application for authorization for the use and recycling of dehp-containing materials to be correct.
in writing. ‒ the report, which i supported with my vote in favour, identifies the ways in which many multinational companies have evaded or avoided taxation due to host countries, causing serious damage to the economy and the community as a whole. the report also shows very clearly the responsibility and the full involvement in this scandal of jean-claude juncker, who is currently, in my view, unacceptably, president of the european commission.
in writing. ‒ the report contains an in-depth analysis of the 'modus operandi' through which a wide range of multinational companies have been allowed to engage in tax avoidance and/or evasion practices. the european council also called for the european parliament to be given the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections. it indicates some, though not sufficient, measures to prevent such practices, proposing inter alia a cover for those who provide information on such practices, including journalists. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the house, i voted in favour of the report on tax ruling and other measures of a similar nature or effect. i am a firm believer in the need to guarantee the principles of transparency and the protection of savings. i have already pointed out on several occasions that the lack of tax harmonization between the member states leads to phenomena of competition and tax dumping which seriously affect economic competition and the proper functioning of the single market. the reality is that there is a difficult coexistence of 28 different corporate taxation regimes and the difficulty of harmonising the corporate tax base. these and many other requests are answered in the proposal for a directive and in the report, for which i voted in favour, aware of the need to eliminate asymmetries between tax systems as soon as possible and to improve cooperation within the eu, since these critical issues are a burden for other taxpayers, including smes and citizens.
in writing. ‒ following the luxleaks revelations, the european parliament decided to set up a temporary committee to look into the issue of taxation and tax agreements. unfortunately, this committee is not an inquiry committee and it does not aim to highlight the clear political responsibility of juncker, as confirmed by the recent revelations in spiegel, which only reiterate what everyone knows, but which no one wants to admit, about the work of the former luxembourg prime minister. it was clear from the outset that this committee would have difficulties in carrying out its mandate. for example, all tax agreements should be public and verifiable by european citizens. in the light of the above, the m5s europe delegation decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure in question. the so-called 'luxleaks' scandal at the end of 2014 brought to light controversial tax practices in many member states. the public outcry led to the establishment of a special committee on tax and other measures, which was set up in february 2015 to shed light on tax systems in all eu member states, to examine ways to end unfair tax practices and to fight tax fraud in europe. in this report, the european parliament reiterates that multinational companies in all sectors must disclose in a clear and comprehensible manner in their balance sheets, broken down by member state and by third country in which they have an establishment, a range of aggregated information, including their pre-tax profit, income tax, number of employees, assets held and basic information on tax rulings (country by country). finally, it is explicitly emphasised that smes which are not multinational are exempted from these obligations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i appreciated the objective of fair taxation. however, i have serious doubts about what many of my colleagues have tried to say in reading this report: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the same time, it is understandable to try to attract investment by leveraging tax attractiveness, especially through the increased efficiency of public machinery in some (other) countries. i hope, therefore, that we can achieve cooperation which will make it possible to pay the right price in the right place, and not to have to waste time on diversions which do not bring any economic benefit to the territories.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament reaffirms its will to put an end to aggressive tax planning by multinational companies and to adopt a new set of tax policies and to ensure a fair tax system, based on the principle of taxation in the country where profits are generated, thus avoiding distortions of the internal market and unfair competition. i also welcome the commission's commitment to promote the automatic exchange of tax information as a future european and international standard for transparency.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has decided to set up a special committee to look into the issue of taxation and tax agreements. the text of the report was quite satisfactory, as many of the points listed as necessary are the same ones we have been advocating for some time, such as public and understandable country-by-country reporting, a full ccctb to be achieved immediately, an automatic and comprehensive exchange between member states on tax agreements. the text also contains a harsh criticism of the actions of some eu countries which have never shown any sign of cooperation, as well as the european commission itself, which has flattened out the council's positions. the multinationals, the main perpetrators and beneficiaries of these agreements, are also attacked for their behaviour. the text approved by the taxe committee at the end of october is therefore a good one, even if we were too soft on the transparency issue, because in our view all tax agreements should be public and verifiable by european citizens too. for the reasons given, which i do not think are of little importance, i shall abstain.
in writing. ‒ through the practice of advance tax rulings, the tax authorities of a member state provide a company with the manner in which corporate income tax will be calculated and, on the basis of this decision, companies choose the most tax-friendly country. this widespread practice in the european union is damaging competition in the european single market and member states' budgets, and the negative effects are felt by european taxpayers, including small and medium-sized enterprises. the resolution condemns this practice of aggressive tax planning by multinationals and calls on the commission and the member states to put an end to it. i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that the measures proposed to curb this practice, which is widespread in all the member states, can be effective. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. ‒ tax ruling is one of the first major responses by the european institutions to the luxleaks scandal. it was the european parliament which, through its econ and taxe committees, spent the most money denouncing this scandal. since there is free movement of capital in the european single market, the current system of national collection should be abandoned in order to allow for an appropriate exchange of information between the competent authorities. the report also calls on the member states to review the laws which allow for favourable tax regimes at national level, making these countries de facto tax havens. these operations at a time of financial crisis and economic difficulties for many european households are unacceptable. taxation should be paid in the states where the activities are carried out, not in those where there is a better tax treatment. parliament strongly urged that solidarity between member states be respected and that a return to a system of trust between states, industry and citizens be achieved through a body of laws harmonizing the tax systems of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on tax rulings because certain tax practices should be managed within the member states; in addition, there is a real risk that a collective eu response to tackle tax evasion would place the union itself at a disadvantage vis-à-vis other global competitors.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report which contains an analysis of the practices through which a wide range of multinational companies have been allowed to engage in tax evasion and/or avoidance. the scandal surrounding luxembourg and president juncker plays a role in this.
in writing. i congratulate mrs ferreira on the important result achieved by the report of the taxe special committee set up by the european parliament. the s&d group, from the very beginning of the work of the special committee, has played a very important role in highlighting the priorities for a fairer and more transparent european tax policy. the tax haven scandal and the frequent phenomena of tax avoidance must end: europe cannot tolerate the persistence in some member states of mechanisms which are so distorting to the single market and to our social model. the cris report makes very concrete proposals which we now hope the commission will take up, also in view of the specific commitments made by president juncker to this effect before parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on tax ruling and other measures of a similar nature or effect because i believe that the proposals made by the taxe special committee on tax ruling transparency and coordination, the common tax base, whistleblower protection and, finally, country-by-country reporting are all very timely and necessary to tackle in a concrete and precise way such annual problems as tax evasion and avoidance in the eu, and consequently multinational companies pay fairly and above all where profits are generated. we are faced with a paradox, which the taxe committee has well highlighted, on the one hand the multinationals who say they are willing to pay taxes and in return demand a level playing field, and on the other hand the need to create equal rules throughout the eu. therefore, i fully agree with the taxe conclusions that the synthesis of this paradox will have to be found in the revision of the corporate tax regime in the eu, in the substantial reform of the corporate tax framework, through the creation of a corporate tax base (ccctb), through appropriate legislative instruments and effective action to counter the tax dumping practiced by many member states.
in writing. as we know, there is no internationally agreed definition of tax rulings, except for a reference by the commission, which defines them as a communication, agreement or any other instrument or action with similar effects. i have decided to support this measure because the function of such decisions should be to provide legal certainty to the taxpayer by reducing the financial risk to honest businesses. unfortunately, their use is instead linked to the dynamics of corporate tax avoidance which has a direct impact on national budgets and on the distribution of the tax burden between categories of taxpayers. i welcome the work of the special committee responsible for this matter, but i also believe that it is vital that all member states, as well as the european institutions, continue to work to prevent harmful tax practices and to promote fairer and more effective corporate taxation in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report on tax ruling and other measures of a similar nature or effect. the 28 tax systems in the european union differ considerably in terms of both the tax base and the rates. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to all taxation, including the taxation of goods and services, and that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to all taxation of goods and services. it is therefore essential to develop a fair tax policy as an integral part of the policy of the member states in order to have a harmonized tax situation. the commission notes that the tax rulings are not intended to be used as a basis for the assessment of the taxable profit of the beneficiary of the measure.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the tax proposal as it is also aimed at curbing the current economic crisis. the luxleaks scandal on the one hand and aggressive tax planning by multinational corporations on the other was high on the political agenda of the member states, the eu, the oecd and the g20. however, no significant progress has been made to date. the report by mr ferreira and mr theurer aims to point out that in this context many countries have finally introduced measures to combat tax evasion, in particular the limitation of the deductibility of interest, anti-abuse rules, measures to exclude from public procurement companies that engage in misconduct, and the publication of tax planning mechanisms aimed at restoring greater credibility to the tax system. at the same time, a cooperative approach is certainly desirable, without which further opportunities for tax avoidance in the internal market would be opened up.
in writing. ‒ by adopting this report, we want to underline the need for a balanced and fair fiscal policy as an integral part of structural reforms in the member states. sufficient resources will need to be made available to effectively prevent and detect aggressive tax planning, tax evasion and tax avoidance, and to combat such practices, which lead to a substantial erosion of the tax base. taxation and competition policy must be seen as two sides of the same coin in the internal market. the lack of political will to achieve convergence of national tax policies often leads member states to opt for a bilateral approach, whereas a common approach would be more effective. in the absence of a cooperative approach, unilateral measures contribute to greater complexity, giving rise to new asymmetries and, consequently, to further opportunities for tax avoidance in the internal market. we therefore call for a coordinated approach and the promotion of greater reciprocity. we call on the member states to respect the principle of taxing profits where they are generated and on the commission to fulfil its role as guardian of the treaties by ensuring full respect for eu law and the principle of loyal cooperation between member states.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteurs for their excellent work and, in the interest of greater transparency in tax legislation and rules, i have decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ following the luxleaks scandal, which broke on 5 november 2014 and exposed questionable tax practices by audit firms in a particular member state, the use of secret agreements involving complex financial structures to obtain drastic tax breaks was exposed. a balanced and fair fiscal policy should therefore be developed as an integral part of structural reforms in the member states. it was therefore necessary to agree on the obligation for multinational companies to declare profits in different states and on a common tax base. i voted in favour of this report so that transparent and law-abiding behaviour can prevail.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on tax ruling and other measures similar in nature or effect, as i believe it is necessary to combat tax evasion and avoidance in the european union. the main objective of the report is to increase tax transparency and fairness, but without putting european companies at a competitive disadvantage. parliament supported the introduction of the ccctb (common consolidated corporate tax base) and the country-by-country reporting for multinational companies of a wide range of information such as profits, taxes paid and tax agreements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on tax rulings, which are tax practices put in place by large multinational companies to keep taxpayers' contributions artificially low. the eight months of work by the taxe committee have made it possible to analyse the aggressive tax planning practices, considered to distort competition, implemented by multinationals in some member states. it has therefore become necessary to propose a legal framework to restore tax justice by ensuring that multinational companies provide disaggregated country-by-country data on profits made, taxes paid and subsidies received by states, and meet tax obligations in the places where they make profits. the s&d group considers the fight against unfair tax practices to be a political priority: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. among our proposals in the report i would mention in particular the relaunch of the project for a common corporate tax base, the automatic exchange of information on tax rulings and support for the oecd working group's plan of recommendations on taxation.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the final vote on the report presented by the special committee set up by the european parliament to examine the taxation and tax agreements secretly granted between 2002 and 2010 by the luxembourg government to multinational companies (luxleaks scandal). we have long been calling for clarity for those responsible for and beneficiaries of these agreements and for the banks involved to clarify the reasons given for avoiding or evading millions of euros in taxes. the european situation is paradoxical: we have millions of citizens who are suffocated by taxes as a result of austerity policies, and on the other hand tax havens (facilitated by the absence of customs duties) which create situations of unfair competition between member states. the current commission president, mr juncker, has been the linchpin of the whole luxembourg system. although the report adopted has positive and agreeable features, unfortunately (1) it makes no reference to the political responsibilities of juncker (former prime minister of luxembourg, as well as its minister of finance for almost 20 years) and (2) the special committee was too soft on the issue of transparency; we believe that all tax agreements should be public and verifiable by european citizens.
in writing. ‒ if this is the result of eight months of investigations into the luxleaks scandal and the need for decisive action to tackle the unacceptable phenomenon of tax evasion and abuse by large multinational companies and unfair competition between states, i am convinced that the expectations and questions of european citizens have remained largely unanswered. although the recommendations of the taxe report contain important countermeasures to combat tax avoidance, such as public country-by-country reporting extended to all multinationals, the introduction of a consolidated common corporate tax base and essential protective measures for whistleblowers, we are still far from achieving full transparency, which is the first step towards ending this problem. the report not only fails to denounce the undeniable political responsibility of those who have endorsed and encouraged these practices, also thanks to a regime of total secrecy, but it continues to keep citizens, investigative journalists and civil society totally in the dark about the privileged treatment reserved for multinational groups through tax rulings concluded with governments, which will remain accessible only to tax authorities. for these reasons, while recognising that some important steps have been taken, i could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a report which clearly defines the instruments to be put in place to make tax justice more efficient. it provides for measures to improve tax coordination and cooperation in europe to combat aggressive tax planning through transparency and a code of conduct on taxation.
in writing. ‒ following last year's luxleaks revelations, parliament decided to set up a special committee to look into the issue of taxation and tax agreements. the outcome of the work is summarised in this report, which analyses the current situation and makes recommendations for the future. the final text is quite satisfactory, as many of the points listed as necessary are the same as those which i have been advocating for some time: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax base is not too high, and that the tax base is not too low. the text also contains a harsh criticism of the actions of certain countries which have never shown themselves to be cooperative, and of the commission itself which has flattened itself on the council's positions. the multinationals, the main perpetrators and beneficiaries of these agreements, are also attacked for their behaviour. the text adopted is therefore a good one, providing for adequate protection for whistleblowers and highlighting the negative role of consultancy firms and banks. what is lacking, however, is a clear reference to political responsibilities; i would also like to say that the commission is not too soft on the transparency issue, because in my view all tax agreements should be public and verifiable by the public.
in writing. ‒ the recent terrorist attacks in paris have highlighted the problem of the religious radicalisation of european citizens and of so-called foreign fighters, european citizens who have gone to syria to join the ranks of terrorist organisations. the situation must be tackled on several fronts; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. despite what the rapporteur has said, the text focuses on repression, including on the internet; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in addition, excessive measures risk violating the rights of all european citizens; "whoever is willing to give up his fundamental freedoms for the sake of a little temporary security, deserves neither freedom nor security". for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i do not share the views expressed in this report on the prevention of radicalisation and the recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations by my colleague, mr dati. the paris massacres show unequivocally that terrorism in europe is a threat that must be fought and condemned in every place and by every means. the text in question, on the other hand, merely condemns terrorists and extremists in a mild manner, rejecting the idea of closing borders and reintroducing controls. this text is far from the reality and the needs of our citizens and for these reasons i did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the report voted on today comes at a time when it is essential to rethink the role that the european union can play in preventing the radicalisation of certain sections of the population, especially the younger ones, who are more vulnerable to this phenomenon. the tragic events in paris in recent days and the flow of european 'foreign fighters' who have been travelling to syria and iraq for years show us how crucial it is to focus on prevention and how important it is to do so in the context of action as coordinated and shared as possible at european level, aimed at removing the causes of radicalisation and not just its effects. the report stresses the importance of daily and widespread work, taking action where the risk of violent extremism is highest, such as in deprived neighbourhoods, through action to promote social inclusion and reduce the sense of marginalisation, or in prisons, which too often become centres of radicalisation. in addition, it is of course necessary to promote control over the emergence of radicalisation phenomena by facilitating the exchange of information between the authorities and by strengthening surveillance of the internet, which is too often used by terrorist networks as a recruitment platform and for the dissemination of fundamentalist ideas.
in writing. ‒ it would have been wiser and more useful, in view of recent events, to postpone the vote on this text, if only to update it and, why not, to tighten it up. this report does not condemn the terrorists with the necessary firmness, nor those who support morally and financially the extremism that underpins them. criticises the possible closure of internal borders (but is it true or not that the most wanted man in europe is now moving freely between member states?); the commission has already made a number of proposals, some of them quite extravagant, which would introduce - at our expense - social inclusion programmes for so-called foreign fighters returning to their own country after training in syria or the middle east. today, the middle way that pleases this union and this parliament is no longer sustainable or desirable: the time has come to take serious and concrete decisions, for example by abolishing schengen altogether, which is not a secondary cause of the 'free movement' of terrorists. what are we waiting for?
in writing. ‒ mr president, i abstained on the vote on the own-initiative report by mrs rachida dati because, although i believe it is necessary to stop the radicalisation of those who go to fight in syria alongside terrorist organisations, it was not possible to vote in favour of the text proposed by the rapporteur, which was too vague. in fact, although it is very complicated to prevent a european passport holder from re-entering europe, at the same time it is more important than ever to find a way of blocking foreign fighters. i am convinced that, alongside the important measures provided for in the text, aimed at strengthening the exchange of information and deterrence measures to prevent the departure of european citizens, it is now essential to monitor foreign fighters when they return to their eu country of origin.
in writing. ‒ terrorist activity is an extremely serious phenomenon, whose global nature and increasing threat level place it high on the political agenda of the union and the member states. this phenomenon must be tackled with toughness and speed to be defeated. we must go where terrorism is nurtured, preventing the recruitment and training of new recruits. terrorism is like a torrent: it's not enough to contain it or contain it, you have to lock it at the source. facilitate the exchange of good practices on de-radicalisation, dismantle terrorist recruitment networks on the ground, prevent radicalisation through education and social inclusion (with a particular focus on online activities and the role of prison recruitment), strengthen the links between internal and external security in the eu, prevent the departure and anticipate the return of radicalised european citizens recruited by terrorist organisations, strengthen deterrence against terrorist radicalisation and exchange of information between the various police and intelligence forces. only by activating this global approach will we defeat terrorism. repression alone without education and social inclusion is far from sufficient.
in writing. ‒ our delegation cannot support this report signed by the former minister of justice of the sarkozy government, from the epp group. the text does not condemn terrorists or those who give moral support to the extremism that is their basis with the necessary firmness. it is a report which criticises the possible closure of frontiers and which is also not agreeable in many other respects. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the return of refugees is not delayed. the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr glinne, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the prevention of radicalisation and the recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations. the report highlights that the phenomenon of radicalisation is widespread in europe, perhaps more so than we expected. the sad events in paris have shown that one of the consequences of radicalisation is the recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations. to limit both phenomena, effective prevention policies and the strengthening of intercultural dialogue between different religious communities are needed. secondly, the exchange of information between the intelligence services of the member states must be intensified in order to dismantle terrorist networks and to combat money laundering which finances criminal and terrorist networks. in line with the report, i believe that a strategy to counter extremism, radicalisation and the recruitment of terrorists within the eu can only be truly effective if it is developed in parallel with a strategy of social integration and inclusion.
in writing. ‒ the text offers some interesting insights and the proactive attitude that emerges from it, aimed at preventing the emergence and spread of the phenomenon of foreign fighters, is certainly positive. however, the report is unbalanced in the repressive sense and, particularly with reference to the use of computer media, there is a risk that this implies a disproportionate restriction of personal freedoms. so i decided to abstain.
in writing. - i chose to support the measure. the report aims to make recommendations for a european strategy to prevent the radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations. apart from the difficulties involved in this kind of calculation, it is currently estimated that some 5 000 european citizens have left for iraq and syria to fight alongside terrorist organisations. this phenomenon is taking on considerable proportions in some member states, but in reality the whole of the european union is concerned by the challenges and problems posed by these 'foreign fighters'. the fight against the radicalisation of european citizens remains a primary responsibility of the member states. however, a concerted european approach is essential to effectively counter the threat posed by radicalised european citizens who can move freely within the european territory. the european parliament nevertheless wishes to stress its attachment to the protection of fundamental freedoms, the restriction of which can never be accepted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the terrorist attacks perpetrated since the beginning of 2015 have shown the need for the european union to act urgently in the fight against terrorism and the prevention of the radicalisation of european citizens. moreover, given the acceleration of this phenomenon, repressive measures are no longer sufficient and the european union is obliged to adopt a new strategy, more focused on prevention. the fight against the radicalisation of european citizens remains a primary responsibility of the member states. however, a concerted european approach is essential to effectively counter the threat posed by radicalised european citizens who can move freely within the european territory. finally, i am sure that the rapporteur would like to emphasize the importance of protecting fundamental freedoms: the european parliament will under no circumstances call into question in its proposals the respect for the fundamental rights and freedoms of expression of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ radicalisation and the recruitment of european citizens are two very serious dangers facing our european society today. the numbers are alarming, to say the least. the number of foreign fighters is estimated at around 5 000 european citizens who have gone to iraq and syria to join terrorist groups. the gravity and seriousness of the recent attacks in paris, as well as the high level of alarm in brussels, require us to take a more rigorous approach, not only to repression but above all to prevention. the aim is to prevent such events from happening again at any cost and, above all, to prevent people from succumbing to the temptation of living in a climate of constant fear, giving up their values or changing their habits because of a threat that is perceived by european citizens as continuous and disabling. the damage caused by this situation affects not only the well-being of people, which is of course of paramount importance, but also that of businesses and commercial activities. we cannot allow that to happen any longer, and i therefore voted in favour of this report, sharing its spirit and its proposals.
in writing. ‒ the multiple terrorist attacks, most recently in paris, have highlighted the lack of effective security strategies at european level. the european parliament in its resolution considers that the prevention of radicalisation and the recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations is of paramount importance. the resolution i voted for therefore calls on the commission and the member states to take a number of measures: the need to prevent violent extremism and terrorist radicalisation in prisons or on the internet, to strengthen the exchange of information on the radicalisation of terrorism in europe and to strengthen effective and deterrent criminal justice tools. i also think it is important to strengthen the internal and external security links in the eu and to increase checks at the external borders to detect flows in and out. finally, i believe that the member states and the commission should promote the exchange of good practice on de-radicalisation and promote education and social inclusion.
in writing. ‒ while i share the need to prevent the radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations, which can pose a threat to eu security, i believe that the recommendations in the report concern actions that are not always informed by effectiveness, appropriateness and proportionality. a more in-depth analysis of the social, economic and cultural context in which such phenomena occur should be the starting point for an effective prevention strategy based on respect for fundamental rights and freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i believe that a european strategy for the prevention of radicalisation and the recruitment of european citizens is necessary and imminent, an objective which requires an analysis of the different vectors of radicalisation; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union-wide network of specialised services for the protection of the environment. for these reasons i voted in favour of mr dati's motion for a resolution.
in writing. - this relationship is crazy. the text does not condemn terrorists or those who give moral support to the extremism that underlies them with the necessary firmness. it is a report which criticises the possible closure of frontiers and which, in many other respects, is not acceptable to us. the commission has already made a number of proposals for the introduction of social inclusion programmes for so-called foreign fighters returning to europe.
in writing. ‒ citizens' safety must be put back at the heart of the eu agenda. today's report proposes decisive measures to combat terrorism and radicalisation: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. after this vote, words must be translated quickly into concrete actions and the european institutions must take responsibility for this.
in writing. the tragic events that have struck europe in recent days make it all the more urgent for the union to take firm and decisive action, a response that does not stop at the belly of reaction but that includes a strategy capable of looking far ahead, starting from afar: the aim must be to undermine the consolidation of terrorist organisations at the grassroots level by isolating radicalised prisoners in prisons, curbing the phenomenon of recruitment of european citizens, asking for help from the major network operators to take responsibility for increasingly controlling illegal content on the internet, implementing a determined and structured shared intelligence activity, and above all by preventing all forms of money laundering and covert financing of terrorist networks. i support the report on a strategy to prevent the radicalisation of terrorism: this is the time of responsibility and europe can only face it if it is united and solid, open to dialogue, but vigilant and constantly supported by a strong system of cooperation and sharing of information and action plans.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the ep resolution on the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations. the tragic terrorist attacks in paris have left us with grief and shock, but also with a sense of the gravity of the threat posed by isis and the so-called 'foreign fighters', the european fighters recruited by the islamic state. as has been shown not only by the events in paris or the recent events in belgium, but also by the attacks in beirut, tunisia and sinai, the fight against terrorism and the prevention of radicalisation, often caused by the perverse use of religion, cannot be confined to europe alone. in view of the realisation that no state is immune to the fanaticism of isis, it is necessary to strengthen european and international cooperation through a more effective and efficient system of information exchange between national intelligence services and to implement a global strategy to prevent radicalisation and terrorist recruitment. i believe that the role of education, training and education against all forms of racism, discrimination and intolerance in the fight against terrorism and radicalisation is fundamental, in favour of social inclusion, a sense of belonging and the formation of a critical conscience in all european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because today, more than ever, we are suffering the consequences of a tragic phenomenon that forces us to mourn and fear. paris mourns its victims, brussels shuts its citizens up, rome, berlin and the rest of europe look suspiciously at people, things, noises, alarms go off every day. europe must respond with measures that increase the freedoms of its citizens, to make them free to go out into the streets and return to life, not with restrictions.
in writing. the terrorist attacks in early 2015 and the recent events in paris make us act even more strongly and decisively in the fight against terrorism and in preventing the radicalisation of european citizens. the report highlights worrying figures concerning the number of european citizens who have left for iraq and syria (5,000) to fight alongside terrorist organisations. i have decided to give a favourable opinion on the report, because i believe it is essential to make every effort to devise an effective strategy to solve the problem. it is of the utmost importance that we do everything in our power to prevent our fellow citizens from being recruited by any terrorist organisation.
in writing. ‒ the recent major terrorist attacks in france, belgium, tunisia and copenhagen highlight the worrying and continuing presence of the phenomenon, particularly in those member states that have been or are still militarily engaged in extra-eu operations in the middle east and africa. the report, which i fully support, aims to prevent terrorist extremism by combating discrimination in general and islamophobia and anti-semitism in particular. the role of education and public awareness campaigns in the effort to prevent radicalisation on the internet is also very important, as the internet itself, while being used by terrorist organisations for training purposes, can also be an effective platform for the dissemination of discourse on respect for human rights and opposition to violence, for example through the dissemination of online information programmes. equally important, mr dati's report stresses, is the spread of inclusive education programmes. the report also stresses that coordination and information exchange systems between the authorities are of fundamental importance in order to combat terrorism more effectively in the member states.
in writing. ‒ given the scale of the foreign fighters phenomenon, which involves more than five thousand european citizens, i welcome the proposal to prevent radicalisation. the military escalation in the middle east and north africa and the continuing conflicts in the region call for action that, alongside traditional methods of legal prosecution, requires concerted action at european level to prevent radicalisation by acting on the causes. despite the competence of the member states, credible and effective measures against conscription can only include strategic coordination at european level, which can be achieved through the exchange, without prejudice to full respect for international conventions on human rights, of information and good practice. i also support the recommendation to the european commission on cooperation with international institutions and the preparation of studies leading to the legal definition of the phenomenon of foreign fighters. equally important is the establishment of guidelines on the prevention and isolation of the phenomenon in prisons, whose overcrowding is a catalyst, and in the network, understood as a powerful platform capable of conveying messages of hatred and incitement to fundamentalism. finally, i would stress the importance of the school as a means of promoting tolerance, civic education and social inclusion.
in writing. ‒ the paris attacks and the tense situation in brussels have shown that the terrorist threat in europe is serious, real and dangerous. it is clear that the european union must do more to ensure that barbaric acts such as those of 13 november can never happen again. i am convinced that the only weapons at our disposal are greater coordination of european intelligence services to combat the radicalisation of european citizens and, on the other hand, action to improve the social inclusion of all those who are potentially marginalised and manipulated by terrorist associations. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the paris attacks have highlighted the urgent need for coordinated action between member states to prevent radicalisation and combat terrorism. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. other measures include confiscation of passports, freezing of financial assets, screening of potentially radicalised people entering the eu and the creation of a 'black list' of european jihadists and suspected jihadist terrorists. the text recommends separating radicalised prisoners, strengthening intercultural dialogue and creating support systems, such as emergency numbers, through which family members and friends can get quick help, in case of fear that someone is being radicalised or may be about to leave the eu to join a terrorist organisation. in order to combat terrorism, europe must put all its resources to work and, above all, seek common responses. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the european union must act urgently in the fight against terrorism in order to guarantee and protect the security of every european citizen. i agree with the european parliament's desire to adopt an inclusive approach with the aim of presenting a comprehensive analysis of the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens, without forgetting the importance of protecting fundamental freedoms. the text, which has been in the works for some months, has become particularly relevant following the attacks in paris and their aftermath.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because the text does not condemn with the necessary firmness terrorists or those who morally support fundamentalism and the violent actions that follow from it.
in writing. ‒ the recent and serious terrorist attacks have reiterated the need to join forces to counter the radicalisation of young european citizens and their recruitment by terrorist criminal organisations. the report adopted today by a large majority is the european parliament's contribution to a complex debate which is tragically dominating the international scene. since terrorism does not stop at national borders, the european union can and must play a decisive role in preventing radicalisation and in cooperation and exchange of information between member states. it is estimated that as many as 5 000 europeans have decided to join terrorist organisations. the time has come for a european response to a common and global threat to prevent the current scenario from taking on even more serious and dramatic tones. i have decided to vote in favour of the report, in the hope that the words will be followed by concrete initiatives to ensure security and stability in our societies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations, which deals with a very topical and urgent issue. following the recent terrorist attacks in paris, there is a greater need than ever for coordinated action by member states and the european union to prevent radicalisation in our communities and to combat forms of extremism that develop in particular in places of detention or on the internet, focusing on education and social inclusion. since 2012, more than 4 000 young europeans have left for syria to fight alongside daesh, young people born, raised and radicalised in europe. against the phenomenon of 'foreign fighters', we propose the creation of a blacklist of jihadists and suspected jihadists, and we stress the urgency of a common definition of 'foreign fighters' so that criminal proceedings can be initiated against them when they return to eu territory. although this resolution was used to insert proposals on security matters, such as merely strengthening external border controls, as a social democratic group we focused on the real issue under discussion, namely preventing the radicalisation of our young people and preventing them from becoming assassins of terrorist organisations such as daesh.
in writing. ‒ the recent events in paris should serve as a warning that concrete and effective measures are needed to combat the phenomenon of terrorism, but i am firmly convinced that it is our duty to work within the framework of the democratic values we defend and which are under attack. we need to improve and coordinate at international level the intelligence services we have to counter arms trafficking, to monitor and disrupt the financing of terrorist organizations. we also need to invest in education and social inclusion to prevent entire areas of our cities from becoming no man's land. intercultural dialogue with the different religious communities must be at the heart of all measures. terrorism is not the prerogative of any one religion or nationality.
in writing. ‒ the fight against terrorism needs real action, but above all it needs action taken together. the events in paris and the subsequent developments make it clear how essential it is for us to have a european counter-terrorism force, a european intelligence service and a european army. only by sharing forces and information will we succeed in what is one of the most important challenges of our time. the commission's proposal is not only ineffective but also contrary to the principles of the european union. more unity then, to be able to combat the terrorist threat and to move towards a real european union.
in writing. ‒ the strategic framework on health and safety at work deserves particular attention. the own-initiative report states that workers are entitled to the highest level of protection, regardless of the size of the enterprise, the member state or the type of contract. we have tabled amendments, which have been incorporated into the final text, asking the states and the commission to encourage and develop standard procedures for simplifying osh obligations for smes, stressing the need to take account of the welfare of workers in the context of the introduction of new technologies and work practices. we have also asked for increased financial resources for asbestos removal in all the member states. unfortunately, the economic crisis and austerity policies have reduced the economic resources of enterprises, especially smes, but this should not in any case lead to a decrease in the resources allocated to the ssi. although there is still a lot to be done, this is a step forward towards greater protection for workers, and for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ if the european labour market is to be animated by fair and profitable competition and not the source of shameful and harmful social dumping, the rules on health and safety at work must be harmonised and respected by all member states, especially those in the east. for all these reasons i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the right to health is a fundamental human right, recognised throughout europe. nevertheless, more than 4 000 people die each year in the union as a result of accidents at work, and the number of deaths caused by fatal occupational diseases exceeds 150 000 each year. although the protection of health and safety at work has made great progress over the last 20 years, there is still - especially in some countries - significant room for improvement. every human life is precious and every death on the job is a loss for the whole society: and that's why we have to be brave, to prevent the grief and the injuries that fall on all of us, both morally and economically. the benefits, including economic benefits, of advanced policies on health and safety at work have been well documented since the early 1990s: increased protection of workers' health and safety means a trend towards higher productivity and labour force participation, as well as greater sustainability of public welfare systems. the economic costs of accidents at work and occupational diseases are all the greater when safety regulations are imprecise or poorly applied.
in writing. ‒ precarious work is on the rise as new forms of work and new technologies have brought new challenges to occupational health and safety (ohs), which need to be addressed by the new eu strategy 2014-20 through legislative and non-legislative initiatives. while maintaining a general reservation on new and more intrusive community legislation with regard to the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity, it is clear that the rules on osh in several member states (mainly the east) need to be brought up to more advanced and rigorous standards. in this sense, the commission's action can be meaningful and effective. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the eu strategic framework for health and safety at work 2014-2020. there are many reasons why we want to promote a safe and healthy working environment for all workers. firstly, there are still more than 4 000 people who die each year as a result of accidents at work, while the number of deaths due to fatal occupational diseases exceeds 150 000 per year. in addition, the economic costs of occupational accidents and diseases are very high and therefore immediate action at european level is needed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of workers are respected. the text of the proposal strongly supports the protection of health and safety at work and that is why i have decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ in the strategic framework, the commission identifies a number of relevant challenges facing employers and workers in the field of occupational safety and health. the report drawn up by my colleague on this subject is very positive and incorporates a number of our requests, including the simplification of the obligations for smes in this field, the encouragement of social dialogue in this field, the need to take account of the health and psychological well-being of workers in the context of the introduction of new technologies. it also stresses that the economic crisis and austerity policies have reduced the resources of enterprises, especially smes, but that this should not, under any circumstances, lead to a reduction in the resources allocated to health and safety at work. i voted for it, i'm sure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure in question. more than 4 000 people die each year as a result of accidents at work and the number of deaths from fatal occupational diseases exceeds 150 000 per year. good health is a fundamental right in europe and, while not ignoring the considerable progress made in occupational health and safety over the years, workers are still exposed to serious health and safety risks. in this report, parliament states that action is essential to promote compliance with the legislation in force, to ensure effective management of health and safety at work by smes and to increase the human and financial resources allocated to labour inspectorates so that they can carry out their tasks. finally, parliament stressed the need to improve the collection of comparable data on occupational diseases and exposures and to address psychosocial risk factors, which are a growing problem for employers and workers across europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i would like to point out that more than 4 000 people die each year as a result of accidents at work and the number of deaths from fatal occupational diseases exceeds 150 000 a year. good health is a fundamental right in europe and, while not ignoring the considerable progress made in the field of health and safety at work, workers are still exposed to serious health and safety risks. furthermore, as noted in the eu strategic framework on osh, effective management of health and safety at work remains a challenge for micro and small enterprises. action is therefore essential to promote compliance with the legislation in force and effective management of health and safety at work by these enterprises. finally, psychosocial risk factors, which are a growing problem for employers and workers across europe and are seen as a major challenge, need to be addressed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr christensen's report because i agree that the prevention of occupational hazards and the promotion of health and safety at work are essential tools for creating and maintaining healthier and safer working environments. all workers, regardless of the size of the undertaking in which they work, the member state or the type of employment contract, are entitled to the highest level of protection at the workplace. this is also because health and safety at work have a positive impact on the productivity and competitiveness of enterprises, as well as on the sustainability of social security systems.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur stresses that, regardless of the size of the undertaking in which they work, the member state of employment or the type of employment contract, all workers are entitled to the highest level of osh protection. effective management of health and safety at work remains a challenge for micro and small enterprises. the level of implementation by member states needs to be improved in order to improve the health and safety conditions of workers and to ensure a level playing field for enterprises. precarious work is on the rise, while new forms of work and new technologies have brought new health and safety challenges to the workplace, which remain to be addressed. the commission identifies and welcomes these critical osh challenges for european employers and workers, and it is anticipating legislative and non-legislative initiatives within the strategic framework on health and safety at work 2014-2020. i am voting in favour of this strategy because it can improve and guarantee protection of safety and health at the workplace.
in writing. ‒ health and safety at work is a fundamental interest of society and an investment that has a positive impact on the productivity and competitiveness of enterprises and allows the population to work in good health. although considerable progress has been made in recent years in the field of occupational health and safety, much more can and must be done, especially in the areas of risk identified by the european commission. i therefore voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution calling on the commission and the member states to take all necessary measures to protect the health and safety of workers. in particular, i think that indicative targets should be developed for the reduction of occupational diseases and accidents at work and action taken in the areas where workers are most at risk by ensuring more stringent protection. i also believe that the exchange of good practice between member states should be improved and that instruments should be developed to facilitate compliance by smes with their obligations in the field of health and safety at work.
in writing. ‒ health and safety at work are fundamental rights in europe and, while not denying the considerable progress made over the years, workers are still exposed to serious risks. in the strategic framework 2014-2020, the european commission has identified a number of significant challenges for european employers and workers. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their opinions on the proposed directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that all workers have the right to an adequate level of protection at the workplace.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the eu strategic framework on health and safety at work 2014-2020 because i believe it is weak in managing new emerging risks and occupational diseases. the strategic framework addresses many issues that should not be overlooked but can be handled through existing laws.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report because there is no doubt that the rules on osh in several member states need to be brought up to more advanced and stricter standards. in this sense the commission's action can be meaningful and effective.
in writing. ‒ the right to health is one of the fundamental rights of eu citizens. that is why it is unacceptable that thousands and thousands of people die each year at work or from occupational diseases. moreover, all the studies confirm that greater safety at work is not only absolutely essential from an ethical point of view, but also economically beneficial, with an increase in productivity. with this report, therefore, parliament has indicated the legislative and non-legislative priorities to be followed in order to ensure that citizens can finally work in complete safety.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu strategic framework for health and safety at work 2014-2020 because i strongly share the need to put in place more effective legislative actions and instruments to protect workers against new risks of cancer, from psychological diseases such as stress. a level playing field and a higher level of protection and safety at work are needed for all workers wherever they work in the eu. this is borne out by the accurate figures, which show that more than 4 000 workers die from accidents at work and that deaths from work-related diseases are more than 150 000 each year. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens at work. the introduction of legal instruments on musculoskeletal diseases, the development and implementation of a system of monitoring, management and support for workers affected by stress-related diseases, the development of national action plans for the safe removal of asbestos and the provision of common protection and definition indicators for work-related diseases.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it sets specific objectives to be achieved. safety at work cannot be just a statement, action must be taken where the risks are greatest. starting from the differences between countries to achieve high standards that everyone respects. recognising that too often in small businesses the rules are not respected enough to protect the workers of smes. you can't get sick at work, you can't die at work. the key must be risk prevention.
in writing. all workers have the right to the highest level of health and safety protection at the workplace. nevertheless, the figures presented in the report highlight an alarming situation, as more than 4 000 people die each year as a result of accidents at work, and the number of deaths from fatal occupational diseases exceeds 150 000 per year. i agree with the call for concrete measures to be developed to deal with this emergency and i have decided to vote in favour, as one of our priorities must be to ensure a safe and healthy working environment for all european workers.
in writing. ‒ all employees have the right to the highest level of health and safety protection at the workplace and must be guaranteed regardless of the size of the undertaking for which they work and the member state in which they work. good health is a fundamental right in europe. the european union aims to prevent accidents at work and to ensure a safe and healthy working environment for all european workers. it is therefore appropriate to include further concrete measures in the regulatory framework.
in writing. ‒ the report by mr christensen aims to define a strategic framework for occupational safety in the period 2014-2012. the issue of health and safety at work is a fundamental social issue and for that reason i am voting in favour of this proposal. risk and accident prevention is a strategy to protect a fundamental interest of society, given that it could have a positive impact on the productivity and competitiveness of enterprises, increase the sustainability of social security systems and enable people to work in good health until they reach the legal retirement age.
in writing. ‒ we strongly support this resolution, which we regard as an inevitable battle of civilisations. it is unacceptable that more than 4 000 people die every year as a result of accidents at work and 150 000 people die of diseases linked to their working conditions. the european union is at the forefront of preventing these phenomena, which amount to 2 million and 160 million per year worldwide respectively. this does not mean that the commission should not follow up promptly and with great zeal the directives contained in this resolution on the revision of the directive on exposure to carcinogens, the establishment of monitoring services for workers exposed to psychological risks and the fight against social dumping.
in writing. ‒ i think it is unacceptable that in times like these, too many workers in europe are still losing their lives in the performance of their duties. it is essential to guarantee to every european worker the highest possible level of safety and protection of his health and life. i therefore appreciate that the union has decided to include in the legislation on safety at work rules and provisions which guarantee a higher level of safety at the workplace for european citizens. i thank the rapporteur for his work and i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ health is a fundamental right and despite the considerable progress made in occupational health and safety (oh&s) over the years, european workers are still exposed to serious risks to their health and safety. the report stresses that employees are entitled to the highest level of protection and welcomes the commission's communication on the eu framework for occupational health and safety 2014-2020. the report also calls on the commission to review directive 2004/37/ec on carcinogens. i voted in favour of this text because i believe that the european union must contribute to creating a working environment which puts people and their well-being at the centre.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european union strategic framework for safety and health at work 2014-2020 as i believe that protecting workers is of paramount importance. member states must take steps to enforce and/or improve prevention and safety measures at workplaces. today, it is still estimated that more than 4 000 people die each year as a result of work-related accidents, and in italy there was a dramatic increase of 11 percent in white deaths from january to august 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i share the need to adopt ever higher standards of health and safety at work.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the resolution proposing to launch an eu strategy on health and safety at work for 2014-2020, which calls on the commission to take decisive action to protect workers from risks that may arise in the workplace. every year more than 4 000 workers die as a result of accidents at work and more than 150 000 suffer from work-related diseases, such as various forms of cancer or psychological disorders such as stress and severe nervous exhaustion. while important progress has been made in recent years, including the work of the european commission which has identified risks and challenges to the safety of workers, it is now necessary to propose legislative measures to improve the level of protection in both health and safety at work.
in writing. ‒ the increasing number of white deaths calls for action by the european union to improve the physical and mental conditions of workers. the health of the worker is a fundamental right and a positive value in itself and as such must be protected at all costs and by all means necessary. i therefore voted in favour of a relationship which places the human being, his dignity and respect for life in all its dimensions, at the centre of the production process.
in writing. ‒ this report, which i supported, provides that all workers, regardless of the size of the undertaking in which they work, the member state in which they are employed or the type of employment contract, are entitled to the highest level of protection in the field of health and safety at work. effective management of health and safety at work remains a challenge for micro and small enterprises. the level of implementation by member states needs to be strengthened in order to improve the health and safety conditions of workers and to ensure a level playing field for enterprises. the european market is changing: in the context of the new challenges, the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the economic crisis and austerity policies have reduced the economic and capital resources of enterprises, but this must not, under any circumstances, lead to a reduction in the resources allocated to health and safety.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on this symbolic day we note with deep regret that even in the states which have ratified the istanbul convention, or in those states such as italy which have laws against violence against women, there are still problems both in the application of the laws and in the application of a just punishment, which is too often not severe enough for those who commit such crimes. there are laws that don't guarantee victims. we all know that, thanks to appeals and reductions in sentences, the perpetrators do not pay their full penalty and often only a sharpening of the executioner's anger towards the victim is achieved, even considering the very long time that elapses between the denunciation of stalking and a judge's decision. we must therefore act today in three areas: the first is the prevention of crime, the second is the protection of the victim and the third is the punishment. in parallel with all the preventive measures, we must demand that the penalties be increased and, above all, that they be paid in full, so that the offender does not have to go through the rebates and allowances granted to him and return to a happy and normal life, unlike the women who are victims of violence, who will bear the physical and moral scars for the rest of their lives.
in writing. today is the international day for the elimination of violence against women. today, people dress in a specific colour, they put a white pin on their jacket, they read the dramatic data on women who are victims of violence. it is right that a day has been established to remember the women who have gone through it, but it is not enough to ensure that no woman goes through it again. when we talk about solutions, we usually focus on the moment when the situation has already degenerated: we need to make sure that women find the courage and the voice to speak up against their abusers, to create shelters and support structures. when we reasoned about the causes, we talked about macho culture, about how to educate men to respect their wives, sisters, girlfriends, daughters. i myself have often written and spoken about this. i still consider it valid and important. but i've learned that to change things, we can't wait for others to change. it has to be us. let 's start with a fundamental point: the fight against violence against women is fought by women's employment. it's only through work that we can become our own master, self-reliant, secure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, madam vice-president, at this time world peace is under threat. we must do everything possible to prevent tensions between russia and turkey from escalating. an international investigation is needed to understand what happened but in the meantime the russians are refraining from any retaliatory action. if anyone thinks that this incident will sabotage the building of a broad alliance against daesh, they are very much mistaken. we will be united against terror. the european union's action is decisive: mediate and find common ground, facilitate a settlement. this is our mission and it is the real weapon against terror. and that is the job that vice-president federica mogherini is doing very well. the alliance with muslim countries must not be limited to the fight against isis. in the last few decades, mainly because of the bush administration's wrong choices, the area of instability has spread like wildfire and now affects not only the middle east but also central asia and black africa. after having contributed to the present disaster, the west - and i am referring to our american friends - must not retreat into splendid isolation. we need a diplomatic offensive first. we must make it clear to our partners in the region, but also to ourselves, that the time for ambiguity is over. you cannot sanction daesh with words and then tolerate its own citizens funding it. we have to be clear, even with ourselves. in the past, we have made mistakes in our relations with many arab countries. it's over - it has to be over - the time of double standards, so radical islamists are bad except for those we do business with. the valletta summit, i do not hide our only partial satisfaction, i say it frankly to the vice-president. we said that yesterday in our group. progress has been made, surely. however, the tacit exchange between african and european leaders that has characterized our countries in recent years has been revived, at least in appearance. in exchange for some funding, african governments have pledged and are pledging to slow down the flow of migrants. the trust fund for africa is a good thing, but it is currently underfunded. you're right. i know. we do not need to make a do ut des but to make a political and economic pact with africa. this is what we need! not a utilitarian approach for us but an approach that values cooperation, with equal dignity, between us and africa. i'll close with a note that i think is true: we don't have to be afraid of terrorism. this continent, our europe, with its history, its strength, its resources, has the capacity to annihilate a handful of fanatics and bastards. to do this, however, we must remain calm, united and avoid the mistakes of the past for which we are still paying. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card, rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a blue-card question. i am sorry, mr president, but i do not understand what the issue of turkey's accession has to do with the debate we are having. however, i am not opposed to turkey's accession, provided that turkey meets the criteria and parameters we have set for any candidate country. it is essential for us that turkey respects human rights, pluralism of information and respect for the kurdish minority. it is not a question of how many inhabitants turkey has. if we do that, we will have a very narrow view of the european union and the accession and enlargement process.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, frankly, i still do not understand all this celebration for the valletta summit. the europe that emerged at that summit is a europe that is still divided and, let me say, frankly hesitant. i think we all agree - or at least most of us - that we must deal with the migration crisis by cooperating with third countries and transit countries. but if we look at the reality of what we are putting into place, we have to see that there is only 1.8 billion euros in this trust fund. how many have been given by the member states of the european union? the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament. i'm not doing anything! a small tip that can't even wipe a crumb off the dirty conscience of their respective governments. and the doubt, unfortunately, is that many states want to interpret this aid for the umpteenth time, in the sense of turning it into a mere stimulus, a trigger for return agreements without really addressing those deep-seated causes: the fight against hunger, poverty and exploitation is a question which unfortunately remains unanswered. i think that malta has contributed €250,000! i think the summit that malta organized cost far more than the donations it made. nor is any proper distinction made between the contracting states: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we compare this aid to the 3.1 billion euros given to turkey alone for fear that it will open the floodgates of immigration again to put pressure on european policy, as it has done so far, i would say that the comparison is discouraging. i think that macky sall, the senegalese president, was right when he said that this aid is not enough, that we must instead fight fraud and tax evasion, which robs african countries of as much as 50 billion euros a year. but if i consider that we are not even able to solve the problem of tax evasion in our own country, as we saw yesterday with the taxe committee, since we are not credible in that field either, since we still do not pay the right compensation for the sale of natural resources, the disappointment is even greater, even taking into account the schengen agreement, which, meanwhile, from being the emblem of european integration has become the symbol of a mad race towards implosion, between walls, barbed wire, blows and clashes between the member states. i would say we continue to fail to learn from the past. i would say the same to president pittella when he spoke of counter-terrorism without mentioning that our states and governments still do business with the countries of the persian gulf. the situation is serious, very serious indeed: but we're not serious yet.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that i am relieved by many of the things that i wish to say from what president mattarella said this morning, particularly in relation to the odious overlap between the issue of migrants and the issue of the fight against terrorism, which is dictated by a xenophobic culture. i try to speak about the conclusions of the summit we are talking about, and i must say with almost zero enthusiasm, because i believe that this summit, as many ngos say, has substantially contributed to a further process of externalizing borders rather than supporting cooperation, and i also believe that one cannot reason about the root causes of the migration process without talking about the war, the wars we have already fought in iraq, afghanistan, libya and syria. and i would like to say to mrs mogherini, who has accepted hollande's appeal: i hope that the future of this union, its foundation, will not be in the call for war, because war breeds more terrorism. the fight against terrorism is done by building peace and building cooperation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to discuss yet another pointless emergency summit on immigration. but what did you discuss in malta? but more importantly, what are we talking about here today? today, all of you - the commission, the council and the vast majority of members - should apologize to the citizens of europe. you who for many years have said and still say that immigration is a great opportunity for europe. you who have not yet understood that we cannot accept any more immigrants. you who continue to say, despite the paris massacre, that we must welcome, integrate, love. the one held in valletta was a table with many heads of state absent and those present were either deaf or dumb. but you, mrs mogherini, are optimistic and tell us that everything went well in malta, that europe has finally understood. i ask you: why did it take so many years to realize that we needed to do the identification centers in africa? that cooperation with africa should be increased? my group and i have been saying this for years: i'm not listening to you. the commission's proposals are not acceptable to the council. now, after what happened in paris, words are not enough. we must act, act, act now and with courage. we cannot wait a year, we cannot wait a month, we cannot wait for the next summit. years and years of unreasonable reception, without proper checks, have allowed thousands of illegal immigrants into europe, of whom we now know nothing. we are vulnerable because we are unable to secure the external borders and the internal borders are no more. illegal immigrants and islamic terrorists are walking around. schengen must be suspended immediately. i have a question for you , mrs. mogherini . but didn't you decide that 160,000 refugees should be relocated immediately? the result: 150 refugees have left from italy and greece. and then a courtesy: she has renzi's cell phone number. call him and tell him that the country is saudi arabia, where he went on november 8 and 9. he's not a business partner. it's more like a terrorist-funding country; it's a country where sharia law exists. it's a country where four people were beheaded during your visit! while renzi was taking pictures with the minister of the interior, the prince and the king, four people were beheaded. shame on renzi, but i think it's a shame on you, too. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card, rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a blue-card question. i think it is right to control the borders, because the terrorists have gone unpunished from belgium to france and even to italy. those terrorists came close to my house, and so for the sake of security, for the sake of the citizens, there must be controls: less freedom, but more security.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear about this: the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. because they could be the peaks where we would draw red lines, where we would put fixed points for the future, and the peaks that we could talk about in the future as the moments when something changed. but nothing has changed since these summits. it was the moment, it was the opportunity to discuss the root causes of migration and to focus precisely on what the policies of the future can be and to avoid these large migrations, especially from africa. but they were also summits where they could discuss economic priorities, who finances the big global arms market; it was possible to draw a red line that could not be crossed to understand what is behind the great terrorist movements and the great migrations. she missed an opportunity with the story; you missed an opportunity that could have been a moment we would have remembered in the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would have expected the newly-appointed high representative to make a few clear remarks after all that has been said in recent days about the grand coalition, about the criminal act, the act of war, perpetrated by the turkish caliphate against a russian plane on a counter-terrorism mission. but this statement, this statement, has not been made, at least in this house, and i consider that a very serious and very significant fact. europe is still cowardly and still trusts the caliph erdoğan, think about it! i would like to say that the european union is not going to be able to do anything about the situation in the middle east. practically nothing. nothing concrete about the returns: but there is the cotonou agreement which should preside over our rights and see them respected. the high representative continues to speak to us about his african friends; i'm glad you have all these friends, because friends are people who talk straight. and so we need to speak clearly to african leaders in terms of returns. because this is an obligation which they are also bound by agreements concluded under the aegis of the african union. but no one says it. no one, speaking of africa in this house, has mentioned the waste that has been made by the multinationals in these decades of postcolonialism on the assets, minerals and natural resources of africa, the primary cause of immigration. the pope will surely speak of it. we must wait for the results of the pope's excellent and important visit to africa to hear the words of condemnation that perhaps could have been expected from this house, starting with the high representative. i'm not going to do it. the biggest concern was to say that it is not islamic terrorism: what a shame! fallaci was right: this europe is and remains vile!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to say that there is no link between terrorism and immigration. in some respects this is true, but we also know that this very link between terrorism and immigration has already shifted public opinion heavily, for example, in france. it won't be enough for us to just keep saying, "there is no connection between terrorism and immigration" to change that perception and then to be true to the end. we explain this by saying, for example, that many of these terrorists are european citizens who were born in our cities, raised in our neighbourhoods. yes, that's right. but if we have not been able to integrate these citizens who have arrived, who have grown up here, how will we welcome the many who are coming and whom we should welcome and integrate? what do you mean, "what"? what model? we must take a bath in reality because we have tolerated the intolerable. we have tolerated the practice and application of sharia in our neighborhoods. there is an extraordinary association in italy that helps islamic women, which for years has been telling us that many women come from their countries and have a worse life in italy than they would have had in their own country. that we tolerate polygamy, for example, in some way, while in their countries it is now forbidden. we have to make sure that the people of the community are not left behind, that they are not left behind. it's a crazy contradiction, but we tolerated it. so we have to get out of this cultural relativism. we must go out and quote again carlo nordio, who i quoted today, because we are in danger of giving up our freedoms: "the danger has never been so serious and so present", says nordio, "as it is in the legal measures announced by paris or in the even more restrictive ones currently being studied and approved. the risk, instead, comes from the insidious gradual abdication that western culture has been exhibiting for years and perhaps decades to so-called different cultures". we must cure this disease, otherwise ten or a hundred thousand valletta summits will not solve the problem.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to know what these gentlemen eat at these summits when they are together. do they drink champagne, eat caviar? how much does each summit cost, since the results are zero? let's send them to a hostel instead of these beautiful and expensive places; we feed them with dinners and lunch bags, so at least they'll be less parasitic than they normally are. i used to hear about violence against women. but why is there no mention of the fibulation practiced by muslim men on muslim women? here are four communists coming to tell us what we should do, but muslim women are silent because of what they suffer from islam. or why this west, which talks so much about not helping those who fund isis, then gives the world cup to qatar, which is one of the funders of isis? this is the rubbish of a europe that plays the ostrich and puts its head in the sand and then, in fact, does its business under the table with everyone. this is a europe that literally disgusts me.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing yet another summit on migration, and therefore yet another disappointment. another disappointment from the european governments. the political declarations of the malta summit were to address the root causes - and i stress the root causes - of migration: the commitment to respect fundamental rights, reduce poverty, promote peace, development, inclusive economic growth. well, in fact, none of that! no measures to really address the root causes of migration; no mention of unhypocritical cooperation between member states; no reference to solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility between member states; no mention of the amendment of european asylum legislation, which we all agree is now bankrupt. no mention of legal pathways to the european union, which would protect those in need of reception and thus international protection and would protect european citizens who are receiving them; the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget for the european union. the fear is that once again economic and financial aid will prove to be just a tool for externalizing borders, wasting an opportunity which could actually be used to ensure better management of migration flows.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the outcome of the malta summit was disappointing. it is good to sit down with the african countries and try to deal with the situation together, but the usual security approach prevails on the european side. nothing on the legal access villas for asylum seekers and migrants, the only real way to fight traffickers; nothing about resettlement or relocation. all efforts seem to be directed at preventing new arrivals. the trust fund itself seemed to be plagued by unacceptable conditionality: offered in exchange for repatriation or border reinforcement. it can be a useful tool, but only if you make sure that the money actually gets to the people who need it to eradicate poverty and inequality and not for border management, to outsource our borders. i would not like that to be the idea of some governments who have just put the necessary 3 million to sit on the board. what is 1.8 billion when remittances from africa are estimated at 23 billion? when every year hundreds of billions of dollars of tax evasion and avoidance by our companies come out of the developing world? before we ask and demand from our partners, we must work to be credible about the consistency of our internal and external policies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the paris massacre turned the agenda of last week's g20 summit around, forcing leaders to commit to finding solutions to the terrorist threat. however, the european positions and those within nato itself on how and with whom to intervene are still far apart. i believe that after the tragedy in paris there is no longer room for divisions and tactics and that, as president mattarella said this morning, the threat of terrorism requires a united europe more than ever, capable of acting decisively in syria, lebanon and libya and of coordinating national intelligence systems. the situation is delicate and complex and must therefore be tackled with a shared strategic vision, capable of looking at the long term and taking into account the entire regional chessboard. only if we succeed in giving new life to our european identity will we be able to defeat the threat of isis and manage the migration phenomenon, also addressing its origin. and here, as the valletta summit has shown, we need stronger cooperation between europe and africa to combat illegal immigration and therefore the criminal networks that exploit it.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the following is the text of the joint statement by the european union and the united states of america, the european union and the united states of america, on the situation in burundi (2015/2973 ((rsp)).
i now ask minister schmit to speak on behalf of the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. you change your cap...
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, the current head of government, since 2005, in refusing to comply with article 96 of the constitution, which prohibits the eligibility for a third term, has caused and is causing a number of problems in a country already in great difficulty. the risk is that the situation will deteriorate for reasons which my colleagues have already mentioned. in addition, burundi's population is 85% hutu and 15% tutsi, an imbalance that creates a number of problems between the two ethnic groups and raises concern in an area where the memory of the genocide in neighbouring rwanda is still alive. the tragedy could happen again and the threats are real and concrete. the president of the burundi senate has even spoken of the pulverization of rebellious neighbourhoods and the minister of public security has reminded the tutsi of their minority status, clearly stating that the hutu population could easily be incited to act against the tutsi. in this climate, freedoms and human rights are being increasingly restricted and human rights issues are being seriously questioned. the decision to close down ngos that receive foreign funding is the final straw. we can 't just stand by and watch this happen . europe has an important job to do. the european union has recently allocated financial resources to burundi under the european development fund 2014-2020, inter alia, to assist burundi in strengthening governance and civil society: the irony of fate! if the situation does not change, i believe that the european union must look at how to get out of this situation and use its financial resources to exert all the necessary pressure so that the political situation in burundi returns to normal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, rwanda in 1994 was a tragic event. burundi 2015: the number of deaths another genocide? this question haunts my soul and the souls of many, as i think of the savage repression and the terrible violence that is bleeding the streets of this country. so far, the report says 240 dead and 280,000 displaced. the bodies of opposition figures and even their relatives, such as the son and son-in-law of pierre claver mbonimpa, a well-known human rights activist, are lying in the streets. the government continues to raise tensions: prevents ngos from existing; one minister even appeals to the nine million hutus to solve the problem if the police are not enough to stop the mainly tutsi opposition; a senate president incites genocide by quoting rwanda slogans. if we had been more decisive earlier, we might have prevented nkurunziza's third candidacy in violation of the constitution, which has started a fire that could affect the entire region. it is time to think about energetic sanctions against the current government, of all kinds, to suspend cooperation and to isolate those who are inciting hatred and violence, and to be ready for an intervention mission to defend civilians and the most vulnerable. if we do not do this, we may once again be blaming thousands of lives that could have been saved.
(end of the catching-the-eye procedure) the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the december partsession.
the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the elections in myanmar/burma (2015/2974 ((rsp)) is now on the agenda.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, on 8 november, myanmar held historic elections contested by 91 political parties and over 6 000 candidates. the people have voted for change, expressing a strong desire to live in a new, free and democratic myanmar. they have given a clear mandate to aung san suu kyi’s national league for democracy, with a solid majority in both houses of parliament, to take myanmar’s democratic and economic reforms to the next level. we are pleased to say that the european union has been at the forefront of international support for democratic transition in myanmar, and we very much appreciate that the european parliament has played a very important role in this respect. on 16 november, the high representative called aung san suu kyi personally to congratulate her on her election victory. she highlighted the crucial role that our 150-person-strong election observation mission, led by ep vice-president alexander graf lambsdorff, had played in the holding of peaceful and competitive elections. i would like to take this opportunity to thank graf lambsdorff for his commitment and his excellent work as eu chief observer. myanmar’s democratisation process is, however, not yet completed. the disenfranchisement of the rohingya and other ethnic minorities remains a matter of concern. in this election, unlike previous elections, the rohingya could not cast their vote or stand as candidates. none of the big parties fielded muslim candidates, apparently bowing to the strong influence of radical buddhist monks. in some ethnic areas no election took place, on security grounds. the eu eom preliminary statement points out that further constitutional, legal and procedural improvements remain necessary if totally fair and fully inclusive elections are to be held in the future. aung san suu kyi, the leader of the largest party in myanmar’s new parliament, is barred by the constitution from running for president. the military will continue to occupy 25% of parliamentary seats, and, regardless of who forms the next government, three key ministers will come from the army. in that context, all political actors will need to engage in dialogue and work towards a peaceful transition in a spirit of national unity and reconciliation. despite these challenges, we believe that we have witnessed landmark elections, offering a great opportunity to strengthen democracy in myanmar. the next critical stage will be the election of the new president in mid-february 2016 and the formation of the next government by the end of march 2016. although aung san suu kyi has yet to reveal the priorities of the new government, we can expect that democracy, human rights, the rule of law and economic development will be high on the agenda. while myanmar can count on our support, there are still issues of concern on which we will continue to constructively engage with myanmar. these include the discrimination against, and the statelessness of, the rohingya minority. the eu is also worried about buddhist radicalisation, which has resulted in legislation on the protection of race and religion that is not consistent with the country’s international human rights obligations. eu-myanmar relations have come a long way since 2011. with the exception of the arms embargo, sanctions were suspended in 2012 and then lifted in 2013. everything but arms trade preferences was also reinstated that year. an eu-myanmar task force, with the active participation of the european parliament, was set up in november 2013. the eu and myanmar have stepped up cooperation in the area of human rights. two rounds of human rights dialogue, led by the eu special representative for human rights, have taken place since 2014. myanmar ranks high on our democracy support agenda, and we will look into appropriate follow-up with a view to implementation of the recommendations of the eom, which will be presented early next year. in recognition of our assistance in the peace process, the eu was invited to sign the nationwide ceasefire agreement as an international witness on 15 october 2015. with other donors we are setting up a joint peace fund to further encourage the process. last but not least, the eu and myanmar are currently negotiating an investment protection agreement, and the eu is also part of a labour rights initiative, together with other partners. the eu defined its strategy and priorities in support of myanmar’s transition process in the comprehensive framework adopted by the foreign affairs council on 22 july 2013 and confirmed in the council conclusions. the main priorities for engagement, democracy, peace, trade and development and myanmar’s re-engagement with the international community continue to be valid. our bilateral development cooperation programme under the 2014—2020 multiannual indicative programme for myanmar amounts to eur 688 million and features four focal sectors: rural development, education, rule of law and peace-building support. this is fully in line with the country’s transformative agenda. the eu is also a key provider of humanitarian assistance for vulnerable populations, in particular stateless persons and displaced populations. as myanmar steps into the future, the scope of our engagement underlines the eu’s strong commitment to further supporting the country’s democratisation. the eu stands ready to play its part in helping to bring myanmar’s transition process to a successful conclusion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i had the honour of participating in the parliament's election observation mission to burma/myanmar, led by my very good colleague mrs gomes. in burma, democracy has been won - or rather, destroyed - by aung san suu kyi's party, despite a constitution that still allocates 25% of seats to the military and three strategic ministries: the department of defense, the department of the interior, and the department of the interior's office of ethnic affairs. the atmosphere of this victory was felt by all of us in the voting: the european parliament has been the driving force behind the development of the community's relations with the countries of central and eastern europe. but be careful: although the situation has now started on a track that is difficult to reverse, we are still in the middle of a transition and we must be cautious until the official proclamation of the results. this is not only because it will be a long journey - i hope not decades - towards a government full of civilians and towards changing the constitution, but also because the change has been initiated thanks first of all to the heroism of suu kyi, many of her party and many democrats who have suffered unprecedented suffering. but it was also an impulse from the top of the regime itself, which does not want to give up all power. now he 's starting a new journey: the european union must also support burma, including in the face of the emergence of ethnic war. i visited the refugee camps on the thai border and saw thousands of people without identity, rights and future, suspended like their huts built in mud. the european parliament cannot stand idly by. burma must become a federal state that gives a home to everyone. the burmese people expect a lot from us and we must not disappoint them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this election in myanmar tells us of a fundamental turning point in the history of the country: we finally have democracy back. i would also like to thank the colleagues who have had the honour and the duty to represent the european parliament at such a historic moment. but now the myanmar government faces some very difficult challenges: on the one hand, we must finally be able to completely reduce the influence of the military, which unfortunately still holds 25% of the seats. on the other hand, there is a country to rebuild, a country that today spends only 1.8 percent of gdp on health and only 0.8 percent on education. gdp growth must lead to an increase in the well-being and development of the entire population, and this goes beyond the fight against corruption but also goes beyond decisive action against discrimination against the rohingya population, one of the most persecuted minorities in the world. aung san suu kyi is fond of saying that fear is the only prison. we hope that there is no prison for change in myanmar and that we as the european union can only support this change.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is very important that we today affirm in concrete terms that children and young people have the right to education and to education, even when they are refugees or in emergency situations. sometimes we forget. there are 10 million refugee children, many of them in refugee camps in lebanon, jordan and turkey; others have arrived in europe. many of them have already lost years of schooling to the conflict. however, we know, as you have also stressed, that access to education and psychological support is not a second stage of reception but an integral part of it. it is also a powerful tool to save them from violence, trafficking, radicalization. it's a very powerful psychological aid, but it's also a planning element for the future for them and their families. despite the commitment of unicef, of many ngos, also of private individuals, of hundreds of teachers, also among the refugees themselves, the resources allocated so far we know are not enough and we very much appreciate that the commission has collected the proposal to double the share of humanitarian aid already since 2016. and we are also reiterating another proposal which we made in the culture committee, which was accepted, and i thank mrs mcavan very much, namely to create a humanitarian corridor, opening the doors of european universities to refugee students, including through distance learning.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, education is a very important instrument in the development of countries in crisis and prolonged emergencies. in these circumstances, we know that children are the most vulnerable, often victims of abuse and exploitation, including sexual abuse, or easy prey for recruitment by criminal organizations and armed groups. prolonged crises, however, can have devastating effects on the proper psychophysical development of children, with the risk of giving rise to the phenomenon of the so-called lost generation. in such situations, education is an effective tool for prevention and protection for children, with long-term positive effects on building resilience. and this is especially true for those children who have been separated from their families as a result of conflict or natural disasters. i thank the commission for its sensitivity, but i ask that it act promptly to draw up a comprehensive aid strategy, including education for children in emergency situations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the education sector in emergencies and crises is currently among the most underfunded: it receives less than 2% of global humanitarian aid, enough to fund just one third of current needs. education must be considered a priority in these contexts, as it ensures a guarantee of protection for children, precisely at the time when they are most vulnerable. as linda mcavan used to say: school gives them a sense of normalcy. postponing educational activities until after the emergency has passed may mean that they never return to school, often condemning them to a future of poverty. and education is the best antidote to radicalization. let's make education support central to projects funded by eu trust funds and find platforms that break down the barriers between humanitarian and development aspects, that ensure continuity and coherence to these policies. it is time for the eu to become the first international donor to reach the 4% spending target in this field. i thank commissioner stylianides for his commitment and for the good news that we will be able to do so as early as next year: it is a good signal in the implementation of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) that we just approved in new york.
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank members very much for this very important discussion. i have noted your perspectives and suggestions, including the last one about informal education and the one about distance learning. we have already discussed some initiatives through unrwa for palestinian refugee children. i would like to thank parliament very much again for this very special discussion. i am truly glad that we have such exemplary cooperation in this very difficult field. i would like to say a few more words on two issues. one is informal education, which is a practical solution in exceptional circumstances in countries whose formal capacities are overstretched. lebanon is an example of this. i visited the region again a few days ago and saw the practical value of such alternative mechanisms on the ground, in particular in the bekaa valley. informal education is also the necessary first stage for the integration into formal education of a child, or even an adult, who has been out of school for a very long time. this has, for example, been the case for children who were actively involved in conflicts in africa and the middle east. secondly, on linking emergency assistance with the eu’s long—term assistance, linking relief, rehabilitation and development, the so-called lrrd: this is very important, and i strongly welcome the fact that you referred to this extensively in the resolution. education ultimately requires a long—term perspective which humanitarian aid alone cannot provide. this is why, together with my colleagues commissioner mimica and commissioner hahn, we are working to ensure the complementarity of our instruments, as i have already mentioned, through new trust funds in africa and the middle east, to help in the syrian crisis. this is something which is already ongoing with many instruments, and there are several instances where eu children of peace programmes have been continued or scaled up by development instruments. i would like to say something about the engagement of the private sector in this respect. members know that a lot of money, for example in some gulf countries, has unfortunately not been utilised until now for the very specific purpose of education in emergencies. it is very important to see new global instruments, such as the new global fund, which may manage to utilise this money through private means. it is very important to allow this way to make a difference and to find solutions on the ground. it is not a dispute between the public sector and the private sector but something more than this. i would once again like to thank members for their strong leadership, especially my dear colleagues from the committee on development – linda and other colleagues. let us continue our efforts together. i would like to say that the real practical impact of these initiatives for education in emergencies is very important in showing the real benefits on the ground in conflict areas, such as the bekaa valley and the zaatari refugee camp, and inside syria. my next initiative is to find solutions for education in emergencies in the region around aleppo. thank you so much again for your collaboration. (applause)
in writing. i am pleased to support the oral question to the commission by mrs mcavan on education for children in situations of emergency and prolonged crisis. 37 million children live in 35 countries affected by severe crises and are not in school. we have a duty and responsibility, as european parliamentarians, as representatives of the union's sensibilities and as co-creators of eu socio-cultural policies, to promote and invest in children's rights and well-being, defending the interests and a good quality of life of the youngest, as enshrined in the charter of the rights of the child and promoted by the european guidelines on the rights of the child. the right to education is the necessary and indispensable basis for growth that can provide more opportunities, make it easier to achieve social inclusion and guarantee a professional future with a wider range of opportunities. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the countries of the former soviet union, and it is therefore asking for a solution to the problem of the situation in the countries of the former soviet union.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i also thank the president of the court of auditors, because he does a very important job and helps us in the process of monitoring the union's budget. but, like my colleague bart staes, i have to say that there are far too many irregularities, especially in the management of the structural funds. we have seen from your reports over the years that the member states have always been very insensitive to the lack of transparency in the management of funds, especially the european social fund and the european regional development fund, which are supposed to add value to our territories. contracts awarded directly and failure to publish the procurement documents. it's a system that's been going on for too long and there are too many billions at stake. in a time of crisis, it is absolutely necessary to act and to impose, in a sense, measures of transparency on those who are not transparent. the european investment bank is often characterized by a lack of transparency in the award of contracts and subcontracts for infrastructure investments. the subcontracting documentation must always be clear and transparent, because the european investment bank which manages european citizens' money cannot guarantee a return to companies that are unclear, which may also have links with organised crime. we want more transparency on the subject of pre-accession funds. we give a lot of billions to turkey, which we have seen is the seventh largest recipient of funds, including from the eib: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we want transparency on pre-accession funds. nothing is known about the refugee funds. billions of euros are being given to these countries, and at this time of pressure in that particular geographical area, it is important to know what is being financed in those countries with every single euro from our taxpayers.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that these attacks confirm that for the past 40 years afghanistan has remained a people and a state held captive by the war business, which has created fundamentalism and which feeds the terrorism we are experiencing. and while it is true that the presence of nato troops is important to prevent that country from becoming the logistical base for all terrorist groups, it is also true that we must reflect on the role of nato troops in these years. it is clear that this role has been insufficient and we must be critical of it because on the one hand we have favoured those clever afghans, even thieves, who have emptied the coffers of the kabul bank and the companies that have exploited the country's resources and, on the other hand, have continued to prosper the terrorist groups. i think we should promote more decisive action as the european union.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is yet another massacre of seven civilians of hazara origin, which is part of a long history of persecution suffered by this ethnic group. discriminated and subjected to unfair economic and fiscal policies, the hazara have always lived on the edge of economic survival and their region, hazarajat, has always been kept underdeveloped, without roads, schools and hospitals. today, the hazara are officially recognized by the new constitution of afghanistan and have been granted full citizenship rights. but they still fear the growing power of the taliban and daesh, which they perceive as a direct threat to their community. now, for us, supporting the peace process in afghanistan is the prerequisite for any sustainable solution and in this light we must work actively in the run-up to the ministerial conference on afghanistan to be held in brussels in 2016.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the blatant violations of human rights and repression we are witnessing in cambodia can be summed up in the perfect combination of money laundering, corruption and cambodian politics. clearly there is also a lot of speculation by foreign investors and multinational corporations. in fact, cambodia is a country for sale, and both its resources - forests, lakes, oil - and its human rights are for sale, the rights of the 700 000 people who have been displaced to encourage investment in agriculture, land grabbing, as well as the rights of workers, children and women working in the clothing sector, who then find themselves in our market. we have probably never taken a firm and strong stand against cambodia and with this resolution the time has come to do so.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the political situation in cambodia has deteriorated. on 13 november the government issued an arrest warrant against the opposition leader, stripped him of his status as a legislator and parliamentary immunity, and, as has been mentioned, 11 opposition activists are serving sentences of between 7 and 20 years in prison. on october 26, a group of pro-government protesters brutally attacked two opposition party lawmakers in phnom penh. it is therefore right that the european parliament should raise its voice: the government needs to revoke the arrest warrant and all the charges against the opposition leader, activists, members of the national assembly and senate. we believe that political dialogue is essential for political stability, but to achieve this, the government authorities must stop persecuting human rights defenders and release immediately and unconditionally all those imprisoned on politically unmotivated and fabricated charges.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, despite the guarantees provided by the constitution, the criminal code and the act prohibiting torture, disappearances, the use of torture and other forms of ill-treatment continue to persist in bangladesh. in recent years, numerous secular writers, bloggers and editors have been killed simply for expressing their opinions. instead of providing help in dealing with this outrageous injustice, political and state institutions have started to blame the victims themselves, making things worse. there are serious and credible allegations of torture for forced confessions and of people being arrested. i would like to mention the case of the murder of the italian cesare travella. the bangladeshi authorities must undertake transparent investigations into the killing of the bloggers in strict accordance with the constitutional guarantees of the right to due process, identifying the perpetrators of these crimes. the european union calls on the authorities of bangladesh to make public commitments to ensure that members of political parties are also free to express themselves and to assemble. and the members of the opposition parties who have been imprisoned for attending secret meetings must be released immediately.
author of the book. mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, on august 6, 2014, the government of bangladesh decided on a new media policy, with the aim of restricting freedom, banning all anti-state speech, ridiculing national ideology and inconsistent with the culture of bangladesh, and restricting the dissemination of news about rebellion and violence. on october 31, editor faisal arefin dipon was killed and another editor was seriously injured. in the same days, the ansarullah bangla team, an al qaeda inspired group claimed responsibility for the killing of 5 bloggers and secular activists and the group itself published a blacklist of those considered to be critics of islam and promised, basically, that no one will be spared. the security forces are carrying out extrajudicial killings, abductions and arbitrary arrests targeting opposition leaders and supporters, and on 21 november 2015 two leaders were executed for war crimes committed during the war of independence against pakistan. there is an untenable situation which must be addressed and we are doing so with this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the conclusions of this resolution on the doha development agenda for the 10th wto ministerial conference. we need an immediate change of course, we need to put back at the heart of our policies and those of the wto the right of each state to defend its own production system. the european commission, which should be representing us, is not afraid to ignore the legitimate commercial interests of the 28 eu member states. for these reasons i could not support this text with my vote.
in writing. - i vote against it. this resolution by the inta committee expresses a view of the world trade organization and its policies which is opposed to our view. in view of the wto conference in nairobi in december, this text should provide the european parliament's view. actually, it's a script that i've seen before. the wishes and opinions expressed are the same as on previous occasions. on the contrary, to revive the economy of the most depressed area of the planet, the european union, a genuine reform of the wto would be necessary, which would put at the centre the right of each state to defend its own production system, putting aside the free trade ideas which, on the contrary, are at the basis of the doha negotiating rounds and of all the action of the supranational body in geneva. in the european case, the member states should again be the protagonists. the european commission, which represents us in the wto, fails to take account of the legitimate commercial interests of the 28 member states of the union. it is clear that this is not mentioned in this resolution. the european parliament's attention seems to be directed exclusively towards the development and growth needs of third countries. we must quickly return to the pursuit of our objectives of overcoming the economic crisis as one of the top priorities of europe and the wto.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the state of play of the doha development agenda in the run-up to the 10th wto ministerial conference. the doha round was launched in 2001 with the aim of creating new trade opportunities based on a multilateral system with fairer and more equitable rules, capable of developing fair and free trade in the service of economic development on all continents. i believe that the european union must continue to believe in the doha development agenda and work towards a political agreement to move it forward, to ensure that the wto's negotiating functions remain at the heart of further liberalisation of world trade. the resolution also stressed the importance of concluding the doha round quickly, emphasizing the value of multilateralism and trade based on free and fair trade for the benefit of all, putting development at the heart of the process, which is why i decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the resolution will serve as a basis for discussion at the 10th wto ministerial meeting in nairobi on 15 december. a first point of importance concerns the principle of special and differential treatment of the least developed countries, those with an income level of less than one dollar a day, the so-called ldc (least developed countries). the summit will also serve to discuss the functioning of the wto and the need for its fundamental reform. in the light of the foregoing, i have voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted for the measure. the doha round, to which the eu is contributing through the reform of the common agricultural policy, was launched in 2001 with the aim of creating new trade opportunities and strengthening multilateral trade rules, with the needs and interests of developing countries at the heart of the negotiations. a multilateral system based on fairer and more equitable rules can contribute to fair and free trade, to the economic development of all continents and to poverty reduction. the 10th wto ministerial conference, to be held in kenya from 15 to 18 december 2015, will be the first such conference to be held in an african country. parliament stressed the need to ensure that the principle of special and differential treatment (s&d) was an integral part of the negotiations and reflected the different levels of economic development of wto member countries, taking greater account of the role and interests of a range of economic actors, such as smes, micro-enterprises and innovative start-ups. it nevertheless considers that trade liberalization must be accompanied by appropriate institutional and social reforms. it also recommends strengthening the parliamentary dimension of the wto.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour of this report because i believe it is essential that parliament supports the wto's structural reforms, so as to foster the development of an open, fair and non-discriminatory trading system, capable of enhancing the role and interests of the variety of actors involved, such as small and medium-sized enterprises, micro-enterprises and innovative start-ups. the new provisions will provide new opportunities for global trade, strengthen multilateral trade rules and be able to stem existing imbalances in the world economic system. these objectives will give impetus to the economic development of all continents and will contribute to the reduction of poverty in the world. i therefore hope that the european union will commit itself to strong new multilateral agreements, without neglecting the importance of bilateral, regional and plurilateral agreements, which can promote the development of an open trading system. to ensure that these objectives are achieved, it will be necessary to open up the process of liberalization and to update the rules and disciplines in trade, in order to establish a common set of rules which will create the conditions for possible future multilateralisation.
in writing. ‒ this is a 'topical resolution' (rsp) in preparation for the 10th wto ministerial meeting, which will take place on 15 december. the resolution is intended to give a common union position on the main issues on the agenda of the ministerial meeting: the debate will focus on the functioning of the wto and the need for structural reform, which is necessary to ensure an open and non-discriminatory trading system, and which takes full account of the role of smes. unfortunately, there are many plurilateral and bilateral agreements that the member states are negotiating which call into question the very usefulness of multilateralism, as proposed by the wto, which is being reduced to a mere instrument for defining common rules rather than being at the forefront of reducing tariffs, opening up new outlets and guaranteeing equal access to markets. the nairobi ministerial meeting is therefore a crucial moment for redefining the whole of relations. i can only express a positive opinion of the report.
in writing. - i am voting against this report. since the european commission, which represents us in the wto, our country has suffered enormous damage because the eu, by its very nature, fails to take account of the legitimate commercial interests of the 28 member states of the union.
in writing. ‒ the wto needs to be revitalized. we need more open trade, more economic development. i hope that the nairobi conference can be a turning point in the direction of economic growth and employment, bringing practical help to the poor people in their own countries.
in writing. ‒ i agreed with the text of the motion for a resolution tabled following a statement by the commission (under rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure) on the state of play of the doha development agenda ahead of the 10th ministerial conference of the world trade organisation. the implementation of the doha agenda is fully consistent with the european union's objective of ensuring the creation of new trade opportunities, promoting multilateral trade and supporting the economies of developing countries. the tenth wto ministerial conference, to be held in kenya in december, and thus for the first time in an african country, will focus on the key issue of the development of low-income countries and so-called 'emerging' economies and the creation of an open, fair and non-discriminatory trading system. i believe that the great imbalance in the levels of economic development must be taken into account and that effective measures must be taken to ensure that the developing countries are not left behind. in this sense, it is essential to adopt indicators of economic vulnerability rather than the sole criterion of gdp. finally, i hope that the european union will make a concrete commitment to bring the doha round to a successful conclusion.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of these motions for resolutions with mr lange and mr zalba as rapporteurs. i think the timing of these measures is perfect, given that they are being put before us a few weeks before the wto ministerial conference (mc10) which will be held in kenya from 15 to 18 december. it is useful in this respect that such measures provide a more precise definition at european level of a low-income country and an emerging economy. this makes it possible to redistribute effectively the tasks and interests of the various parties involved, who can benefit from the agreements concluded under the auspices of the wto.
in writing. ‒ endorsed the european parliament resolution on the state of play of the doha development agenda ahead of the 10th ministerial conference of the world trade organisation. the 10th ministerial conference of the world trade organisation will be held in nairobi from 15 to 18 december. the doha round was launched with the aim of creating new trade opportunities, strengthening multilateral trade rules and addressing existing imbalances, while putting the needs and interests of developing countries first. these objectives are based on the idea that a multilateral system based on fairer rules can contribute to fairer and more open trade for the economic development of all continents and to reduce poverty.
in writing. ‒ the wto member states' multilateral negotiating cycle was launched in 2011 with a very specific objective of creating new trade opportunities while supporting the economic growth of the least developed countries, putting their interests and needs at the centre of the negotiations. the subject is therefore particularly important and requires a shared support where, as in the motion for a resolution under comment, the aim is to urge all wto member countries to proceed with the speedy ratification and implementation of the trade facilitation agreement so that it can enter into force in time for the 10th ministerial conference.
in writing. ‒ we strongly support this resolution, which should serve to impose a change of pace on the negotiations launched in the world trade organisation in 2001 in doha. this round of negotiations is of particular importance because it can strengthen the multilateral system of trade relations and, at the same time, take greater account of the needs and requirements of the least developed countries. the measure has the potential to make the next wto ministerial meeting, to be held in december in nairobi, an important moment in making international trade fairer and freer. the efforts which the european union supports in international and regional forums, as well as in its agenda for bilateral negotiations, must always be directed towards the elimination of unjustified non-tariff barriers to trade, in order to strengthen and make more efficient and authoritative the multilateral system of the world trade organisation. we believe that only a wto reinvigorated by the forthcoming negotiations can achieve the objectives of international trade that provides fair, inclusive and sustainable rules for globalisation, in the interests of european citizens, but also of the poorest countries in the global south.
in writing. ‒ the conduct of the doha negotiations has proved to be very complex and, to date, no conclusion has been reached. i support the importance of speeding up the negotiating process in view of the tenth ministerial conference of the world trade organisation to be held in kenya from 15 to 18 december. i believe that there should be a structural reform of the wto with the aim of including the least developed and developing countries more closely in a genuinely multilateral, fair and non-discriminatory trading system based on shared and applied rules and taking more account of smes, micro-enterprises and innovative start-ups. i would therefore have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the doha round was launched in 2001 with the aim of creating new international trade opportunities. this objective is based on the fact that a multilateral system based on fairer and more equitable rules can contribute to fair and free trade, to economic development on all continents and to poverty reduction. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe in the importance of reaching a political agreement that will allow the doha agenda to move forward. a trade agenda based on free and fair trade for the benefit of all, putting economic development at the heart of the process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the state of play of the doha development agenda in the run-up to the 10th ministerial conference of the world trade organisation, as i believe that structural reform is needed to bring about economic development in the wto member countries. this reform must be based on free, fair and non-discriminatory trade, based on shared and applied rules, which better takes into account the role and interests of a range of economic operators, such as smes, micro-enterprises and innovative start-ups.
in writing. ‒ in the motion for a resolution adopted today, the european parliament sets out its position on reaching a final agreement on the doha development agenda, in view of the 10th ministerial conference of the wto (world trade organisation) in nairobi. the report calls on all wto members to ratify the trade facilitation agreement (tfa) swiftly so that it can enter into force in time for the 10th ministerial conference. this agreement would bring significant benefits to all wto members and in particular to the least developed countries (ldcs), as well as to important economic operators. increasing transparency, reducing administrative burdens and customs procedures will allow smes and others to gain access to new export opportunities. i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that reaching a multilateral agreement that ensures greater liberalisation of trade worldwide is beneficial for all wto members, including the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution by which parliament takes a position in view of the next ministerial meeting of the world trade organisation in kenya in december, to reaffirm the commitment to a multilateral trading system that fully involves and benefits the least developed countries, in line with the objectives of the doha agenda launched in 2001. as this is the first time that such a conference is being held in africa, we have before us an important opportunity to relaunch a multilateral model of international trade, which cannot be replaced by various bilateral or regional agreements. this is because we want the least developed countries to also have access to the benefits of a multilateral system, participating in governance and in shaping a trade agenda based on fair trade for the benefit of all parties and focused on development. this is why the wto system needs to be rethought so that it works well for all member countries, also in the light of the new challenges that global trade is also facing, such as climate change and sustainability.
in writing. ‒ the european union's trade policy must necessarily be geared to the growth and development of our continent, but it is desirable that all trade be accompanied by administrative simplification, education and training and social policies, so as to derive the maximum benefit from trade reforms and offset any negative effects. the special needs and interests of low-income developing countries and least developed countries will also need to be taken into account in the ongoing wto negotiations to ensure that the negotiations reflect different levels of economic development, in order to protect the interests of the citizens of the various states.
in writing. ‒ i do not share the positions contained in this resolution which applaud the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement between the eu, peru and colombia. i believe that this agreement could pose a serious problem for sectors which are important to us, such as agriculture and textiles, and for these reasons i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this resolution welcomes ecuador's accession to the trade agreement already in force between the eu, peru and colombia, which our delegation opposed. countries such as these can be a problem for certain production sectors such as agriculture and textiles. similarly, no offensive commercial interests are perceived for the companies in the italian system. in general, our delegation is very sceptical of a european commission which, under the treaties, is now the exclusive negotiator of any trade agreement. in this case, we are faced with countries which use these agreements as if they were instruments of development aid. the northern league is against the use of international trade to promote the development of others. others, in our view, are the appropriate instruments. the costs of development promoted by free trade agreements will always be borne by small and mediumsized european enterprises - perhaps those of the southern european states - open to unregulated competition from products from the rest of the world. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement concluded between the eu and its member states and colombia and peru. i think it is very important to build ever stronger alliances with countries and regions which are growing rapidly, are open-minded and have good prospects for economic expansion. ecuador is one of these realities, having invested over 40 billion us dollars in the social sector in recent years, to improve access to education, health care and social security for even the most vulnerable groups of the population. the proposal presented today will bring important benefits for ecuador's exports to the eu, ensuring increased and diversified trade and investment for both sides. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour of its acceptance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement concluded between the eu and its member states and colombia and peru for various reasons, including the request that safeguard clauses be inserted, agreed simultaneously by both parties, in order to protect national production against excessive imports which can cause serious damage. the text calls on the eeas and the european commission to support the ecuadorian government in its efforts to develop and support effective environmental management both in general and in sensitive areas such as the amazon and the galapagos islands.
in writing. - i voted for the measure. parliament welcomed the conclusion of the negotiations with ecuador on the protocol for its accession to the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement, recognising the important benefits this will bring for ecuador's exports to the eu. over the past eight years, ecuador has experienced robust and inclusive economic growth; this was achieved by investing us$40.8 billion in the social sector in access to education, healthcare and social security with specific programmes for the most vulnerable groups such as children, the elderly and the disabled. accession is a further decisive step forward in the alliance with important, like-minded and fast-growing countries and regions in an increasingly asia-pacific oriented region.
in writing. ‒ i express my full support for the inclusion of ecuador in the trade agreement already in force between europe, colombia and peru. this is the extension of a free trade agreement which aims to facilitate trade and investment in the industrial, agricultural and fisheries sectors. the accession of ecuador represents an opportunity to extend and strengthen trade and economic relations between the european union and latin america.
in writing. ‒ we are voting against this agreement not because the country in question is a problem for certain sectors of production in our country but because, in general, we are opposed to the line of a european commission which, under the treaties, is now exclusively negotiating any trade agreement.
in writing. i am in favour of the motion tabled by mr scholz. i believe that ecuador's accession to the trade agreement with colombia and peru is another decisive step forward in the alliance with important countries. the ecuadorian government's efforts to invest $40.8 billion to improve its welfare and social policies and to ratify ilo convention 169 on ethnic minorities are also noteworthy. all this is to show that these countries are willing to combine economic growth with social progress that will bring them closer to european standards.
in writing. ‒ favourable to the conclusion of negotiations with ecuador on the protocol for its accession to the trade agreement between the eu, colombia and peru. the agreement will bring new import opportunities and market benefits to ecuador's main export industries to the eu, given that the eu has in turn opened its market to imports from peru and colombia, committing to immediately liberalize industrial and fishery products.
in writing. ‒ on 17 july 2014, negotiations between the eu and ecuador for its accession to the eu-colombia/peru trade agreement were concluded. in view of the many economic benefits that the conclusion of the negotiations will bring to ecuador's exports to the eu, i believe i should support, by voting in favour, the motion for a resolution tabled by mr caspary, which is aimed at encouraging the rapid and complete entry into force and implementation of this agreement. it will ensure the highest level of protection for citizens and the environment and the increase and diversification of trade and investment by both sides.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this motion for a resolution which has become necessary following the conclusion of negotiations with ecuador on the protocol for its accession to the trade agreement between the eu, colombia and peru. the accession of ecuador to this plurilateral agreement is a further decisive step forward in the alliance with important countries and regions of a similar mind to ours and in rapid growth in a region which is increasingly oriented towards asia and the pacific. in addition, such an agreement will result in increased and diversified trade and investment by both parties, act as an important factor for economic and social development and contribute to alleviating poverty and reducing inequalities. in this respect, however, it is of fundamental importance to define a transparent and binding roadmap for human, environmental and labour rights. the commission notes that the economic situation of the union is deteriorating and that the economic situation of the union is deteriorating.
in writing. ‒ ecuador's accession to the trade agreement concluded by the european union with colombia and peru will bring benefits to ecuador's exports to the eu, especially as the eu's generalised system of preferences will no longer apply; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. while i share the importance of the conclusion of this agreement, i also support the need to monitor environmental sustainability in the design and implementation of cooperation activities financed by the commission and to promote the exchange of good practice between the contracting parties in the field of corporate social responsibility. i believe that the commission must also ensure that the maximum import volumes set out in the banana stabilization mechanism are actually respected, in order to protect producers and the european market. i would have voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that ecuador's accession to the trade agreement between the eu, colombia and peru is a further step forward in the alliance with important countries and regions with rapid economic growth. moreover, the text of the protocol of accession to the agreement meets the ambitions of both the eu and ecuador. such an agreement will result in increased and diversified trade and investment by both parties, act as an important factor for economic and social development and contribute to alleviating poverty and reducing inequalities. i hope that this agreement will be implemented swiftly and fully.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement between the european union, colombia and peru, as it promotes increased trade and investment between the parties concerned. the agreement also represents an opportunity for ecuador to improve the living conditions of its citizens.
in writing. ‒ on 17 july 2014, negotiations with ecuador for its accession to the trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru, signed in june 2012, were concluded. i voted in favour of parliament's motion for a resolution because this accession represents an important step forward in the alliance with the rapidly developing countries in the latin american region. ecuador has in recent years been committed to reducing poverty, from 37.5% to 22.5%, and has focused on improving social and environmental conditions. by joining the trade agreement, the country will be able to enjoy the benefits of trade with the eu, thus fostering further economic and social development. the union will also strengthen its economic relations with the latin american market, which is considered to be one of the fastest growing and most interesting markets in the world.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the agreement to include ecuador in the trade agreement between the european union, colombia and peru, which will allow an increase in exports to europe to the benefit of the ecuadorian economy. as a socialist group, we believe that trade is a means of achieving progress both in terms of the economy and the well-being of citizens, by opening up new markets but also by ensuring that investment serves to reduce inequalities and improve living conditions. this is what we hope for ecuador, which we want to include in the close links already existing with other south american countries, asking its government to establish a clear and transparent path on human, environmental and social rights as a condition for concluding the agreement, as was done with peru and colombia at the time of concluding the trade agreement in question.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this resolution, but with the bitter awareness that the text adopted is a rather weak text, a facade text, because it lacks a number of important actions and indications which the european union must put into practice as soon as possible in order to really protect the welfare of animals and to recognize them as sentient beings, as enshrined in article 13 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. for example, there is no clear reference to a commitment to fund alternative methods to animal experimentation and their promotion and dissemination also in the academic field, in university curricula, for a rapid abandonment of this practice, as requested by 1,200,000 citizens with the european initiative "stop vivisection". a number of other calls, which did not make it into the final resolution, are also missing from the commission and the member states, for example to harmonise legislation on the use of wild animals in circuses, to ban the use of captive cetaceans and the illegal trade in wild animals.
in writing. ‒ there is a need for greater protection for animals in the european union. the resolution, despite the rejection of our amendments, provides a good starting point for extending animal protection in europe. animals are not commodities to be "produced", discarded, bought and sold; they have the right to an existence and a death as free from suffering as possible... this is the least that a country that claims to be civilised can do. we still have a long way to go, but something seems to be starting to move. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that it is necessary to defend those who have no voice to do so themselves.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on a new strategy for animal welfare is unbalanced and has several criticisms, which is why i did not support it.
in writing. ‒ animal welfare is a matter of common concern and requires a clear strategy from the european union, which combines animal welfare and protection with the needs of the internal market and our economic position on the international scene. it is therefore necessary for the commission to carefully assess the effectiveness and the remaining gaps of the current strategy and, in the light of those assessments, to develop a new and ambitious strategy for the period 2016-2020. we must also remember that, while it is true that animal welfare receives its highest levels of protection in europe, and we should be proud of that, this approach must also be promoted at world level and requires a certain reciprocity also on the part of third countries, without which we risk penalizing our own production system and failing to achieve results on a global scale.
in writing. ‒ the resolution would like to define some general criteria for the commission in view of the forthcoming presentation of animal welfare legislation (2016-2020); the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to the development of the internal market. all this with a high bureaucratic (and investment) burden on operators. however, some of these indications also contribute to the high quality of european agricultural products and, rightly, paragraph 9 of the resolution, highlights that these should not be the subject of trade negotiations with non-eu countries and that, on the contrary, similar standards are required for imported products/animals. unfortunately, the rest of the text is full of the usual rituals, attempts to ban hunting (21rev, 22rev but also in a broad sense, 12rev, which i have mentioned) and some breeding techniques/types that, even when they are foreign to our production context, we protect as intrinsic expressions of traditional and popular european cultures.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020. achieving a high level of animal welfare is an essential element for protecting animal health and ensuring animal productivity. at the same time, animal welfare is a matter of great concern to european citizens, who want to be able to make more informed choices as consumers. in the resolution we adopted, we called on the commission to implement without delay the outstanding parts of the eu strategy for the protection and welfare of animals 2012-2015 and to develop a new and ambitious strategy for the period 2016-2020, capable of ensuring continuity with the previous strategy. we also stressed the importance of improving the application and enforcement of existing legislation and asked the commission to include the reciprocity of animal welfare rules as a non-trade concern in its trade policy and in the negotiations on international trade agreements. i have voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ full compliance by european and national legislation with article 18 tfeu, i.e. that animals are considered sentient beings, is essential. the european animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020 shows a timid approach but i voted in favour because we need to protect our animal friends.
in writing. - i chose to vote in favour of the measure. eu animal welfare legislation contributes to a level playing field within the union and thus to the proper functioning of the internal market. european citizens have a strong interest in animal welfare and want to be able to make more informed choices as consumers. community and national animal welfare rules, due to their complexity and divergent interpretations, create legal uncertainty and may result in a serious competitive disadvantage for producers in some member states. parliament urged the commission to evaluate the existing strategy and to develop a new and ambitious animal protection and welfare strategy for the period 2016-2020, which would build on the work of the previous strategy and ensure continuity of the regulatory framework in order to achieve high animal welfare standards in all member states. it called on the commission to closely monitor the implementation of eu animal welfare legislation in the member states. parliament also stressed that producers were burdened with administrative obligations and that the new european strategy should not add to existing burdens.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour because i believe it is essential to improve the european strategy for animal welfare. i believe that this improvement is necessary because the complexity and divergent interpretations of the union and national animal welfare rules often create legal uncertainty and a competitive disadvantage for producers in some member states. in addition, i think that this strategy should also be improved to meet the interests of european citizens who want to be able to make more informed choices as consumers. i also hope that the commission will monitor closely the implementation of eu animal welfare legislation in the member states.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament believes that animal welfare should be further improved both through better implementation and enforcement of existing eu legislation and through the development of a new and ambitious animal protection and welfare strategy. in the resolution i voted for, the european parliament asks the commission to develop an ambitious strategy for 2016-2020 that focuses on trade policy, animal welfare in third countries, adequate funding of the common agricultural policy and the exchange of good practice based on scientific data.
in writing. ‒ respect for and protection of animals are essential elements of today's society and must be guaranteed as an expression of great civilization. in this respect, the eu strategy for 2012-2015 has certainly been a step forward, but the european commission is now called upon to develop a new and more ambitious strategy, by presenting a legislative framework proposal that does not affect the interests of large industry and that guarantees higher levels of protection and welfare of animals, while also allowing for greater harmonisation at community level. however, because of my sensitivity to this subject and as a member of the animal welfare intergroup, i voted in favour of more ambitious amendments, with more protection for animals, which i regret did not receive a majority.
in writing. ‒ ensuring animal welfare has clear ethical implications and also contributes to protecting public health. the intensive exploitation of animal husbandry and the divergent application of existing rules within individual member states have negative effects on consumer health, but also on the proper functioning of the internal market. for these reasons too, a new strategy for the protection and welfare of animals is needed, based on sustainable agriculture, which respects animals, the environment and, ultimately, people.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support this report because instead of dealing only with animal welfare it has invaded other fields as well, such as the ban on hunting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on a new animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020 because respect for and safety of animals is fundamental in today's society, which has among its requirements the care of all living beings as an expression of great civilization. there is a need, following clear scientific evidence that has shown numerous problems with animal welfare, to create new tools to meet the new responsibilities that each state has with regard to increased legal and ethical protection of animal species other than humans. the protection of animals on farms and the safety of the food chain must be guaranteed, and therefore administrative obligations must be laid down to ensure animal health and consequently public health.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that there is still a lot to be done in the area of animal welfare. the commission must draw up a new, ambitious post-2015 strategy containing specific targets as soon as possible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have made a great deal of progress with the animal health regulation, and we also need legislation on animal welfare.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution on the animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020. animal welfare plays an important role in the policies of the european union. the safety of the food chain is indirectly influenced by the welfare of animals, in particular those raised for food production, due to the close link between animal welfare, animal health and foodborne infections. stressors and poor welfare conditions may result in an increased susceptibility to disease in animals and, indirectly, in the final consumer. i therefore urge the commission to review the existing strategy and to develop a new and more ambitious one with a view to improving the quality standards of breeding and the level of food security.
in writing. ‒ animal welfare is closely linked to animal and public health and is also crucial to ensuring sustainability. it is true that national animal welfare rules, because of their complexity and divergent interpretations, create legal uncertainty and can put producers in some member states at a serious competitive disadvantage. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are complied with. to avoid these problems, i believe it is necessary to propose a harmonised legislative framework on the one hand and to take legal action against member states which do not comply with the legislation on this matter on the other. that is the aim of the motion for a resolution, and i am therefore in full support of it.
in writing. ‒ by adopting this resolution, we wish to draw the commission's attention to the failure to implement the eu strategy for the protection and welfare of animals 2012-2015 and urge it to develop a new and more ambitious strategy for the period 2016-2020. the work already done must be continued and the existing regulatory framework must be maintained. improving the application and enforcement of existing legislation should be the main objective of all animal health and welfare rules in all member states. but this is a concern that goes beyond the community's borders: the reciprocity of rules, as a non-trade concern, will have to be incorporated into our trade policy and into the negotiations on international trade agreements. we are interested in promoting animal welfare in third countries by requiring equivalent welfare standards for imported animals and products, combined with increasingly stringent controls. we also support the need to ensure adequate funding for the cap so that the budgetary level matches the objectives. we should remember that this is a general matter, a horizontal matter, and as such it is as important as the provisions on agriculture, the environment or consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ within the european union, our animals enjoy the highest welfare standards in the world. we must be proud of this and continue to work to ensure that the legal framework for the protection of animals is further implemented, that the european union can serve as a model for the rest of the world to follow and that the civilization of a people is also measured by the level of welfare and respect for animals. i would therefore have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the new animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020 as i believe that there is a need for simplification and harmonisation of legislation between the member states of the european union on animal health and welfare. the current disparity between community and national rules not only creates legal uncertainty but also competitive disadvantages between producers and uncertainties in information for consumers.
in writing. ‒ respect for and protection of the welfare of animals as sentient beings is enshrined in article 13 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. yet, it is a principle that is too often forgotten. i voted in favour of this resolution because, despite the rejection of our amendments, it is still a step forward because it asks the commission to come forward with a legislative proposal on animal welfare. we shall therefore have the opportunity to put our proposals forward again. the main points we will fight for again are: full compliance with article 18 tfeu in european and national legislation; the gradual but definitive abandonment of animal testing in accordance with the 'stop vivisection' campaign; the prohibition of ritual slaughter practices; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. we voted in favour of those amendments which covered some of the points which are dear to us, such as the illegal trade in animals and poaching.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the resolution on a new animal welfare strategy 2016-2020. i find the passage where concern is expressed about the excessive complexity and the large number of legislative acts governing the subject particularly appropriate. i would like to stress the importance of ensuring animal welfare and animal health standards, but i would remind you that this requires simple and clear legislation. it is now important that the european commission presents a new and ambitious strategy for 2016-2020, a framework which i hope will, in continuity with the previous regulatory framework, ensure that europe has the highest standards of animal protection in the world.
in writing. i voted in favour of the animal welfare resolution because i believe that animals should be respected and protected as sentient beings as laid down in article 13 tfeu. i am convinced that we must abandon the hypocrisy which allows thousands of animals to be horribly sacrificed for the testing of medicines and other products 'for scientific reasons', when we now know that this is a needlessly cruel practice which does not even give certain results. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal welfare system is not compromised. nor can we accept any more that religious reasons are invoked to allow animals to be slaughtered in barbaric procedures that cause them atrocious suffering. i think it is time to address this matter in a manner which shows the maturity of our civilization, and although i think this vote is a positive one, i am sorry that our amendments, which would have helped to improve and make the text even more effective, have been rejected.
in writing. ‒ the union has always been committed to the protection of children and minors through the signature of international and european treaties, which enshrine respect for the fundamental rights of these categories, as well as the provision of instruments for intervention in the event of violation of these rights. education, in particular, allows the development of critical thinking, the creation of the citizens of tomorrow, as well as a conscious knowledge of their rights. ensuring continuity of education and training for refugee, displaced or crisis-affected children can be a form of support for them, not only in terms of schooling but also in terms of psychological and human support. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the resolution under vote is acceptable and free of criticism. i think it is important to recall the value of education and to stress the need for greater investment in this area, targeting all children, but paying particular attention to the education of those living in crisis or conflict zones. that is why i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ investing in education means investing in the future and today's resolution is a small but important step towards recognising this fundamental principle. i also welcome the announcement by the european commissioner for humanitarian aid, mr stylianides, that the target of 4% of the eu humanitarian aid budget for the education of children in emergency situations by 2019 will probably be reached as early as next year. the decision to increase this part of development aid plays an important role in reaffirming that the right to education, which is for all children and young people, is a top priority even in the most critical contexts. in these areas, education is one of the most effective means of preventing and protecting against violence, forced recruitment and radicalisation. it is a fundamental psychological aid to ensure that children have a sense of normalcy even in the most difficult situations and is the only means of ensuring their prospects for the future. education is one of the essential preconditions for the enjoyment of all other social, economic, political and cultural rights. we must act quickly if we are not to face another "lost generation".
in writing. ‒ a simple, peaceful and shared solution. the committee also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of children and young people. i'm voting for it.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the education of children in emergencies and protracted crises because 62 million children worldwide live in areas affected by armed conflict, they are children of primary and lower secondary school age who do not attend school because they live in places affected by protracted crises. for all the children in crisis areas around the world, studying is not only a diversion for the present, but also an opportunity for the future. the international community and the european union therefore have a duty to take concrete measures to ensure a future for these children. education in emergencies is the sector that receives the most inadequate funding, with just two percent of humanitarian aid. unfortunately, too little is still being done.
in writing. ‒ the figures are accurate: according to united nations estimates, 1 billion children live in conflict zones, of which 250 million are under the age of five and are denied the basic right to education; the union's macro-financial assistance shall be implemented in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and sound prudential management. i can only vote in favour of a resolution which calls on the international community to consider education as a central element of its humanitarian response, since it is a catalyst which can increase the effectiveness of the entire humanitarian response and also contribute to the medium- and long-term development of the populations concerned.
in writing. - i thought i'd vote for the measure. according to united nations estimates, one billion children live in conflict zones. education is a fundamental human right of every child and is a key element for the full enjoyment of all other social, economic, cultural and political rights, as well as being an essential tool for the empowerment of women. over the period 2014-2020, the european union will invest eur 4,7 billion in education in developing countries, an increase from eur 4,4 billion invested in the period 2007-2013. parliament stressed the importance of high-quality universal public education as a catalyst for development, which could improve the prospects for the success of other union interventions. it called on the european union and its member states to make these objectives the main priority of their internal policies and in their relations with third countries. calls on the european union and the member states to include the education of children as a priority when allocating resources from the union's trust funds. parliament called on the member states to support the commission's objective of increasing the share of humanitarian funds allocated to education in emergency situations.
in writing. ‒ education is a fundamental human right and a right of every child and is a key element for the full enjoyment of all other social, economic, cultural and political rights. today, many children living in conflict zones are denied the basic right to education or risk interruption of their schooling due to prolonged tensions within their area. i firmly believe that education is the foundation of responsible citizenship and that it can transform a society and contribute to social, economic and political equality. unfortunately, however, in emergencies, the goal of providing quality education is not always a priority for humanitarian responses. i am in favour of this motion for a resolution, which considers education as a priority in countries in difficulty, not only primary education but also secondary education, since every child is first and foremost a child whose rights must be respected without discrimination. i think it is a good proposal to create 'educational corridors' to facilitate the admission of students from countries in conflict to universities and i am in favour of increasing humanitarian funds for education in emergency situations.
in writing. ‒ the oral question (o-000147/2015 (deve)) and the resolution (pending lv) focus on the situation of children in emergency and protracted crisis situations. i am voting in favour given the very nature of the report, which seeks to ensure greater attention to children and to ensure that they have continuing education, psychological support, emergency response and well-established and secure humanitarian aid. it helps to safeguard refugee children, displaced children or children living in places where political stability is lacking, by providing them with psychological support, but above all with continuing education in order to protect and safeguard the common good, but also to know and assert their rights.
in writing. ‒ i support this resolution which rightly recalls the value of education and calls for more investment in the sector with a particular focus on the education of children living in crisis or conflict zones.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's motion for a resolution on education for children in situations of prolonged emergency and crisis, as one billion children currently live in conflict zones and their fundamental right to education is being violated. i believe that public education is the foundation of an advanced civilization, which contributes to the improvement of the living conditions of everyone and promotes social, economic, political and gender integration and equality, the latter being an essential and preeminent element of women's emancipation, aimed at preventing violence against women. unfortunately, we still have to acknowledge how detrimental it is for human beings to not have the opportunity to learn and therefore to progress, how often this essential good is underestimated, and despite being in an emergency situation, less than 2% of all humanitarian funds were allocated to this sector in 2014. therefore, i fully agree and believe it is essential to support the announcement by the european commissioner for humanitarian aid and crisis management to allocate 4% of the eu humanitarian aid budget to the education of children in emergency situations by 2019.
in writing. i gave my favourable opinion because i believe that education for children, as well as being a fundamental and inalienable right of every individual, as enshrined in the 1989 un convention on the rights of the child, is one of the main instruments for finding a solution and for improving the lot of people affected by war or by tragic and unforeseeable events, such as natural disasters. given that almost one billion children worldwide, about a quarter of whom are under five years old, live in war zones and are denied their right to education, i think it is significant that this parliament is calling for the adoption of measures that will enshrine a concrete eu commitment to their protection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the education of children in emergency situations and prolonged crises. education is a fundamental human right which must be respected and protected for all, especially for children, without discrimination and regardless of ethnic origin or nationality. sadly, even today, nearly one billion children are denied this right, especially those living in conflict zones. some 65 million children are affected by emergencies and are at risk of interruption of their schooling. action by the european union is essential to take action and to include the education and protection of children among its priorities, so that this right, which is the key to the full enjoyment of all other social, economic and cultural rights, the foundation of responsible citizenship, is respected.
in writing. ‒ the united nations estimates that one billion children live in conflict zones, nearly 10 million children are refugees. these are children who are denied rights that governments have pledged to respect in the 1989 un convention, including the fundamental right to education. i therefore feel it is necessary to support the position of mrs mcavan, who in the motion for a resolution underlines the need to pay attention to secondary education and vocational training in addition to basic primary education and calls for the development of specific reception schemes for unaccompanied minors and for single mothers with children.
in writing. ‒ the waves of refugees pouring into europe raise issues not only in the field of humanitarian law but also in the field of international human rights protection. and it's a universal human right, recognized by the 1948 united nations universal declaration, to ensure education for all children. we cannot therefore forget, all the more so when these children come from conflict situations, are forced to leave their homes, their schools and their country. it is our duty to ensure that they continue their studies. i would remind you that organizations like unesco have emerged from the very conviction that it is not possible to build a future of peace unless we educate children and future generations in peace. ensuring continuity of education for refugee children is therefore an investment in the future stability and peace building of the countries of the european union and those from which the refugees come. i would therefore have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the protection of children and the prevention of abuse and trafficking involve their inclusion in schools and educational programmes, the definition of standards for reception, inclusion and language support. it is essential to support refugee students in transit also through cooperation with the different international organisations. the creation of 'educational corridors' to welcome students from countries in conflict to universities is necessary. the new information and communication technologies have taken on an increasingly important role in the field of education in emergency situations and can enhance the activities of operators in these contexts, including through e-learning and e-teaching platforms. this report is going in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ the protection of children in times of crisis or war is an essential duty. the european union cannot turn a blind eye to what is happening in many parts of the world, nor can it ignore the political, economic and humanitarian aspects of the matter. many steps have been taken, but many objectives remain to be achieved. i therefore voted in favour of a report which expresses the need to give the eu even greater responsibility for the protection of children.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is essential that european cohesion policy moves towards a clear simplification. our businesses, our territories and our citizens need less administrative burden, less regulation at both national and regional level. i also believe that the commission itself should have a less bureaucratic approach to the submission of applications for access to eu funding, so as to facilitate access and disbursement, maximising effectiveness, and for all these reasons i have voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ simplifying cohesion policy is an important step towards making the most of the growth and development opportunities it offers, especially in view of its contribution to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. investments in small and medium-sized enterprises, macro-regional strategies and urban and territorial strategies demonstrate the close link between the support provided by cohesion policy and the union's short- and long-term objectives. however, the benefits of cohesion policy and its funding are still not being fully exploited, mainly because of the numerous bureaucratic burdens that prevent those who could benefit from them from enjoying them fully. this requires a simpler cohesion policy, which attracts potential beneficiaries to this key instrument by making the procedures for managing and disbursing funds more streamlined and transparent. a more tangible and measurable results-oriented approach is also needed, making the policy more accessible, including in terms of timelines for obtaining funding.
in writing. ‒ the commission should introduce detailed simplification guidelines to make member states and regions aware of their responsibility to eliminate, or at least significantly reduce, administrative burdens and over-regulation at national and local level in the context of procurement procedures, the selection of proposed projects and monitoring and control activities. the commission is invited to define and apply, in coordination with the member states and in line with the principle of proportionality, a 'lightweight' approach to the data and information obligations of beneficiaries during the application and reporting phases of eu funding under shared management. the commission and the member states shall make more frequent use of the multi-fund approach, taking into account the needs of the beneficiaries. i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on 'towards simplifying cohesion policy for 2014-2020 and making it results-oriented'. the union institutions have made considerable progress in simplifying the procedures for access to the european structural and investment funds. despite the improvements made, however, there is still a lot of work to be done to streamline procedures to avoid the impact of investments promoted by union funds being limited by excessive regulation. the proposal under consideration calls on the commission to introduce detailed simplification guidelines to eliminate or significantly reduce the administrative burden of local legislation and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the existing over-regulation under the reformed cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period also in terms of the transposition of the rules into national law acts as a brake and generates indirect costs for potential beneficiaries seeking eu funding, thereby reducing the impact on investments from union funds and creating obstacles for beneficiaries, citizens and businesses in the eu, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the commission and the member states to promote the simplification of the rules governing financial instruments within the framework of the european structural and investment funds, in order to bring them closer to the needs of the beneficiaries and, ultimately, to improve their use.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because the union institutions have made considerable progress towards simplification by adopting several measures, including the simplification programme of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. despite the focus on simplification methods in the reformed cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period, the submission of applications, management, reporting and control in the framework of the esi funds remain complex for both beneficiaries and managing authorities. parliament considered that the commission should introduce detailed simplification guidelines to make member states and regions aware of their role in significantly reducing administrative burdens and over-regulation at national and local level in the context of procurement procedures, the selection of proposed projects and monitoring and control activities, for example by avoiding frequent changes in regulations, simplifying language and standardising procedures, and by targeting the eu budget towards achieving tangible results. it also called on the commission to engage in a structured and permanent dialogue with parliament, the committee of the regions and other stakeholders on all aspects of the simplification process.
in writing. ‒ despite the considerable progress made by the european institutions towards simplifying the rules and administrative procedures in the context of cohesion policy, there are still many bureaucratic obstacles to the proper functioning of the allocation of european structural and investment funds. in particular, it highlights the difficulties faced by both the beneficiaries and the managing authorities of the funds with regard to the procedures for submitting applications, managing, reporting and monitoring investments. the complexity of the procedures and the existing over-regulation are the main causes of this criticism. administrative simplification should be balanced with the detection and prevention of irregularities and fraud through the rationalisation and structured organisation of control, monitoring and reporting activities. in this regard, member states should commit themselves to significantly reducing the administrative and bureaucratic burden on citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises at national and local level and to monitoring procurement and project award procedures. i support the motion for a resolution as it seeks to simplify the rules of cohesion policy, making financial instruments more accessible to beneficiaries and improving their use.
in writing. ‒ this is a particularly sensitive and complex issue, which will be at the heart of both the 2014-2020 and the post-2020 implementation. the council and the commission recognise that good governance and administrative capacity are among the main prerequisites for achieving the objectives of cohesion policy and that the responsibility for improving administrative capacity lies with the member states and their regions, although supported by the commission. however, a dangerous prospect is to be avoided, whereby small and rich countries with limited financial allocations converge on a concept of simplification strongly linked to proportionality, which is translated into: financial dimension of resources, quality of governance, management of programmes, level of risk of regularity of investments. so the danger to be avoided is a two-dimensional world: all simple and light for the small and good group, and vice versa, multiple controls for those with many resources and weak management skills. simplification means paying more attention to the content and less to the pieces of paper and, above all, ensuring equal treatment between member states and interpreting the principle of proportionality correctly.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this resolution which aims to simplify and raise awareness among member states and regions of their responsibility to eliminate, or at least reduce, administrative burdens in the context of procurement procedures, the selection of proposed projects and monitoring and control activities.
in writing. i voted in favour of this important motion, which has my colleague theresa reintke as rapporteur. the economic crisis of recent years has in many cases forced member states to adopt restrictive budgetary policy choices, which have reduced the financial capacity, particularly of local authorities, creating disparities between the various regions and municipalities within them. in this case, parliament, the council and the commission are called upon to mobilise cohesion policy in favour of the city of rome, which is facing major challenges of change and modernisation, not least the great event of the jubilee.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is the union's main investment policy, providing the framework and investment strategy needed for investments of the agreed growth objectives. the european union aims to achieve five concrete objectives by 2020 in the fields of innovation, employment, education, social inclusion and climate/energy. despite the significant progress made by the union institutions towards simplification, detailed simplification guidelines are still needed to enable member states and regions to eliminate or drastically reduce the over-regulation of procedures at national and local level.
in writing. ‒ the resolution proposal deals with the simplification of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020. given the existing over-regulation, including the transposition of rules into national law, and the complexity of the procedures, which can place a heavy burden on small and mediumsized enterprises, ngos and municipalities that need eu funding, i feel i must support the position of my colleagues who have drawn up the proposal. it calls on the commission to introduce simplification guidelines to encourage member states to reduce the burden on national and local authorities in the context of various administrative procedures, such as procurement procedures, the selection of proposed projects and monitoring and control activities.
in writing. ‒ while recognising the progress made by the european institutions towards simplifying the esi funds system, the procedural rules on the submission of applications, management, control and reporting still define a particularly complex system for both managing authorities and beneficiaries. over-regulation, partly caused by the redundancy of legislation created by the transposition of community legislation, leads to a prolongation of time which, in turn, increases indirect costs for beneficiaries and reduces the impact of investments. the complexity of procedures and administrative delays are a deterrent for small and medium-sized enterprises, small local authorities and smaller ngos. in view of the facts, i can only welcome a resolution which promotes a simplification process which takes particular account of small and mediumsized enterprises and smaller local bodies. i am particularly in favour of the call on the commission to draw up simplification guidelines for the national administrative authorities responsible for managing the esi funds. i also support the reduction of the financial burden on beneficiaries and the establishment of a single desk.
in writing. ‒ i have always tried to support, through my parliamentary work, the need to make european funds more accessible to potential beneficiaries, in particular by simplifying the procedures for participation and making the parameters and evaluation mechanisms for submitted projects more transparent. the administrative burden and over-regulation, in my view, are an obstacle to the effective and efficient use of european funds by the beneficiaries, particularly by small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to simplify the procedure for the adoption of the directive on the protection of the environment by the member states. i would therefore have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ despite the progress made by the eu institutions towards simplifying cohesion policy, the application, management, reporting and control of esi funds remain complex, both for beneficiaries and for managing authorities, especially for those with fewer administrative and financial resources. this entails significant indirect costs for potential beneficiaries of eu funding. i therefore believe that simplification of existing legislation, language and procedures is necessary in order to achieve tangible results. that is why i am voting in favour today.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure on the simplification of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 as i believe that the procedures for accessing the european structural and investment funds need to be further simplified. member states should endeavour to significantly reduce administrative burdens and over-regulation at national and local level in the context of procurement procedures, the selection of proposed projects and monitoring and control activities.
i believe that the agreement with turkey is an opportunity for all, but it is certainly not a blank cheque. we socialists and democrats have not changed our position, turkey's future for us is in the european union, so it is good that the negotiations are resumed and that serious discussions are being started on visa liberalization. turkey needs europe because the link with the european union is the bulwark for turkey to avoid authoritarian temptations and the erosion of democracy, and we also need turkey because ankara is a force for stability and without the cooperation of our turkish friends it will not be possible to manage the refugee crisis. we therefore support the efforts made by the commission and appreciate the valuable work done in particular by vice-president timmermans, but extending a hand to turkey does not mean giving turkey a blank cheque, let alone underestimating the drift we are unfortunately witnessing. i want to say this with all sincerity, i am a little concerned - indeed, very concerned - about the suppression of freedom of fundamental freedoms that we seem to be witnessing in turkey. attacks on minorities, especially the kurdish minority, are not acceptable. and even the concentration of power in the hands of one individual is bad for democracy. we will also check that the planned funding, as mr timmermans rightly said, actually goes to the refugees. i would therefore like to thank the commission for its support, but i would also like to ask that this agreement not be turned into a kind of forced and forced marriage, the expiry of which has already been determined. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was speaking about the usefulness of turkey for stability, because, as everyone knows, a large part of the refugee crisis cannot be solved with turkey's cooperation alone. we must be realistic. secondly, we want to correct turkey's shortcomings, which i admit are there and there are many. so we must increase the level of confrontation, opening chapters does not mean giving turkey a winning hand, but rather putting turkey back against the wall and that is to say, checking whether we can really move forward in terms of human rights, the solution of the cyprus question, which is also essential for us. i think that when we want to solve problems it is useful to discuss and dialogue and confront with our interlocutors, this is the meaning of our initiative.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you have spoken of turkey as an ally of the european union, as a member of nato. i would like to ask what value you attach to the daily slaughter of the kurdish people by the erdogan government, if this is the subject of an assessment by this european parliament. we have already talked about not giving a blank cheque to turkey, but i think we should perhaps raise the issue of giving money to outsource the borders of the european union to a government which is guilty of massacring a people on a daily basis.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, just to tell my colleague that he has rightly spoken of europe's monitoring activities in relation to turkey and another concept that i have not heard in this house: i'm not going to say that. i would like to remind you that i have seen with my own eyes what turkey is doing in cyprus with the destruction of the orthodox churches. we must also talk about this and the various problems in relations between europe and turkey.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we should be talking about a winter in europe in the future: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the accession negotiations were interrupted for a very clear reason, because turkey was rightly considered an islamic country and therefore with big problems. it is no longer islamic, erdoğan's turkey that in 2008 comes to germany and declares that assimilation is genocide against humanity, now there is no more talk about it. we are giving them the opening up of visas, even in the libe committee the attention of the europeans was drawn to this, and it was said: but do you know what you're doing? the european union has not yet been able to take action on the situation in turkey, and it is not yet clear whether the turkish authorities will be able to take action on the situation in turkey. we want to remember these values or we think we are selling them out in the face of the refugee problem. shame on the europe! shame on you! (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent events and the very serious provocation by turkey against russia, which poses very serious risks to peace and stability in europe and the world, seem to be the best answer to your question.
first vice-president of the commission.– madam president, this morning in the commission we adopted an important package on the circular economy. it is the result of very intensive teamwork and it really is a pleasure to present this package to you today, together with vice-president katainen and commissioner vella. this is a really innovative way of working in the commission. we have worked together with more than half of the commissioners for a year to bring everything together because here, if we want to make this transformation, we need all areas of our activities. and so this novel way of working is something that is also the way forward: the way the commission should be working in the future. in the week that cop21 in paris has started, this is, i think, a very timely proposal. action on the circular economy ties in closely with our energy and climate policies. more and more evidence shows the wider benefits of the circular economy, including in lowering carbon dioxide emissions. there are many good reasons for moving away from our linear economic model, which is extremely resource-intensive. in a world where the population rises every day, with huge demands placed on land, water, food, feed, raw materials and energy, we cannot rely further on a ‘take, make, use and throw away’ approach. the circular economy, as an agenda for change, is not only an environmental necessity, it is the only model that makes sense in the long term for our european economy. it makes economic sense to use natural resources in a smarter way. europe cannot compete on wage costs, although sometimes we try – and we lose. and europe is not graced with the same natural resources as other parts of the world: they are finite in europe, and when they are available, they are very expensive. the future is in providing products that are used and reused and do not deplete the earth’s natural resources. it will also allow us to continue as a market leader for green technologies. so the question is not whether we want to set europe on a circular path of growth. it is rather how we, at our level, help our businesses, citizens and member states to get where they want to be, where they need to be, and to get there more quickly and in better shape. with the package we are proposing today, we want to give a concrete push to the circular economy and accelerate the transition. what we are presenting is an ambitious and comprehensive eu framework that europe needs to take action and make real progress towards the circular economy. it is an all-encompassing approach of smart regulation, market- based instruments, innovation and incentives. it is a clear signal to economic operators that we are simplifying the eu single market in this area to create new business opportunities and to boost the market for secondary raw materials. we want to be more ambitious than in the past by going beyond waste, with measures covering the full life-cycle of products, from the design of a product and production processes – and of better-informed consumption choices – to modern waste management. we want to back this up with our financial instruments and funds. our action plan and revised waste proposals adopted today are mutually supportive measures that will contribute to making real progress on the ground. while jyrki will shortly go into more detail on the wide range of actions we propose, let me say a word about our waste management proposals. continuously advancing on waste management remains a priority. with targets, and through incentives and support for recycling and reuse, we want to ensure that resources stay within the circle and are available for future use. waste is not managed as well as it could be. from the total waste production in the eu, only a limited share, 36%, was effectively recycled. the largest share, 37%, was simply sent for disposal, whether in landfills or on the land. losing this material means that significant growth and competitiveness potential is not being exploited. to fundamentally improve waste management practices we need eu waste legislation. the legislative package we have adopted today will provide a very clear and stable policy framework allowing public and private actors across the eu to develop long-term investment strategies focusing on prevention, reuse and recycling, and avoiding overcapacity in incineration. is it ambitious? well, let me say that this is most likely the world’s most ambitious legislation and probably contains the strictest recycling and land-filling targets on earth. our proposal will also reduce the administrative burden for smes and public administrations by improving definitions and simplifying reporting requirements. while reflecting a high level of ambition, our proposals also take due account of the different realities and recycling performance levels across the eu. differences today are huge, but our objective is to achieve gradual convergence to best-practice levels. efforts to close today’s implementation gaps will be supported by the eu cohesion policy, with eur 5.5 billion already available in the run-up to 2020. food waste is a particular priority area where we want rapid change. it is economically, socially and, quite simply, morally unacceptable that so much edible food is wasted every year in europe. in september we adopted the un sustainability development goals, including a target to halve food waste by 2030 at the retail and consumer level, and to reduce food losses along production and supply chains. the eu and its member states are committed to delivering on this target. with that aim, we will develop a reliable method to quantify and understand food waste in order to act on it efficiently. we will also work hand-in-hand with member states and stakeholders on a dedicated platform to support the achievement of our goal. if i may, i would now like to give the floor to vice-president katainen.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, it is a very big honour to be here to discuss with you the very significant package the commission has proposed. this is part of the european investment package. the circular economy is a phenomenon in the global market economy which one can compare to globalisation, which we have witnessed over the last two decades. so it is not just a side-effect or a secondary element of the market economy; instead it is a global mega-trend and will be even more so in the years to come. the package which we have proposed is more ambitious than the previous legislative package on waste. now we are completing the circle. now we can really talk about the circular economy package. this package is a competitive package and it is also a single market package. how ambitious it is can be measured partially also by the speed with which the co-legislators are dealing with the proposals that the commissioner is bringing forward. this is about empowering consumers and encouraging businesses to move from an inefficient and unsustainable linear economy to a circular market economy. the package is the beginning of the story. it will not transform the european economy from the current linear model in one go, overnight, to a circular economy. but at least, at the moment, with this package we can create a good start and a good basis and a good structure to further develop circular economy initiatives. the action plan will complement the two initial legislative proposals concerning waste. in the action plan there are proposals ranging from product design to creating an internal market to secondary raw materials, and further support for the industrial symbiosis by recognising the value of by-products. a key objective here is to work on further deepening the eu single market, which is also the most important part of the investment plan for the eu. this matters because there are barriers that make it difficult for businesses to optimise the resources used. that is why creating a market for secondary raw materials and ensuring a reliable quality standard is crucial. it is fundamentally about broadening our internal market. the ecodesign framework is a tool to strengthen development where products are easier to repair, dismantle and recycle. we will broaden the scope of ecodesign from energy efficiency to resource efficiency. ecodesign is an important tool, which will empower consumers and create a level playing field for businesses. we are also announcing a specific strategy on plastics – an important and complex issue. today only 25% of plastic waste is recycled, whereas half goes to landfills, with economic and environmental consequences. large quantities of those plastics end up in the oceans, creating marine litter. we will develop work to address all these issues based on the latest evidence. in addition to this, there will also be a revised regulation on fertilisers in order to recognise organic and waste-based fertilisers and to support bio-nutrition. also, there will be a legislative proposal on minimum standards for reused water for irrigation. public authorities, starting with the commission, will be encouraged to step up their uptake of circular economic criteria in public procurement. this has great potential for the circular economy, as public procurement makes up nearly 20% of eu gdp. we will therefore emphasise circular economy aspects in new or revised criteria for creating public procurement, and the commission will lead by example. finally, the commission strongly supports innovation to make the circular economy happen. we need to rethink our ways of producing and consuming. we need to create new technologies and business models, which will shape our future. in the horizon 2020 work programmes for 2016 and 2017, we are putting eur 650 million on the table for innovative demonstration projects. added to this, there are eur 5.5 billion in structural funds for circular economy purposes. in addition to this, efsi can finance projects which are either joint ventures between the private and public sectors or private investors. so by quickly implementing the proposals now, we can achieve both economic and environmental – but also societal – gains by transforming our linear economy to a circular market economy. let us give consumers an opportunity to lead the transformation by their choices, and let us strengthen competitiveness and create incentives to businesses to change their business models.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must thank the vice-presidents for having kept their commitment on behalf of the commission, for having brought us this proposal within the year, which parliament had strongly wanted and defended last year. this is a proposal which vice-president timmermans had described as more ambitious and certainly is insofar as it is part of a circular economy package and if we were to assess it solely on the basis of waste targets, we would probably assess it differently. but i think it is more ambitious, also because it gives us the possibility, with different positions, for different states with different conditions, to achieve the objectives, and therefore to have a proposal that is well calibrated in relation to the current situation. perhaps we wanted to hear a little more about food waste, we have heard about it and perhaps we expected something more, but certainly the path will be useful in improving the proposal and in achieving a more balanced package which is what this parliament wanted.
on behalf of the s&d group: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-presidents, commissioner vella, you spoke, you said you would present the new proposal on the circular economy by the end of the year and we are here today to discuss it; you also said that you would put forward a proposal that would close the loop, as opposed to the withdrawal that focused only on the delivery of waste. today we have before us an action plan which, with precise actions and deadlines, identifies from the initial moment of the ecodesign of a product, the steps necessary to accelerate the transition of our economic system from linear to circular, with a holistic vision that is fundamental for us socialists and democrats. i think that is a good starting point, and on the other hand we can no longer afford to have 600 million tonnes of waste, which could be reused as raw materials and resources, thrown away in europe every year. but it would be a mistake to consider the circular economy as just an environmental policy or, worse, a waste issue. it is much more than that! i cannot help but note that the fact that several directorates-general have collaborated on the proposal, in itself, underlines that the circular economy is a mainstreaming policy across all commission sectors and we will be watching closely to ensure that this happens with the appropriate funding. but there is one point where you have not kept your promise to the end: the commission has already made a number of proposals to reduce the recycling rate of municipal waste to 65%. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. clearly, we are not keen on targets, the problem is not one percentage point more or less, the problem, commissioners, is that with an ambitious roadmap like the one you have presented, to be credible, it must be supported by the definition of measurable objectives to be achieved that are equally ambitious and because, if we really want to move towards a circular economy, it is also with really ambitious targets that we can promote a system that reduces waste and focuses on efficiency, sustainability and recycling, and the reuse of products. i have already said that the socialist and democratic group is not prepared to lower the bar on this point.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, no reference to the elimination of incentives for fossil fuels; no reference to the removal of incentives for incineration and landfilling; no reuse target, a target on municipal waste recycling going from 70 to 65% in 2030, a target on packaging recycling going from 80 to 75% and a target on food waste going from 30% to no obligation. since i have been here, the word i have heard most is ambition, but it is also the word which has lost most of its meaning for me, so the members who have become accomplices, who have married this word to this proposal, are, in my view, accomplices of a weakened proposal.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the package and the communication on the circular economy are a step forward. we like the systems approach that overcomes the misguided logic of sectoral intervention, waste management, food waste, eco-design, re-engineering of production cycles, sustainable buildings, green procurement, these are big interconnected issues. the approach is right, not everything is satisfactory, not everything is good. ambitious targets must be translated into legislation and timetables that are both certain and stringent. time is not an independent variable. it is a matter of courage and determination, the exact opposite of what the council did in the volkswagen case. more ambitious targets for waste, binding deadlines on targets, a more decisive step forward on efficiency indicators, the gap on marine pollution needs to be filled, as well as the commitment to comply with the un decision to halve food waste by 2030, but we need certain deadlines and legislative commitments.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commission representatives, to ensure sustainable growth in the union we must use the resources at our disposal in a smarter way. the circular economy is a necessity for europe: we need to reduce co2 emissions, be more efficient in the supply of raw materials. the circular economy therefore represents a great opportunity, it will help our companies to be more competitive in the world, it will open up new markets, it will also offer growth in traditional sectors such as steel and aluminium and it will also encourage the green economy. i welcome the commission's package to strengthen our global competitiveness by stimulating sustainable economic growth and job creation. i therefore hope that this package will be a further step in the union's reindustrialisation strategy, endorsed by the commission, which aims to achieve the target of 20% of gross domestic product coming from manufacturing by 2020. our commitment to combating climate change cannot be separated from the central role that industry has and must continue to play in europe. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we must find a fair compromise, which i always tried to achieve when i was commissioner, between environmental policy and industrial policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the third industrial revolution can only be a green industrial revolution, and it is obvious that the right compromises must be found, sector by sector, including the rubber sector, to promote industry and not harm the environment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, by presenting the new proposal on the circular economy by 2015, the commission is fulfilling the commitments it made to parliament, as in the resolution of last july. the package is a little less ambitious and a little bit forgetful. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. we have pointed out the importance of achieving a binding and gradual reduction in all types of landfill, until we reach a complete ban, and here too the commission maintains a 10% target. the economic and consumption patterns of the european union are based on an environmentally unsustainable model. we are fortunate to live in one of the most prosperous regions in the world and as such, we have a moral obligation to develop products and processes tailored to implement a circular economy that also allows us to exploit our innovation potential, generating jobs and growth. i will therefore work with my colleagues to improve the commission's proposal in order to deliver a more ambitious circular economy package to european citizens, capable of achieving the objectives of the seventh environment action programme.
in writing. every year in the european union, about 100 million tonnes of food is wasted: this is an invaluable loss that occurs throughout the food supply chain and that has a heavy economic, environmental and social impact on the european economy every day. the road map presented by the european commission on wednesday 2 december aims to facilitate the transition of the european economy from linear to circular and includes among its objectives the definition of smarter and more environmentally sustainable european standards on waste disposal and the fight against waste, including food, by facilitating the redistribution of safe and edible food to those who need it. i believe that the full transition to this new circular economy model, which is a long-term and global strategic objective, can only be achieved through the immediate definition of legislative initiatives with concrete prevention targets and clear and measurable objectives, which are even more ambitious than those envisaged in the commission's package of proposals so far. only in this way will the european union be able to meet the ecological and food challenges of the new millennium, while respecting the principle of safeguarding precious goods and resources, the waste of which is intolerable.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank the two co-rapporteurs, mrs metsola and mrs keller, for their excellent work, and also all the other shadow rapporteurs. it is an extremely important report, which comes at an extremely important and necessary time, it is necessary because the provision of a mechanism guaranteeing the possibility of submitting individual complaints also to third parties such as ngos, law firms, is something that can no longer be deferred and therefore it would have been preferable in our opinion that the handling of complaints was handled by a body with more extensive guarantees of independence; we had planned for a panel of independent experts, so as to ensure greater objectivity, greater third-party liability, but we hope that the mechanism proposed in the report will still be able to guarantee the objectivity and impartiality required in the handling of appeals. it is hoped that the commission will follow up these recommendations in such a way as to ensure information, transparency and clear procedures for the protection of fundamental rights in the context of frontex operations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the excellent work of the rapporteurs, which is not easy, has succeeded in creating a very balanced text, where there is, on the one hand, the introduction of human rights and the possibility of individual complaints, and, on the other, the avoidance of abuse itself, and it was certainly not easy at the beginning when we started working on the text. i would also like to remind you of the commitment of the italian delegation, especially in the case of the introduction of vulnerable people and pregnant women and children, and that a fair means, a fair compromise, has also been created with regard to anonymous complaints, which on the one hand cannot be made and, on the other, there is also the possibility for a third party, on people in good faith, to make complaints.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the climate, health and social emergency we are living through calls for the clearest analysis: the european union is leading the cop21 in paris on remedies for environmental disaster, but political commitment is threatened by the systematic manipulation of legislation by european producers. after the volkswagen scandal, i would like to be refuted by the commission on the fact that applying a conformity factor of 2.1 does not significantly weaken the euro 6 emission standard and does not undermine the reliability and effectiveness of conformity testing itself, allowing the production of vehicles emitting more than twice the amount of ozone oxide set by euro 6. if so, it would be a very negative symptom of the automobile industry's ability to delay the definition of a regulatory framework adequate to the ambitions of planetary needs for quality of life, health and climate protection. i therefore agree with the priority given by the report to sustainable urban mobility, energy saving, climate protection and the need to give back space and infrastructure to citizens.
in writing. the fight for a sustainable economy has always been one of the top priorities of our delegation and transport is without doubt one of the areas where this battle must be fought. the use of private cars with conventional fuels must be gradually replaced by means of transport that are common, public but also private, and environmentally friendly. at this time, with cop21 under way, it is important to reiterate the absolute need to stop the climate change race and the report voted on today goes exactly in that direction.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i cannot give the positive assessment that some of my colleagues have given me of the european year of development, because while it is true that we have used the resources to advertise, to talk about development, it is also true that development has been mentioned for other reasons, for the crisis, for the refugee crisis, for the increase in the flow of migrants to europe, and then some people began to ask: perhaps the best way to solve such big problems is to look at development policies outside europe. i think that, on the other hand, we have not been able to show in the course of this year that development is important, because there has been no significant increase in programmes and results. we hope that the discussions we have had this year and the commitments we have made in september will lead to positive results in the future, but i do not think that this is the time to sum up and talk about results, but simply to hope that something will change, because as mrs sánchez rightly said, we live in an institution where the right hand does not know what the left hand is doing, or rather the left hand is perhaps the strongest, which is trade policy, which is totally contrary to the principles of development and cooperation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am not only a member of the european parliament but also the mayor of a small town in northern italy, and when i look at the budgets of the european community and see how the money is spent, i really get ulcers every time. we must take alka-seltzer all the time, because the anger i get when i see how money is thrown away when there are so many realities, both in italy and in europe, where people try to be present on spending, to help citizens, to help businesses, to really help those in need, is an insult to the fact that we are, so to speak, economically correct. and to think that you give money, as it was said before, to turkey, for example: 10 billion euros and now we give them more; when we see how turkey works, it's an insult, just as we give money all over the world and forget our people, europe, the europeans, those who pay taxes that allow us to have money, so ... (the president withdraws from the speaker)
in writing. 2015 was a landmark year for the union's external relations and its focus on global cooperation and development sent a clear message of unity. this house has said many times that we need more unity in this europe. and if the union too often appears divided on the foreign policy front, it is certainly united on the cooperation front. the european union is the world's largest donor and provides over half of global official development assistance. it was right to bring this to the forefront, to inform, to engage the public. but now we need a proper budget. the results of international cooperation are not always quantifiable, but we know that unfortunately there are still 1 billion people in the world who live in extreme poverty. the 2030 agenda is ambitious: ending poverty and hunger in the world can no longer be just a dream.
i am very sorry to hear that a colleague has ignored a problem that is plain to see: the lack of a european policy on the environment. it has been calculated that since november 5th women have been working without pay because of the gender pay gap, or the lack of recognition of the pay gap between women and men that exists in my country, that exists in the european union. it is not a question of setting quotas to protect women, it is a question of making a world less discriminatory in which discrimination against women is still very high, as in the boardrooms, but of course not only in the boardrooms. so it's about working together to understand what strategies can be used to finally defeat the glass ceiling, to create a world where men and women can be equally comfortable, with the same rights, with the same powers.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that this debate at this moment does not make sense in relation to a comparison i want to make with women. in several countries, unfortunately also here in europe, there is a method on women which is even done on girls: it's called infibulation, which is genital mutilation. these things are done in muslim countries, then muslims come to europe. these things are done to girls only for religious reasons and you talk about women in joint stock companies, women who should be everywhere, but you don't fight against this filth of those pigs who do things like this to girls! isn't that defending women? you're only interested in boardrooms, you're interested in money, in seeing women doing fashion shows at the s.p.a. and boardrooms. the filth is the infibulation of those muslims who like pigs hurt little girls who are ruined for life! this is disgusting! (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. yes, i would like to point out that i am 22nd out of 751 members in terms of attendance and work in the european parliament, so you are not lecturing me, i am lecturing you. second thing, i talk about what's going on in the world with women, and you talk about the board. but shame on you, you're just newcomers, you only think about power, you don't think about the things that are happening in the world, about women you fill your mouth because you're a radical chic communist with caviar and champagne. that's you! (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the five star movement we have always been opposed to the introduction of pink quotas, both in listed companies and in civil society and politics. this is because we demand that the effective participation and empowerment of women should be the result of our skills and competence and should be promoted by the definition of transparent and equal merit criteria for all. we do not want and do not think it right that we should be given managerial and professional positions simply because we are women, because that is true sexism. we believe we are worth more and deserve more. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for better or for worse, the european institutions must reach a clear decision in good time. this is something that will have to change and that is no longer tolerable for us.
in writing. measures to achieve the quantitative targets for the presence of women at the top of the company must be taken. the paradox - which i would consider ridiculous if not dramatic - is that it is not wished to admit that the subject of women, whatever the context in which it is addressed, is a moral obligation which cannot be postponed and is based on a difficult change of mentality. this delay in the application of the 'principle of nature', of gender equality, results in a reduction of europe's economic potential, whereas growth in innovation, research, training and skills acquisition is never accompanied by the active participation of women because it is limited by the lack of inclusion of women in decision-making bodies. it is not surprising, then, that studies show that a greater presence of women in the labour force would increase gdp by 21% in italy, 19% in spain, 9% in france and germany and 8% in the united kingdom. in the correlation between the percentage of women on boards and the financial performance of companies, the net return on equity is 41% higher than that in which women are absent. these data do not require further comment.
in writing. the text of the proposal for a directive on the gender balance in the boards of directors of listed european companies, as it stands, is a perfect example of respect for the principle of subsidiarity. it is a law that proposes a more transparent and fair selection process, without providing for measures such as gender quotas, which have also proved to be in the countries where they have been introduced, including italy the most effective and fastest way to really combat discrimination against women in decision-making places. i understand that the last year and a half has been full of important events that have catalyzed the attention of all the european institutions, but we can no longer afford to consider gender equality a b-priority. we have already abandoned the proposal for a directive on maternity leave, again because of disagreements between member states: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have an excellent compromise text today, the time for discussion is over and it is time to produce concrete results.
in writing. i hope that the council will soon reach agreement on this directive, the implementation of which would finally ensure a balanced representation of women on the boards of european listed companies. at a time when european women are still struggling to integrate fully into the economic and social life of the community, the adoption of this measure would symbolically and effectively confirm the equal vocation of the european union. the european parliament took up this challenge two years ago by voting by a large majority on the proposal. i therefore expect that the member states which have been reluctant to do so will also finally give up their reservations and accept the need for this. i am proud to point out one fact: the country i represent in the european community assembly, italy, has been a pioneer in this field, by passing a bipartisan law guaranteeing the presence of at least one fifth of women in the boards of publicly listed companies. i hope that the other european states will follow our example, overcoming their own perplexities in the name of the will to ensure the construction of a fully inclusive union.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the hungarian government has adopted political practices, has introduced reforms, has introduced legislation, has been accused of eroding democratic control and of creating an increasingly authoritarian regime. the democratic principles, the rule of law and human rights are under threat. the reality is that no strong action has been taken, especially at european level, to react to what is seen by many as a threat to the founding values of the european union. even two days ago, an initiative was put forward by citizens, it was registered on the website of the european commission, an initiative calling for the application of article 7 of the treaty on european union. the european union must therefore respond appropriately, it must have a mechanism for protecting fundamental rights that acts in a preventive manner and not wait until the death penalty is introduced, for example, and then punish a member state, otherwise respect for fundamental rights will be reduced to a declaration of intent.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the blue card is for asking questions. no, no, it's not a question, it's a consideration of yours, the question was not asked. mr lópez, what you have asked is not a question. i would like to thank mr lópez for his report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i also thank commissioner jourová for her report, but we are still concerned about the situation in hungary and the situation in those countries where the measures taken by governments can lead to a clear violation of fundamental rights and of those values, such as respect for human dignity, democracy and equality, on which the european union is founded. this is also true of the citizens of those countries, who, when they joined europe, believed in the model of democracy and the defence of rights that the union represents. we all therefore expect the european commission, as the guardian of the treaties, to monitor carefully and constantly the maintenance of the rule of law in all the member states and we expect the commission to deal with the question of rights in its entirety and not in a fragmented way, thus exercising its role in the european context in an incisive and effective way.
member of the commission.– mr president, due to the fact that my speech at the beginning was really quite long and i enumerated all the problems which we are addressing using the instruments we have in hand, i only want now to repeat that we are monitoring closely not only hungary, but also other member states. when we see, based on an objective, thorough assessment, that there is a systematic breach of the treaty, we will act using article 7. up till now we have been using the instruments which we have for the problems which i enumerated in my speech. this does not mean that i did not follow very closely what you have said and all your arguments, and i can only, on behalf of the commission, confirm here that hungary will be at the centre of our attention, as well as other member states where we see similar problems, because one of the principles which we have to keep to is equal treatment towards member states. let me thank you for the discussion.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. i find this debate rather superfluous, at least for now. the report calls for an update of the monitoring of the rule of law, democracy, human rights or the violation of them in hungary following the statements made by president orban months ago, which are certainly questionable but not necessary at this historic moment. we are talking about the exasperation of the democratic state and the systematic threat to the rule of law. well, i'll move the discussion to what orban did to protect his country: a real defence of the borders and, consequently, of its people. orban did well to launch a public, democratic consultation on immigration, also linking the phenomenon of migration and terrorism: in light of what happened just a few weeks ago, he saw us as right. consultations with the european union is it not true that europe must do more and that some policies are wrong? i find the 12 questions in the questionnaire to be absolutely legitimate, relevant and forward-looking. we talk about democracy and the involvement of the people through consultative referendums, but it is legitimate to ask what the hungarian president has done. we need a president like that in italy! good work, president orban!
the next item is the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the commission on the protection of the virunga national park in the democratic republic of the congo by linda mcavan, on behalf of the deve committee (o-000108/2015 - b8-1111/2015) (2015/2728 ((rsp)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, let us be clear: we are not going to be able to do this. it's good to talk about the situation of the virunga park, but we have no intention of solving the problem there, because the multinationals that are going to exploit the resources there - we're talking about oil - are european: soco is english, total is french. the companies which should be responsible for the electrification project of the park, which has been authorized by the congolese government, the democratic republic of congo, are belgian and british companies, so they are european companies, companies on which we should try to exert pressure or at least a modus operandi which is respectful of a place which is the greatest example of biodiversity, a park of 8,000 square meters, a park in which there are species to be protected, a park which is a heritage of humanity. but on the other hand, our priority has always been to protect trade diplomacy, so, in short, it is a little difficult to find a solution when you are doing one thing with one hand and doing the complete opposite with the other.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i just want to thank you for a useful discussion.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda shall include one-minute speeches in accordance with rule 163.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, sicily is an island with such an exceptional history that if you dig a metre everywhere you will find all kinds of archaeological finds. the european funds which are intended for the development of tourism in a structural way are unfortunately used to finance nativity scenes, festivals and village festivals. we found 315 000 euros spent on the illuminated staircase in caltagirone, 160 000 euros for the nativity scene in custonaci, to give examples, with money that should instead have been spent on the structural development of tourism in the region. this system is basically for local politics, to provide contributions to rain and to secure a certain consensus in elections. however, since it is european taxpayers' money and should serve to bring all reasons to the same level, we must try to change something in the rules between the controller and the controlled, who are often and willingly the same person, and who cause this kind of blackout, which then take away opportunities for sicilian citizens who are also european citizens who pay taxes and have the right to the same services.
the one-minute speeches under rule 163 of the rules of procedure will end here.
in writing. ‒ i wanted to support the reconfirmation of the members of the taxe committee, both because of the good work they have done and to ensure an immediate and effective continuation of what has been done so far.
in writing. - i vote for it. i am in favour of the establishment of a special committee on taxation, following on from the positive experience of the taxe committee. as the conference of presidents has stated, all the political groups in parliament intend to continue the experience of the taxe committee.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on the constitution, powers, numerical composition and term of office of the special committee on tax ruling and other measures of a similar nature or effect. the committee, which will have 45 members and a six-month mandate, will monitor both member states and multinationals. it has been shown that harmful practices by certain tax and national administrations allow multinational companies to shift profits to avoid taxation in the territories where they were generated. i therefore consider the establishment of this committee to be very important and i hope that it will succeed in ensuring that competition between governments in attracting foreign direct investment or in maintaining economic activities within the country is in full compliance with eu law.
in writing. ‒ i did not find any particular criticism, so i voted in favour of setting up a new taxe committee which will have to complete the remaining unresolved issues over the next six months.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision to set up a special committee on tax ruling and other measures of a similar nature and effect. the special committee will be responsible for analysing all existing aid schemes in the member states, will have 45 members, will have the structure of the special committee taxe and a mandate of 6 months starting from 2 december 2015. finally, the special committee is called upon to submit a report or a resolution summarising its work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft decision submitted under article 197 of the taxation regulation because, in view of the committee's decision to examine practices and in view of the resolution of late november 2015 on advance rulings in tax matters, i believe that each member state, under eu law, should voluntarily communicate to the other member states information on advance rulings. the aim must be to ensure the greatest possible transparency and communication between all member states; i believe that this is a fundamental prerogative which must be the basis for upholding the concept of 'union' which is so dear to us in the european union. i also agree with the decision to maintain the status quo, because what we wanted was an extension of the existing special committee and we have achieved our objective.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the establishment of a special committee on tax ruling and other measures similar in nature or effect, which will be responsible for examining the practices followed in the application of eu state aid and taxation rules. the commission will also be responsible for monitoring harmful corporate tax practices and schemes at european and international level. i therefore think it would be useful to draw up a report summarising the activities carried out.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the renewal of the mandate of the parliamentary special committee on tax ruling and other measures similar in nature or effect, which was strongly supported by the s&d group, because i believe it is of fundamental importance to continue the work done so far by this committee, on the basis of a much more robust mandate. i welcomed the extension of the mandate of the special committee (taxe 2) as i share the new tasks assigned to it, which include the possibility of examining the work of the european commission in the field of state aid and taxation, the compliance of member states with tax rules and aggressive tax planning by companies. the taxe 2 committee will be called upon to carry out important monitoring work on the implementation by the member states and the european institutions of the recommendations contained in the final report of the taxe 1 committee and will also have to follow up on the recommendations decided by international institutions such as the oecd and the g20. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the establishment of a special committee on tax ruling to examine the practice of applying eu state aid rules and other measures of a similar nature or effect adopted by member states. that committee shall build on and complement the work of the taxe special committee, in particular to access documents relevant to its work, to establish the necessary contacts and to hold hearings with international, european and national institutions and bodies, with national parliaments and governments of member states and third countries, and with representatives of academia, business and civil society.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the need for a special committee to take advance decisions on taxation. i take this opportunity to wish my colleagues well and i am confident that their commitment will contribute to the already excellent work of the taxe committee.
in writing. ‒ the new special committee of the european parliament, responsible for taxation, will focus its work mainly on dangerous tax practices by companies at european level. the new committee will have the same structure as the previous one. it will be composed of 45 members and will have the task, among other things, of examining the work of the european commission in the field of state aid and taxation and the compliance of the member states with tax regulations. it will also monitor compliance by member states and the european institutions with the recommendations made by the taxe parliamentary committee and follow up on recommendations made by international institutions such as the oecd and the g20, while respecting the competences of the committee on economic and monetary affairs with regard to taxation matters. i voted in favour of the establishment of this new parliamentary committee, hoping that it will work in the interests of european citizens and businesses, helping to make the european tax system more transparent and less burdensome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's proposal for a decision because i believe it is appropriate to renew the establishment of the special committee on tax rulings and other measures of a similar nature or effect. the commission will have 45 members, retain the structure of the special committee on taxation and have a six-month mandate. one of the main tasks of the commission will be to analyse and assess the practices in the application of the european union state aid rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the new mandate of the taxe committee because it will not only be able to continue its work but also to undertake investigations with an even stronger mandate. parliament has sent a strong signal. the ball now goes to the commission and the member states to introduce effective rules against unlawful tax practices by companies.
in writing. - i vote for it. the members of taxe from the previous phase are reconfirmed for the enf group, as recommended by the conference of presidents itself, so that the good work completed with the own-initiative report voted in strasbourg during the last plenary session can be continued immediately.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of the members of the new taxe committee, which in fact retains the same composition as the previous one.
in writing. - i voted in favour. i think it is important to give a decisive boost to the appointments to the special committee on tax rulings. this is a decision on internal organization. its importance lies in the crucial nature of the subject and the implications in terms of administrative transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report appointing 45 members of the new special committee because i believe they will be able to analyse and assess in a more detailed and precise way all the aid schemes existing in the member states. i am also convinced that it will be possible to propose to the member states the appropriate measures required by the gradual development or functioning of the internal market in checking whether aid granted by a state, or through state funds, is compatible with the internal market and whether it is not being implemented in an abusive manner. finally, i think it is appropriate that the structure of the taxe committee should be retained in the new special committee and i take this opportunity to wish my warmest good wishes to the new members.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the appointment of my colleagues to the special committee on advance tax rulings and am convinced that they will do a great job in the field of tax ruling and will help to monitor harmful tax practices and regimes by all those companies operating at european and international level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for the appointment of members of the special committee on tax rulings because i believe that the members chosen for this purpose are competent in the field and willing.
in writing. ‒ the european union and the principality of liechtenstein signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial information to combat tax evasion and fraud in october 2015. it is important to remember that, unfortunately, the principality of liechtenstein, along with countries such as switzerland and monaco, is one of the most sensitive to the issue of tax evasion and avoidance, by both european and non-european citizens. the agreement is certainly a step forward in the control policies for compliance with financial and tax obligations at international level, but it could also be improved. that is why i decided to abstain from voting, because i believe that the text as it is formulated is not able to achieve the necessary level of control and cooperation, because of a number of regulatory gaps that can be easily overcome.
in writing. ‒ the report is shareable and free of criticism. the amendment to the agreement between the eu and the principality of liechtenstein will make the exchange of account and banking transaction information automatic, ensuring greater transparency and allowing for more effective action to combat tax fraud. i therefore voted in favour of this measure.
in writing. ‒ exchange of information is one of the main principles to be strengthened in the european continent in the field of taxation. at the end of october 2015, the eu and liechtenstein signed a tax treaty agreement that ensures greater control over compliance with tax laws and obligations, strengthens mutual commitment to combating tax fraud and tax evasion, and follows up on liechtenstein's commitment to have domestic instruments equivalent to those of the union (eu taxation of savings income directive). i support this report which further strengthens cooperation between the eu and liechtenstein.
in writing. - i vote for it. the agreement signed by parliament with liechtenstein will make it more difficult for eu citizens to hide capital from their national tax authorities; the european union and liechtenstein will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of each other's residents as of 2018.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the principality of liechtenstein providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. to strengthen the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, it is essential to promote the automatic exchange of information as the future european and international standard for tax transparency. this instrument is essential to combat subversive phenomena and ensures maximum transparency and cooperation between the administrations involved. the agreement is intended to ensure that the application by liechtenstein of measures in line with the legal framework of the european union applies enhanced measures equivalent to those provided for in the eu legal framework, as well as compliance with the automatic exchange of financial account information.
in writing. ‒ following the agreement between the european union and liechtenstein on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes signed on 28 october 2015, information on the financial accounts of their respective residents will be automatically exchanged from 2016 in order to step up efforts to combat fraud, tax evasion and avoidance. although the agreement in question certainly contains improvements over the present situation, i believe that a more comprehensive and in-depth agreement could and should have been sought, since it still has several regulatory gaps which can be easily overcome. i therefore preferred to abstain.
in writing. - i voted for the measure. the agreement between the european union and liechtenstein on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes from 2017 signed on 28 october 2015 represents an important step forward in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. the possibility of identifying taxpayers and applying cross-border tax rules in a uniform manner will act as a deterrent to the practice of concealing capital, whether it is income or assets that are the subject of tax evasion. the agreement is intended to ensure that liechtenstein applies enhanced measures equivalent to those provided for in the eu legal framework as updated in december 2014. the additional provisions aim to ensure that the information exchanged covers not only income such as interest and dividends but also account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. the rapporteur fully welcomes the agreement and calls for the deadline for its entry into force to be respected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the agreement signed between the european union and liechtenstein on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes has improved cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations. in addition, i believe that the agreement represents an important step forward in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion and improves on the 2004 agreement which guaranteed the application by liechtenstein of measures equivalent to those contained in the eu directive on taxation of savings income. finally, i would like to emphasize that the agreement is intended to ensure that liechtenstein applies enhanced measures equivalent to those provided for in the eu legal framework and respects the automatic exchange of information concerning financial accounts.
in writing. ‒ improving international cooperation and compliance with tax obligations is essential to combat tax fraud and evasion. therefore, i vote in favour of this ad hoc report to ensure that liechtenstein applies enhanced measures equivalent to those provided for in the eu legal framework and complies with the automatic exchange of financial account information promoted by the 2014 oecd global standards. this agreement will reduce the risk that taxpayers will be able to conceal income capital or engage in tax evasion activities. i also believe it is crucial that the agreement is concluded in time for its entry into force on 1 january 2016, in order to meet the agreed deadline.
in writing. the agreement signed on 28 october 2015 between the european union and liechtenstein aims to strengthen the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes. the primary objective is related to the application by liechtenstein of enhanced measures equivalent to those provided for in the eu legal framework. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the report, considering that this is a great step forward in tax matters and that it is perfectly in line with the global standards promoted by the oecd in this field.
in writing. ‒ we approve the conclusion of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the principality of liechtenstein providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. the agreement, signed on 28 october, represents a major step forward for the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes, as promoted by the 2014 oecd global standards. we believe that it can therefore contribute to ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion at international level and improve the 2004 agreement which guaranteed the application by liechtenstein of measures equivalent to those contained in the eu directive on taxation of savings income. from 2017, there will be an automatic exchange of information on the financial accounts of the respective residents in order to deal with situations where a taxpayer seeks to conceal capital consisting of income or assets that are subject to tax evasion. the additional provisions also aim to ensure that the information exchanged covers not only income such as interest and dividends but also account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets.
in writing. ‒ i support the agreement between the european union and liechtenstein on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes, which aims to improve cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations. it represents an important step forward in ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion and improves on the 2004 agreement which guaranteed liechtenstein's application of measures equivalent to those contained in the eu directive on taxation of savings income. the agreement will enable tax administrations in both the member states and liechtenstein to identify correctly and unequivocally the taxpayers concerned, ensuring the application of their tax legislation in cross-border situations.
in writing. ‒ the importance of combating tax evasion must always be stressed and any measures taken to this end deserve full attention and full support. in this case, the existing eu-liechtenstein agreement on this matter needs to be adapted to current european legislation in order to allow for a more effective exchange of information between the parties. i'm contributing by speaking positively about it.
in writing. ‒ the european union and liechtenstein, in order to ensure compliance with international tax obligations, have signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of information on the financial accounts of their respective residents. the aim of the agreement, which will enter into force on 1 january 2016, is to address the situation where a taxpayer seeks to conceal capital consisting of income or assets that are the subject of tax evasion. i voted in favour of approving this agreement because it represents a further step forward in the fight against fraud and tax evasion at european level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the principality of liechtenstein providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments, as i consider it necessary to combat tax fraud and tax evasion at both european and international level. the european union and the principality of liechtenstein have entered into an agreement signed on 28 october 2015 to exchange financial information for tax purposes of their respective residents as of 2017.
in writing. ‒ on 28 october 2015, the european union and liechtenstein signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes with the aim of ensuring a better level playing field for economic operators. i have decided to support the conclusion of the agreement with the principality because i believe that it represents an important step forward in the efforts being made to combat tax fraud and evasion. the member states and liechtenstein shall therefore start this automatic exchange of financial information between their administrations as from 2017. a similar agreement was concluded with switzerland and, as in that case, the objective is to prevent or detect situations where a taxpayer seeks to conceal capital consisting of illicit income or activities.
in writing. i have serious reservations about whether the eu-liechtenstein agreement on the automatic exchange of information on taxation of savings income is a credible and sufficient response to the problem of capital flight by large tax evaders. while recognising that progress has been made in the fight against tax evasion, i believe that many criticisms remain, linked to the narrow scope of the agreement - since it concerns only the taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments by residents - and above all to the existence of regulatory gaps, legal loopholes and excessive discretionary powers in relation to information requirements, which clearly leave open various channels for circumventing the legislation and give free rein to chinese boxes and to newcomers in other tax havens. i should also like to point out that, beyond the merits of the matter, parliament has once again been relegated to a purely symbolic and marginal role, since the agreement on which parliament's opinion is based had in any case been ratified more than a month earlier. for these reasons i have abstained on the report approving the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i have expressed my positive opinion on the agreement between the european union and liechtenstein because this text is in line with the socialist and democratic group's calls for greater transparency on tax matters in the eu and in relations with third countries. this agreement will automatically exchange information on residents' bank accounts to resolve capital situations that are hidden from the competent authorities.
in writing. ‒ on 28 october 2015, the european union and liechtenstein signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes, aimed at improving cooperation and compliance with international tax obligations. the eu and liechtenstein will therefore automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of their respective residents from 2016, in order to step up efforts to combat tax fraud, tax evasion and avoidance, which they see in liechtenstein as one of the most sensitive countries in these respects. the agreement certainly contains improvements compared with the present situation, but it is equally true that a more comprehensive and in-depth agreement could and should have been sought, since it still leaves several regulatory gaps which can be easily overcome. this is the second of a package of five agreements covering switzerland, liechtenstein, san marino, andorra and monaco: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the countries concerned. it is for these regions that i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ the european agency for the security of the external borders of the union (frontex) has been working since 2004 to promote cooperation between member states in the management of these areas, so that the work carried out by the competent authorities is in harmony with respect for fundamental rights enshrined in the eu. the report shall aim to ensure full and informed information about the process of revising the agency's rules of procedure. i voted in favour of the special report of the european ombudsman because i believe that it is of the utmost importance to take action to ensure that the levels of protection afforded to migrants are increased.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a vote is just another bureaucratic burden for frontex, which would further slow down an already inadequate operation. the report is also heavily skewed towards supporting a short-sighted policy which does not want to openly address the real emergency of mass immigration and which insists on talking about rights but not about the binding obligations which migrants should respect but which they systematically break. for these reasons i did not intend to support the text with my vote.
in writing. ‒ the resolution adopted today comes on the eve of the revision of the frontex regulation and fully welcomes the ombudsman's recommendation following the 2012 inquiry into the agency's compliance with its human rights obligations. at a time when the refugee crisis is an increasingly pressing issue requiring solutions at european level, frontex's role must be strengthened and its activities made more transparent, in full guarantee of fundamental human rights. in this respect, i welcome the report's proposal to establish an individual complaint mechanism within frontex. such a mechanism, by providing for a central role for the fundamental rights officer within the agency in the preliminary assessment of complaints and their referral to the competent authorities, would allow individuals to exercise their right to an effective remedy in the event of a violation of their rights, while enhancing the credibility of frontex's action.
in writing. ‒ this proposal aims to regulate the procedure for complaints against frontex border guards by migrants. the mechanism to be set up should analyse complaints of violations of the human rights of migrants and asylum seekers. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. this report is blatantly unbalanced in favour of the kind of soft-spoken policy we are opposing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of the environment. this proposal would be a further bureaucratic burden for frontex and would further slow down the work of the agency. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the european ombudsman's special report on the own-initiative inquiry oi/5/2012/beh-mhz concerning frontex. dealing with immigration, and in particular the problems associated with illegal entry, presents the eu with major challenges from both a legal and a humanitarian point of view. the balance must therefore be struck between the interest in controlling immigration and the humanitarian requirement to offer a safe place to people who enter illegally, pending the completion of the legal process for asylum applications. the report therefore indicated that frontex should address individual complaints of violations of fundamental rights committed in the course of its operations and provide appropriate administrative support to that end through the establishment of an appropriate complaints mechanism, including in the framework of working arrangements with the competent authorities of third countries. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the european ombudsman's inquiry into the frontex agency (responsible for the security of the union's external borders) and is intended to inform about the process of revising the agency's regulation, which the commission will formally present in mid-december. the text is good and the main innovation concerns the institution's request for an internal mechanism within the agency to deal with complaints about violations of fundamental rights by frontex officials against migrants. i voted for it with conviction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. in this report, parliament welcomes the special report of the european ombudsman on the own-initiative inquiry into frontex, supports the ombudsman's recommendation that frontex should deal with individual complaints of fundamental rights violations committed in the course of its operations; considers that the establishment of an individual complaint mechanism could offer individuals an opportunity to exercise their right to an effective remedy in the event of a breach of their fundamental rights and supports the need for an official central structure within frontex for the handling of individual complaints. the ep also recommends that frontex and the european ombudsman establish close cooperation with each other in order to improve the protection of individuals from similar acts of maladministration, and calls on the member states and partner countries to cooperate effectively with the agency to ensure the smooth functioning of the complaints mechanism. finally, it calls on frontex to provide publicly accessible information on the complaint mechanism in its annual general report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the safeguarding of human rights and fundamental freedoms is a key objective of the european union. i am also convinced that frontex, like any other eu institution, body or agency, must respect the charter of fundamental rights in the conduct of its activities, as the members of the teams responsible for carrying out control and surveillance tasks at the external borders are required to comply with community legislation and the national legislation of the host member state. finally, i agree with the rapporteur on the establishment of an individual complaint mechanism, as i believe that it would give people an opportunity to exercise their right to an effective remedy in the event of a violation of their fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on the establishment of an individual complaint mechanism in the event of violations of fundamental rights. this will enable individuals to exercise, either individually or through a third party, their right to an effective remedy, particularly in the case of violations committed against vulnerable persons, pregnant women or children. in addition, as recommended by the european parliament, frontex will have to ensure easy access for all to information on complaint procedures and to actively cooperate with the european ombudsman and each member state in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the mechanism and the protection of individuals in the event of maladministration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the european ombudsman's special report on the own-initiative inquiry into frontex, because i believe it is right and proper that migrants are treated in a humane and dignified manner and can have a mechanism to protect and report violations of fundamental rights. the increasing flow of migrants and the increased presence of the eu border agency frontex raise serious concerns about the respect of human rights. i therefore believe that the european parliament must make its voice heard in the face of the scenes we have seen and continue to see in some member states. i therefore welcome the initiative taken by the european ombudsman and the idea that the same agency should be able to deal with individual complaints of violation of rights, whether they are made by frontex staff or by staff seconded from member states. finally, i share the european parliament's call for the establishment of an internal complaint mechanism within frontex, which can be activated by the victim in the event of a violation of rights, involves the frontex fundamental rights officer and is transparent, accessible, translated into languages understood by migrants and guarantees the protection of the complainant.
in writing. ‒ frontex has faced many challenges in the past year. the worsening of the migration crisis has weighed heavily on the agency and has often called into question its various aspects, from its role to its financial allocation. i voted in favour of this report, which perhaps deals with the most important aspect. the greater the tasks and challenges facing the agency, the greater its responsibility. frontex operates in extremely sensitive contexts, where situations of danger and emergency clash with the fragility of the people being rescued and at the same time the need to carry out effective checks. the ombudsman has asked us to make frontex a fully-fledged agency, to make it accountable for the actions of its agents, and to create a mechanism to guarantee transparency and, above all, the right to complain to anyone who sees that his rights are not being respected. i believe that this is the direction in which frontex should grow, but ensuring that this does not hinder or slow down the other activities of the agency.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this report which supports the european ombudsman's recommendation that frontex deal with complaints about violations of fundamental rights in the course of its operations, provide adequate administrative support for this purpose and establish an independent complaint mechanism. the report was made necessary by the growing phenomenon of migration flows. the appeal mechanism requested is therefore very important in the light of the increased capacity of frontex, in particular as regards participation in the management of migrants in so-called 'hotspot' areas. it is also required that the appeal mechanism be supported by human rights actors. in addition, it is stressed that there should be a system where appeals are first checked and filtered to assess their admissibility, that the criteria for admissibility are clearly defined, and that appeal forms are translated into languages that citizens who make appeals can understand. finally, it is of crucial importance that those officials who have acted in violation of fundamental rights are excluded from any frontex activities.
in writing. ‒ i take this opportunity to express my confidence and esteem in the work and role of the european ombudsman, a body which is fundamental to the realisation of democracy in europe. i also thank my colleagues on the libe committee for their diligence in analysing the ombudsman's report, which they discussed constructively at their meetings this month. i agree with them that it is of paramount importance that there should be a mechanism for reporting to frontex agents (and national agents made available to frontex during its missions) in the event of human rights violations, to ensure fair treatment for all. i urge my colleagues to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the recommendations of the european ombudsman on frontex. i believe that it is necessary to facilitate the submission of complaints by asylum seekers when their fundamental rights are suspected to have been violated. the ombudsman's proposal is fully acceptable: frontex has to deal with complaints about alleged violations of fundamental rights in the course of its operations, the number of which has increased dramatically in recent months. in addition, frontex must establish an independent mechanism for the verification of these complaints, set clear criteria for their admissibility and take appropriate measures against officials guilty of violations.
in writing. ‒ environmental protection has always been a key issue and objective of european policies, which is why the modification of urban mobility models is more necessary and indispensable than ever, given the current climatic conditions and the urgency of action in this regard. the high percentage of gas emissions, the damage to the health of citizens and the problems associated with road congestion are just a few examples of the catastrophic effects of excessive use of private cars powered by traditional fuels. new forms of environmentally sustainable transport, incentives for public transport, and the adoption of electric mobility projects could certainly reduce the incidence of the above problems, improving the well-being of society and the citizen. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ while there are some shared positions, i find that some of the proposed solutions are unbalanced and may become a source of problems and criticism in the near future. for these reasons i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken in favour of this report on sustainable urban mobility, a document that combines a holistic approach with real and concrete objectives. urban mobility is a topic of growing importance in europe, where 80% of the population live in urban centres. the report has the advantage of focusing in a comprehensive way on the different aspects of this subject, including the sustainability of urban transport planning, the improvement of the quality of life of citizens, innovation and development. it is important to provide adequate support to urban centres that are committed to providing safe services, whose emission efficiency contributes to the union's co2 reduction target, while paying due attention to improving the quality of life of citizens, both in terms of service availability and health protection. it is good to note that mobility and sustainable urban planning represent a particularly favourable environment for the development of new investment and growth opportunities.
in writing. - i vote against it. here's why. "we are facing a climate emergency" false. co2 emissions are deliberately used to pollute the debate and policies on polluting emissions in the transport sector. "we are facing an emergency for the lives of road users!" true, 38% of road deaths occur in urban areas. but that's no reason to ban vehicles from the road. 'another kind of mobility is possible' some proposed recipes: elimination of diesel cars in urban centres by 2020 and petrol cars by 2050; total electrification of transport means (translated: more expensive and inefficient means; owning one will again be a luxury of the high aristocracy); planning for a sharing economy (see voting list in § 20); 'eu footpaths'; general speed limit of 30 km/h; binding targets for the use of bicycles and public transport; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the public transport services. 'green' tolls; to generalise green urban logistics, in particular by combining it with the increasing use of cargo bicycles, cargo barges, electric vans, freight trams and buses; a planning role for the commission in the urban mobility plans drawn up by local authorities.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the house, i voted in favour of the report on sustainable urban mobility, as i am convinced that an ambitious regulatory framework for sustainable urban mobility is urgently needed, because the global needs are ambitious in terms of quality of life, health and climate protection. i must point out, however, that while the european union may once again be the protagonist at cop21 in paris of the necessary political commitment on the subject, there is evidence on many sides of the systematic manipulation of legislation by european manufacturers and the ability of the automobile industry to delay the union's climate and energy objectives and to improve energy efficiency. i therefore agree with the report, considering as a priority the attention it pays to energy saving and climate protection, the need to give back space and infrastructure to all citizens and to improve accessibility, and to respect technological neutrality.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to define a new model of urban mobility based on environmental, economic and social sustainability. at present, the use of private cars running on traditional fuels is still predominant in urban mobility and urban transport is responsible for a quarter of greenhouse gas emissions. the text therefore stresses the importance of giving priority to clean transport modes such as trams, cable cars, bicycles, car sharing/pooling by encouraging the adoption of plans for electric mobility and promoting intermodality combining walking and public transport. it also calls for energy efficiency to be placed at the heart of urban mobility policies in conjunction with cop21 and for a legislative package on 'transport and climate' to be drawn up alongside it. my vote was certainly in favour.
in writing. ‒ sustainable mobility is becoming a major environmental policy issue because of its impact on air quality and the inevitable health impacts on citizens. making our cities more liveable has been a challenge facing europe for some time now and presents considerable difficulties in reconciling the economic development of cities and the accessibility of their territory with the quality of life and environmental protection. the european legislation has been different. but above all, initiatives such as the covenant of mayors or civitas 2020 or programmes dedicated to the subject, such as urban or urbact, should be remembered in order to try to find solutions and define models that can design future mobility policies. transport and climate are now inseparable, and i hope that the work of the cop 21, which is taking place in paris these days, will also address the issue of urban mobility, which is one of the major challenges of the coming years. i voted in favour of the report because it identifies all the problems connected with the subject and offers the european commission important ideas for the development of future actions.
in writing. - i chose to support the measure. the report aims to reorient urban mobility towards sustainable modes of transport, with the aim of meeting the challenges of our century: the protection of the climate, health and the environment. mobility is not an end in itself, but must be a right for all citizens. the costs of car dependence are estimated at eur 80 billion for all european cities. on the eve of cop21, the european union, as well as member states and local authorities, must put energy efficiency at the heart of urban mobility policies. the report also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's transport policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. the rapporteur also calls on the european commission to make the granting of urban mobility funding conditional on the implementation by local authorities of sustainable urban mobility plans. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of projects in the area of sustainable urban mobility by 20% of eu funding.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because the possibility of sustainable urban mobility is a subject to which i am particularly attached. it is not a goal in itself, but a right for all citizens, but it is often perceived as a burden, the cause of which is the excessive use of private cars powered by traditional fuels, which reduce the possibility of environmentally friendly transport. i support the report because it aims to reorient urban mobility towards sustainable modes of transport, with the aim of meeting the objectives of our century that i want to help achieve: the protection of the climate, health and the environment. i feel called upon to contribute to the achievement of the objectives just listed, considering that we are facing a climate emergency; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to combat climate change, including the introduction of a new road safety directive, and the introduction of a new road safety directive. it is therefore necessary, through new development practices, to ensure that the mobility of today and tomorrow can be based primarily on eco-mobility.
in writing. ‒ urban mobility is a priority for citizens today, as we all have to move around for various reasons on a daily basis and unfortunately the vehicle we use most often is the car, which offers the advantage of convenience but has a significant impact on the environment. because of the excessive use of the automobile, we are facing a climate emergency. since 1990, there has been a 30% increase in greenhouse gas emissions, which are highly harmful not only to the climate but also to human health. in addition, in road safety, 38% of deaths from accidents occur in urban areas. i strongly believe that funding should be provided to local authorities to facilitate and encourage the implementation of sustainable local mobility plans, both in terms of people and goods. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which aims to reorient urban mobility towards sustainable modes of transport, with the aim of meeting the challenges of our century: the protection of the climate, health and the environment, and the well-being and safety of all.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mrs delli's report on sustainable urban mobility because i believe it is one of the greatest social and environmental challenges of our time. the increase in the urban population raises a number of challenges not only to the quality of life but also to the sustainable development of the territory, and it is therefore necessary to provide for responsible and effective urban planning in good time. at the opening of cop21, the heads of state and government of most countries of the world reiterated the importance of taking action to save our planet from environmental catastrophes. in this context, cities can also play a leading role, calling for greater responsibility on the part of citizens and local administrators in reviewing territorial environmental policies aimed at reducing pollution, promoting alternative fuels and developing an environmentally friendly culture. it is therefore essential to rethink the models of territorial development, starting first of all with sustainable public transport, which on the one hand reduces smog, noise pollution and road accidents and, on the other, undoubtedly improves the quality of life of citizens, especially those living in the most disadvantaged areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because congestion in our cities has a profound impact on the quality of life of our citizens. the extension of travel times, the quality of the air, the rate of accidents are some of the negative effects of a short-sighted mobility policy which focuses exclusively on transport by private cars. cohesion policy plays a key role in shaping the mobility choices of local authorities. the naps and the rops must respond to the need for efficient and sustainable urban mobility. in terms of smart cities, mobility is one of the sectors that promises radical change. the alternatives are different, the key words must be public services and sharing.
in writing. this report aims to reorient urban mobility towards sustainable modes of transport in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. i can of course agree with that objective. we are on the eve of cop21 and it is imperative that we send a strong signal that europe is doing and will do everything possible to promote the well-being and security of its citizens. we need to change our habits now more than ever, and the gradual design of greener modes of transport is another step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ given that 75% of europeans live in urban centres and that this is increasing, i welcome the proposal to improve the quality of urban life. optimising urban transport networks, with a particular focus on sustainable mobility, would have a positive impact on the social and environmental issues affecting european centres. the accessibility of transport, especially for the most vulnerable groups such as the disabled, the elderly and low-income families, is a key means of social inclusion. in fact, urban centres, which account for 80% of european gdp, are all too often characterised by high levels of inequality and lack of social integration. the weakest social groups are also the most exposed to the risks of air pollution, which kills more than 400,000 people a year. urban mobility, characterised by a preponderance of diesel vehicles and burdened by a massive use of private cars, is responsible for 25% of total emissions and 70% of those emitted in cities. the report is therefore consistent with the position taken by the european union in the international arena and, in particular, reinforces its role at the paris conference. i also strongly support the call to the european commission to take note of and catalyse the reality of collaborative consumption.
in writing. ‒ mr delli's report proposes that the commission start drawing up a legislative package on 'transport and climate' as soon as possible, involving all stakeholders, in order to set binding targets for reducing gas emissions in the transport sector. some of the targets in the text are to ban diesel by 2020, phase out petrol cars by 2030 and phase them out by 2050. i believe that the european union must set itself ambitious targets so that member states and regional and local authorities can jointly commit to reducing pollution and implementing a new model of sustainable urban mobility. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that today, just a few days after the start of cop21, we have the opportunity to discuss and vote on this document in the house: greater sustainability in urban mobility not only improves many aspects of our citizens' daily lives, but also allows us to focus our efforts on a healthier, less polluting environment that contributes to the climate goals that the world's great leaders have set for themselves, and that we ourselves hope will be realized. i am glad to be able to contribute my vote to an issue which is very close to my heart, and i would vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on sustainable urban mobility and i congratulate mr virkkunen, the shadow rapporteur for the epp group, on the work he has done. they agree to increase the efficiency of sustainable mobility and to strengthen the transport logistics network in urban areas. member states and local authorities must work to implement sustainable urban mobility plans and ensure that european citizens have access to accessible, efficient and safe public transport.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on sustainable urban mobility because it is a priority for the socialist and democratic group. it is a key element in promoting better economic and social conditions in cities, especially for the most disadvantaged sections of the population, without forgetting the positive effects that good management of urban mobility can have on the fight against climate change. i would also like to stress one point that is particularly close to my heart: the text we have approved explicitly talks about new forms of mobility based on the sharing economy model, recognising the role of peer-to-peer mobility solutions as a benefit for citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which aims to redefine a new model of urban mobility based on environmental, economic and social sustainability. urban transport is responsible for a quarter of greenhouse gas emissions, which have increased by 30% in the last 25 years. the result is serious damage in terms of air pollution and damage to health, traffic congestion and safety for citizens. this report therefore proposes to give priority to new forms of clean transport such as trams, cable cars, bicycles, car sharing/pooling, encouraging the adoption of plans for electric mobility and promoting intermodality combining walking and public transport. it also calls for energy efficiency to be placed at the heart of urban mobility policies and for a legislative package on 'transport and climate'.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that a gradual phase-out of fossil fuels is the only way to redefine a new model of urban mobility in order to improve environmental impact. motor transport in cities is responsible for a quarter of greenhouse gas emissions, with a progressive increase of 30% over the last 25 years. the total cost of traffic congestion is estimated at €80 billion for european cities alone, not counting the serious damage in terms of air pollution and health for citizens. the document adopted incorporated the proposals of the m5s, such as reducing pollution through alternative methods such as teleworking or the use of green public transport, in order to optimise journeys to the workplace and travel in general. i have always believed in the need to promote new forms of clean transport such as trams, cable cars, bicycles, car sharing/pooling, by encouraging the adoption of plans for electric mobility and by making public transport available, many of which could benefit from free fares.
the explanations of vote are closed.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking the rapporteurs - mr eriksson, mr gróbarczyk and mr tošenovský - and all the members involved in these two draft reports. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union's objectives and to monitor the implementation of the energy union's objectives and targets. the commission fully agrees with these three elements, as already illustrated by the report on the state of the energy union adopted by the college a month ago and presented to this house by vice-president šefčovič, who has been encouraging and coordinating our action on this important priority for the european union. i would like to focus my speech on these three issues. first, the need to maintain the ambition levels of the energy union. i have just returned from paris, where for the past two weeks the european union, with its allies, has led the negotiations to reach the most ambitious climate agreement in history. but the execution of that agreement starts today. that means we have to meet our target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40% from 1990 levels; we have to achieve a renewable energy share of 27% and improve energy efficiency by 27% by 2030 with a view to 30%. as far as renewable energy is concerned, we already have a 15% share in the european union, but we need to step up our efforts to make the 2030 target a reality. and so we will have to tackle the review of the renewable energy directive scheduled for the second half of 2016. as regards energy efficiency, let me reiterate that the commission is already looking at how we could raise the target to 30%, as this draft report calls for. the energy efficiency directive is also the worst implemented. we will therefore have to ensure that it is complied with in all the member states. but we also need to raise our ambition level. that is why, next year, i will be presenting a set of proposals related to energy efficiency in sectors such as heating and cooling, buildings and transport and industrial emissions. furthermore, i believe that a transition to a low-carbon economy must be driven by innovation and the european strategic energy technology plan will be key. the second issue i want to talk about today is the need to measure our progress, which is linked to the eriksson report on the 10% electricity interconnection target by 2020. today, only 20 member states meet these targets and for some, such as the iberian peninsula, the baltic states or cyprus, electricity interconnection is clearly insufficient. and, moreover, the lack of interconnection is an impediment to ensuring the integration of renewable energies into our energy matrix and to achieving greater shares of competitiveness. we will start 2015 with the inauguration of a new electricity interconnection across the pyrenees, and today we have inaugurated the new electricity interconnections between lithuania and poland, and between lithuania and sweden. both 'litpollink' and 'nordbalt' will be key to ending the energy isolation of the baltic states. and we have just adopted a second list of projects of common interest containing the most important interconnection priorities for the european union: 108 electricity projects that will enable 26 member states to reach the 10% interconnection target by 2020. but, returning to the draft report we are discussing today, i am particularly pleased with the ambition it shows in including the longer-term target of 15% by 2030. i announce that i will propose the creation of an expert group on energy infrastructure to monitor progress towards the 10% target and make proposals if the target is not reached, as well as advise the commission on how to reach the 15% target. one of the central pillars of next year's legislative proposals will be the design of the electricity market to achieve greater market integration. strengthening the role of acer and promoting closer regional cooperation, as the draft report indicates, will be key features of the market design proposals, and that will be of key importance for energy security. as the draft gróbarczyk report points out, we have made important progress in diversifying gas supply sources and routes. the next package on security of supply, which includes a review of the regulation on security of gas supply and a proposal to revise the decision on intergovernmental agreements, will help us to go further. and that's important because many countries are overly dependent on russian gas imports. and on that issue, let me respond to the concerns about nord stream 2 raised in the draft report. first of all, it is clear that this project, like any other, will have to comply fully with european union law. secondly, i would stress that the commission will only support projects which are in line with the objectives of the energy union, including energy security. and in this context, diversification of supply sources, routes and suppliers is key. finally, i would like to make it clear that the european union still considers ukraine to be a safe and necessary transit country. i will make sure that parliament is informed of any developments. and it is in this spirit that i come to my final point: the need for accountability. the state of the energy union made it clear that the energy union can only work if it is based on a reliable and transparent process anchored in legislation. over the next few years, we will be proposing a series of legislative proposals on the five dimensions. and here parliament, as a co-legislator, will have a decisive role. of course, alongside this we need a robust governance process, as underlined in the draft report on the energy union. as many of you have pointed out, this process would be meaningless if it became a mere bureaucratic process. that is why next year we will propose an initiative on simplifying planning and reporting so that, after 2020, member states develop an integrated national energy and climate plan; that the monitoring system is based on a report on progress made by member states; and that the commission assesses collective progress in an annual comprehensive state of the european union. in this context, the powers of this parliament will be fully respected. i would like to conclude by saying that the commission welcomes these two draft reports very much. we will ensure that the energy union remains an ambitious, responsible and measurable project. don't expect hard work. the next year will be decisive because of the large number of concrete initiatives included in the legislative programme for 2016. i will work with this parliament to make the energy union a reality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are finally here. this parliament has its say on the energy union, the most ambitious strategy for the integration of europe's energy markets since that first bold and in some ways visionary draft: the european coal and steel community. well, more than 60 years later, the context and the world have changed a lot, but the theme remains the same: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy policy and the energy efficiency of the member states, in particular by ensuring that the energy security of the member states is a factor of stability, competitiveness and growth in their territories, with an additional challenge, the crucial challenge of climate change and sustainable development. so it is in this spirit that we are voting, after weeks and months of negotiations, on the basis of a solid text to which almost all the groups have contributed and which puts this house back at the centre of the debate on the future of the energy union. these are the two points which i think are most important: the second point is the call for strong governance, with full ownership of parliament within the ordinary legislative procedure and for the indispensable objectives which we socialists and democrats, together with others, want to be even more ambitious in terms of efficiency so that the energy transition is bold and socially sustainable. so parliament is back on the field, ready to make its voice heard in the busy process of building the energy union, with the commitment shown in recent months by the commission in bringing the energy union through step by step and the obstinacy of this house in seeking broad consensus on the basic objectives, as conditions for important achievements, towards a single, harmonious and fair european energy area. all this is finally there, it is up to us of course to continue the work.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are certainly many points of agreement in this report, but while europe is still debating non-binding and unambitious targets, morocco, according to the financial times, is already close to reaching 42% of renewable energy in 2020, more than twice the european union's target, and has set itself the target of 50% by 2030. the union should also take lessons from uruguay, which already reached 94% renewables in 2015 with a legislative framework that gave certainty to investors. the report we are voting on tomorrow contains a particularly scandalous sentence: 'nuclear energy should be supported in any form by eu funding mechanisms or eu financial institutions'. a good pay really. in britain, the hinkley point nuclear power station will perhaps be built only because the government will pay for 27 years for energy at twice the market price. we believe that nuclear choices cannot be left to the discretion of the member states, because they put the security of the citizens of the neighbouring countries and of the whole of the european continent at risk. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue-card question. i believe that electrical interconnections between countries, even with the latest technologies, should be encouraged. as far as hydroelectric power is concerned, we are now, in many parts of europe, saturated with what is sustainable in terms of the protection of the natural environment. we must remember that hydroelectric power can still have problems as a result of climate change, which in any case puts the supply of hydroelectric basins at risk. however, we must also take account of this variable, which will become more and more serious in the years to come.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is absolutely necessary to create a sustainable energy environment, not only to ensure energy security, naturally by trying to reduce prices, but above all to achieve the climate objectives, such as, for example, respecting the global average temperature increase of less than two degrees, agreed at the paris summit. energy security also means diversifying supply, thus reducing dependence on fossil fuels such as oil, gas and coal, and focusing on renewable energy. we must work to make the energy union a real engine of growth and investment, especially in green energy, jobs and competitiveness, investing, as i said before, also in renewable technologies, clean transport, smart homes and new production methods; the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. so to actually achieve a green economy, an economy that is in all respects sustainable, with positive repercussions not only on energy savings, and therefore from an economic point of view, but also on the reduction of the greenhouse effect. it will therefore also be necessary to review the energy label, because we must give consumers a clear and precise idea of what the information and savings for the citizens will actually be.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is coming out of the historic agreement reached at the paris conference on climate change strengthened. in addition to laying the foundations for saving the planet, it is a strength of the european union as a whole and a sure path towards a robust and stable european energy union, which is therefore the real institutional and political challenge. it is well known that the current existence of economic, regulatory and administrative barriers to energy consumption does not protect but rather exacerbates energy poverty. i therefore agree with the report and emphasize the key role of the issues of emissions trading, the necessary introduction of real driving emissions testing, the decarbonisation of the air, sea and land transport sector which is still excluded from binding commitments, the reintroduction of waste into the economy as a raw material for a true circular economy and the achievement of the 10% electricity interconnection target and the improvement of the functioning of the internal electricity market in the european union. all of these are key to achieving a secure, independent, inclusive, transparent and competitive energy union.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs cecilia wikström, for her work and all the other shadow rapporteurs. trade marks are of the utmost importance for the european production system and this is even more true for certain national subsystems, such as the italian one in which 'made in' is synonymous with indication of origin, quality, guarantee of the marked products and services. the reform of the eu trade mark regime is now reaching its final stage, not without difficulties and not without criticism. among these, we note the failure to introduce an explicit 'fair use' clause which would have allowed a broader interpretation of the limitations of the exclusive right, whenever it is necessary to reconcile the latter with the freedom of artistic expression. however, we found it desirable to include a special recital to guarantee respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, in particular freedom of expression. the guarantee introduced for the free movement of generic medicines is also very welcome, without neglecting the need to combat the trafficking of counterfeit medicines and cosmetics, which are often very dangerous for the health of citizens.
the recent terrorist attacks have brought to the attention of the public a need that is not new but one that is particularly important and urgent today. our attention must not only be directed to the perpetrators or potential perpetrators of the attacks in order to ensure an effective repressive and preventive response, but also to the victims, whether direct or indirect. the need to improve legislation and support measures for the protection of victims of crime, including, as a matter of priority, victims of terrorism, which naturally includes the family members of direct victims, was recognised in the 2009 stockholm programme. the directive 2012/29/eu on victims of crime also recognises that victims of terrorism, as they suffer the consequences of crimes against society as a whole, need special attention and that, now more than ever, victims of terrorism need to be able to rely on national and international solidarity and support. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up in the next few months. free medical, psychological, social and material assistance must be provided immediately. long-term assistance is needed, both for those who have suffered physical or psychological damage directly as a result of terrorist acts and, where necessary, for their families. effective access to justice, including the possibility of legal assistance and adequate compensation and compensation for damage suffered, is needed and it is also important to recognise and support the role of victim protection associations.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a number of very serious problems. the commission is actually playing by the rules, that is true. the problem is that measures that are exceptional are becoming commonplace. the democratic deficit in the procedures is becoming more and more evident, and juncker himself, it was said, promised to solve this problem when he was elected president of the european commission. the proposal we have received is a false proposal, a proposal which was not up to par and which parliament has therefore rightly rejected. but we are faced with another issue, the question of the uncertainty of scientific assessments. it all seems interpretation in this extreme interpretation of rules and scientific data. i believe that the european citizens can only be confused and increasingly alienated from these institutions. we have also mentioned it and glyphosate is linked in a double way with the authorization of this maize, except that both products are products which, when used in combination, have a commercial application and so it is another fact to be taken into account that glyphosate itself is evaluated by a european and an international agency in a completely different way. so i close, i'm very fast. we have to show that we are applying the precautionary principle in a way that really protects the health of citizens and the environment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by expressing my support for the report and its implementation, especially as we are faced with the task of broadening the horizon of progress, because there is no doubt that the social enterprise system creates welfare and jobs within a framework which favours particularly vulnerable workers, but it is also able to give value to the entrepreneurial capacity, especially of women and young people. the microfinance instrument must therefore be strengthened, also by simplifying it with an information and mentoring strategy capable of broadening the audience, but also of assessing its sustainability and employability. the social economy is undoubtedly a tremendous lever for new and good jobs today, and it is able to meet the challenges of the market. microfinance can give space and visibility to the social enterprise system for a welfare that we want to be increasingly generative.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the financial crisis has shown how important it is to have financial instruments like progress in order to create new businesses and promote employment and ensure that the unemployed, the disadvantaged and micro-enterprises have access to credit. microcredit is also a social policy instrument, designed to offer a chance to those in a difficult social situation. however, the spread of progress remains limited in the european union. the commission and the member states should establish contact points to promote awareness of this instrument among potential beneficiaries and citizens in general and to raise awareness of the existence of the instrument and the benefits it offers and how to access it, especially in peripheral regions. progress should take greater account of the added value that projects can bring to regions with severe and permanent natural or demographic handicaps, such as the regions of southern italy from which i come, where job creation, particularly for young people, is a priority that must be addressed.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the text in question refers to an agreement between the european police office europol and the united arab emirates on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism. in view of the particularity of the present situation, we must support all efforts to prevent and combat criminal acts which threaten the personal and economic well-being of our citizens, and it is of the utmost importance to create the conditions for the perpetrators of these crimes to be brought to justice. the agreement under discussion today, which the council has informally approved pending consultation of the european parliament, will formally establish cooperation between the european union and the united arab emirates in the field of security and the fight against organised crime through the exchange of information on crime prevention methods, expertise and the results of strategic analysis. this agreement is strategic and not operational, so it excludes any implications for personal data and, as europol has repeatedly pointed out, the uae is becoming a hotbed for economic and financial crime. it is well known that they are considered a destination country for proceeds of illicit activities, such as vat fraud against european states, and money laundering. it is clear that more structured cooperation would strengthen europol's coordinating role with a view to concretely resolving investigations whose outcome involves two or more european states. cross-border criminal networks can only be effectively tackled through synergistic cooperation at international level. in the light of the above and taking into account the time limits for the european parliament to participate in the procedure provided for in this specific case, i have tabled a report supporting the council's decision to authorise the agreement negotiated between europol and the united arab emirates on the fight against crime and terrorism.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, cop21 has come to an end and the big missing from the debate is agriculture, food and the link with climate policies. the link between industrial agriculture and climate change is two-fold. on the one hand, industrial food production is massive, it relies on fossil fuels for its existence; on the other hand, monocultures on 80 percent of the total arable land are poorly adapted to climate change, putting the entire food supply at risk. we no longer have time for general speeches or small steps. if we are to tackle the urgent problem of climate change, the european union must also abandon the concept of technological neutrality and take decisive action to promote those production, distribution and consumption models that can reverse the trend, by adopting agroecological practices. problem agriculture could become part of the solution to climate change with the potential to absorb 40 percent of current emissions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the health system in campania is in a critical condition. campania is the last italian region to have the essential levels of assistance. last on waiting lists, last on quality of care with the shame of the spending ceilings that until last year left thousands of citizens without care for four months every year. the rationing of spending from 2007 to 2014 has resulted in widespread precariousness in public health in campania, the lack of beds in hospitals, the clustering of care centers and the closure of territorial services. the creation of a reliable and modern prevention system, innovative, efficient and respectful health care for the suffering, facilitated and guaranteed access to care under uniform conditions is needed. the italian government appointed a new commissioner for health in campania three days ago. the new commissioner hopes that the eu will make more effective use of the community instruments available, such as the third european union health programme, which supplements, supports and adds value to italian health policy.
president of the eurogroup.– mr president, thank you for inviting me to this plenary session of parliament. it is the first time i have had the honour to be here. i find it quite intimidating. you, of course, are very much used to this arena, but to me it is still a new experience. it is a sincere pleasure for me to take part in today’s exchange of views on the euro area recommendation. i am sure president juncker will explain the commission’s proposal of 26 november. he is best placed for this, so i will not go into the details. as the eurogroup president, i support a timely discussion of the euro area recommendation which gives a more prominent role to the euro area dimension in the context of a revamped european semester. this fits into a necessary push towards a closer coordination of member states’ economic policies. one lesson learned from the crisis is that member states that are sharing a single currency need to be particularly mindful of the possible spillovers, both positive and negative, of their domestic policies. in that sense, i believe, broadly speaking, that the commission’s draft recommendation raises the right issues. the gradual economic recovery is ongoing and is relatively broadly based across member states. this shows that the work we have done together over the last couple of years is starting to pay off and bolster confidence. however, since we will not be able to count on several supportive factors, such as low oil prices and a very accommodative monetary policy, forever, we need to ensure that the recovery becomes self-sustained, in particular given the weaker external environment. therefore it is essential that policy agendas remain focused on investment, structural reforms and, obviously, sustainable and growth-friendly fiscal policies. this is needed to improve competitiveness, in particular by unlocking the euro area’s productive capacity, and thereby fostering higher sustainable and inclusive growth. it is the surest way to address the still unacceptably high unemployment rates and legacy debt in many countries. it is crucial if we want a thriving euro area in a globalised world, and it is also the only way to preserve our european social model. although the euro area recommendation and the country-specific recommendations by and large address the right issues, effective economic policy coordination requires attention for implementation at member state level. going forward, it will be important to regularly monitor the progress made in implementing the recommendations and enhancing national ownership. this is why the issues i have just mentioned have figured and will continue to figure prominently in the eurogroup’s work programme, notably in the context of our thematic discussions on growth and jobs. these discussions are a follow-up to the euro area recommendation, working on best practices and benchmarking, for example on the tax wedge on labour, or pension reforms. and this brings me to the so-called five presidents’ report on completing europe’s economic and monetary union, which the president of the european parliament and i co-authored, together with presidents juncker, tusk and draghi. the report pointed out that despite significant improvements in recent years, more work is needed to make the emu more resilient and its institutional architecture more complete in order to maximise the benefits of participating in the single currency to its members. we aimed to strike the right balance between realism and vision, which is reflected in a stage-based approach. until mid-2017 it proposes short-term measures to make the euro area more resilient, while making the best possible use of the current legal framework. these are intended to pave the way for more far-reaching measures for completing the emu in the second stage. pursuing convergence is a key theme in the report. over the last years, member states have made significant steps, but the smooth functioning of a monetary union requires further efforts to reduce divergence in economic and fiscal performance, financial market fragmentation, as well as differences in national institutional architecture. all these aspects are interlinked, and simultaneous progress is needed. it is indisputable in my mind that participation in a monetary union comes with the sharing of sovereignty. the key question is, however, how much sovereignty should be shared under which conditions. in other words, we need to be clear on what we want to achieve, and then determine how to go about it. the process of deepening the emu is indeed also about risk sharing, but in order to make progress on this front, member states need to make progress in further reducing risks. this entails repairing economic and fiscal imbalances through a consistent and faithful application of instruments like the stability and growth pact and the macroeconomic imbalance procedure. between risk reduction and risk sharing, we need to work on our economic risk absorption capacity. it will not surprise you that i am convinced that private risk sharing is as important as public risk sharing. the experience in the us has shown that integrated financial markets account for the largest part of the absorption of asymmetric economic shocks. developing the capital markets union, therefore, should be a priority. similarly, we need a comprehensive approach to completing the banking union in order to decisively break the vicious sovereign banking nexus. the key element in building the banking union was the paradigm shift from bail-out to bail-in. this is a fundamental shift in our approach, where risks will be pushed back to where they belong. but more needs to be done to strengthen the resilience of our banking system. for example, dealing with over 150 national options and discretions left to date, reducing sovereign risks, and applying the bail-in rules in full to ensure a level playing field. this is as important as decisive progress towards a european deposit insurance scheme or a credible backstop to the single resolution fund. the three will have to be brought forward together. it is essential that we join efforts to build dynamic, flexible and upward converging economies that are supported by a well-integrated financial market with private risk sharing and by sound public finances with fiscal buffers for difficult times. my plea for further integration at euro area level should go hand in hand with greater accountability, legitimacy and institutional strengthening. this affects national and european policy makers, as well as national parliaments and the european parliament. as far as the european parliament is concerned, i believe it should be able to fully exploit its prerogatives under the current treaties and secondary legislation when it comes to the european semester. the preparatory work for moving to the second stage of completing the emu should include a debate on the role and competences of the different institutional actors in a deep and genuine monetary union. the measures outlined in the five presidents’ report and the recent commission initiatives to operationalise them are given careful consideration in different fora. i will assume my responsibility and facilitate the non-legislative and legislative procedures, both from the perspective of the eurogroup presidency and of the next presidency of the ecofin council.
president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is an important debate, as the president has rightly said, and the massive presence in this chamber is proof enough of that. (applause from the centre) i have always said that the european parliament is the parliament of the euro, and i say it again today. the euro is a political project, and that means that it requires political supervision and democratic accountability. you are the parliament of the european union, but you are also the parliament of the euro. this is why i wanted president schulz to contribute to our roadmap for economic and monetary union the five presidents report, which we presented last june and to which jeroen was referring. our report makes it clear that the legitimacy of the euro is paramount, at least as important as its economic significance and its stability on the financial markets. in the years to come, as we will need to develop and strengthen the common institutions that the single currency demands, that legitimacy will acquire only greater importance. this has nothing to do with institutional power grabs or federal dreams. this has to do with the pressing reality of the european union, where so many people are still unemployed, and where our economic recovery is still fragile. from my perspective, the crisis is not over and there should be no complacency. even if we are helped by the action of the european central bank, we only have a short window of opportunity to press ahead with our agenda for reforms, investment and responsible public finances, with social fairness at its core. the crisis has also been a crisis of legitimacy at all levels. economic governance is not about legal rules or numerical percentages: it's about people and it's about the political decisions that affect them. it is about political responsibility and political accountability. the five presidents' report makes clear that parliament should play a central role, starting with its power to legislate, but also its power to hold accountable. the commission is the natural ally of this house in making sure that this is the case, even more so in the future. we are not starting from a blank sheet. today parliament is playing a new and growing role in the economic governance of the eu and the euro area, and that is how it should be. the european semester of economic policy coordination is more transparent and more accountable now that parliament is more involved. when parliament organises its economic dialogues with member states and with the commission, the president of the eurogroup - who is here and i greet him with the deepest respect - and the president of the ecb, it helps shape the agenda and delivers parliamentary oversight, and that is vital for our democracy. vice-president dombrovskis, sitting beside me today, was once a member of this parliament. as you know, he was a prime minister of his country, where he pursued a successful programme of national reform. if there's one person here who understands why the euro demands democratic legitimacy, it's him. this is why i entrusted him with this particular job. and for the conduct of the european semester, he is working closely with marianne thyssen and pierre moscovici, who are also two former members of this house. this year, vice-president dombrovskis came to debate with you during the preparation of the annual growth survey. i remember that this was a request both from the president of this house and from some party and group leaders, like philippe. he put this forward years ago, but he had to wait until this commission to have the chance to participate in these kinds of debates. but it was the first time that the commission had discussed and debated the annual growth survey with parliament before the adoption of that important document. together with commissioner moscovici, valdis dombrovskis came to debate and report on the greek programme to you. again last week, the two of them together with commissioner thyssen attended a joint meeting of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) and the committee on employment and social affairs (empl) to present the priorities we see for 2016. when you invite us, we come. and by doing so, we keep improving the way our economic and fiscal surveillance works making it more predictable and more transparent, giving more time for discussions and debates, and creating more opportunities for engagement at all levels. for countries that are experiencing financial instability, i also believe that monitoring is now stronger with this parliament's participation. it is this parliament that can host an open political debate on a country's adjustment programme. before i took office last year, i made it clear that i recognised the shortcomings of the so-called 'troika'. i was determined to do things differently, and under this commission, we have done and are doing precisely that. we have therefore made a new start in that respect together with the president of the eurogroup. today, if a country needs to pursue an adjustment programme, we want to see more transparency and more accountability. the commission is, for example, conducting social impact assessments so that we can, from the outset, design measures to support the most vulnerable and ensure a fair adjustment. we want to report to this house on progress with the programme. we are implementing these new methods in the new programme with greece, which for the first time is being done under the european stability mechanism our european financial firewall. this is the first programme for which a full social impact assessment was published, as promised, and presented to the committees of this parliament. i know that for some of you all these various innovations don't go far enough, and some of you wanted to re-open and revise the six-pack and the two-pack legislation before the ink was dry. however, if the five presidents adopted the approach you find in our report, it is because we were convinced - and i know the large majority of you are equally convinced - that our first task is to implement what was agreed by parliament and the council and to focus on what we have just put in place. rather than create new uncertainty, let's fully use our newly agreed tools and make them work to the best effect. we know that the provisions of the six-pack and two-pack legislation, which have been in force for just a few years, are both far-reaching and useful in terms of parliament's involvement. all this is part of our pragmatic, yet ambitious, approach to completing europe's economic and monetary union. as we promised in the five presidents report, we have already launched stage 1 of the roadmap, which is expected to last until mid-2017. we are 'deepening by doing', which means that we are using existing powers and tools to work towards economic union, financial union, banking union and political union. it is pragmatic, but it is ambitious. it is at this stage that we, the five presidents, have said that we will make use of all possibilities, including legislative ones, within the existing treaties. this is why i associated your president with this report. we need this parliament as our strong partner during this phase. one concrete example is the recommendation for the economic policy of the euro area which we issued for the first time in november, as promised, at the start of the new european semester. this is something i had committed to in my state of the union speech: to create scope and time for an in-depth debate, including in this house, of the priorities for the euro area as a whole, before discussing priorities for individual member states later in the spring. we are already coming forward with legislation wherever this is needed, for example to complete our banking union or deepen our capital market union. just think of our proposal for a european deposit insurance scheme. what could be more urgent than protecting the savings of our citizens and reinforcing their trust in the banking system? it is not for the commission to say how parliament wishes to organise itself, but let me share today a few thoughts on how we might deepen the cooperation between our institutions under stage 1, now, as we are moving towards stage 2, which we plan to initiate in spring 2017 on the basis of a white paper. firstly, it is good practice for the commission to seek the views of the european parliament before we adopt our annual growth survey, as we did this year. i would also hope that the priorities for the next european semester could be discussed in as many committees as possible. secondly, the commission is fully committed to making the european parliamentary week which is organised under your guidance, mr president a key moment in our economic governance, and to bringing national parliaments into the process. in our view, these exchanges would best take place at the start of each year in order to shape the european union and euro area priorities ahead of national discussions on our member states' programmes. thirdly, when a member state is pursuing an adjustment programme, we should make full use of the practice of the commission reporting to parliament after each review of the programme's implementation. i know there are further reflections ongoing within this house as to how this could best be done, and i will be happy to consider these in due course. these arrangements should be part of a new practice between our two institutions, based on reinforced political dialogue. our two institutions have a common interest to succeed for our citizens. i believe that everything that strengthens parliament also strengthens the commission. and i believe parliament should be vigilant to preserve the role of the commission in all these discussions. as you know, there are some who want to weaken the role of the commission in the management of our common economic and fiscal rules. some even call for transferring the tasks we have under the treaty to an agency of technocrats. i am sure i can count on this parliament to agree with me that decisions on budgetary priorities, the balance between revenue and expenditure, the level of taxation, the performance of public administrations and social systems are all political decisions which require a political commission which can account for its role and action before this parliament. as foreseen in the five presidents' report, i believe that we should test and improve these new practices which we are now developing in order to progressively agree upon a broader interinstitutional agreement among our institutions in full respect of their distinctive roles. the practical and institutional steps that we are discussing today are all necessary to complete our economic and monetary union. they are a means to an end: jobs and growth, fairness and democratic change. this is what we have been focusing our minds and energy on and what we should remain focused on. the ideas i presented to you this morning are faithful to the political guidelines i presented for this commission, as well as to the five presidents' report i co-authored with the president of this house. i put them to you in a spirit of good will and with an open mind. i hope they will produce an honest and useful debate. (applause) i would like to thank
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president of the commission, president of the eurogroup, this is a very important debate, as is the presentation by the commission of a proposal for a recommendation on the economic policy of the euro area, which constitutes a major innovation in the process of completing economic and monetary union. to discuss and adopt a recommendation on the economic and budgetary policy of the euro area, conceiving it as an organic entity and doing so before the discussion on the individual countries is a change not only of procedure but also of concepts and policy; it is a change that is consistent with a conception of the euro area as an economic union and not as a mere monetary union. so parliament appreciates this innovation, which we consider to be the most positive and significant element of the communication of 21 october, and we intend to contribute by means of this debate to enriching this innovation at the political and democratic level, aware as we are of the responsibilities that come with being - as you have rightly recognized in this house - the euro parliament. for this reason too, we believe that the terms and nature of our contribution to the six-monthly budget of the euro area, if we wish to call it that, must be strengthened and formalised, also through an interinstitutional agreement which should also cover parliament's role in democratically monitoring the implementation of the macroeconomic adjustment programmes linked to the disbursement of financial assistance through the european stability mechanism. but let us get to the substance of these recommendations. thanks to the european central bank's accommodative monetary policy, but also thanks to a more balanced and growth-oriented policy mix that your commission, president juncker, rightly pursued in its first year, economic recovery is under way, supported by higher domestic consumption that is also offsetting the weakening of emerging countries' external demand. however, the recovery remains fragile, and is also weighed down by geopolitical factors. it is no coincidence that the ecb, as soon as it adjusted rates and extended the asset purchase programme, declared its readiness to step up its purchasing programme if price developments did not improve. but monetary policy alone is not sufficient to solve the fundamental problems underlying the anemic nature of the recovery. firstly, the low growth potential of our economy, which requires that we continue with determination on the path of structural reforms and strengthen their coordination and convergence, but also the cyclical dimension of the recovery, without which we will not have any structural recovery, is still too modest and requires more decisive action to strengthen domestic demand and private sector expectations. the decisive factor on both fronts is investment, which acts on both the demand and supply sides. the commission has rightly sounded the alarm about the unprecedented volume of current accounts and the extraordinary gap between savings and investment. this is our main problem, which we must face with determination. we are rightly committed to increasing the capacity of our financial system to support the economy; parliament is committed to, and supports, the capital markets union and the completion of the banking union. the first is that full financial integration of the euro area is essential not only for growth but also for strengthening our capacity to share risks and absorb shocks, and the legislative proposal on the european deposit insurance scheme is therefore an essential element. of course, there is also the issue of risk reduction, on which much has already been done with the first two pillars of the banking union, but each further step must be examined with caution, responsibility and gradualness, because we need everything except to create problems where fortunately there are none, and then find that reckless actions dictated by internal policy reasons end up increasing risk rather than reducing it. on the private financing side of financial integration, it is very positive that one of the four recommendations is devoted to the subject of non-performing loans. i also see it as a recommendation to the member states, but also as a recommendation to the commission itself, since, as is well known, from the point of view of the state aid rules, many obstacles have been placed so far to effective and reasonable solutions to this problem. another key element in boosting investment is the plan which bears his name, president juncker, and parliament strongly supports it and hopes that its full potential will be exploited. it is very positive that the recommendations recognize that all these measures are necessary but not sufficient without an appropriate tax policy on the part of the member states. i think that the first recommendation is central in this respect: countries with current account surpluses must strengthen demand and investment, and the quality of our governance will be measured by our ability to achieve this, as well as by our ability to adapt the european fiscal stance of economic and monetary union to developments in the economy, even being prepared to revise it if necessary. of course, the best use of the tools at our disposal to boost growth must be accompanied by a strengthening of our governance, a clear vision for the future. parliament is calling for ambition, we believe that parliament has put forward useful proposals, convergence guidelines, a fiscal capacity, which can also be achieved by permanent treaties, and we are of course ready for an active dialogue with the commission in preparation for the second stage of deepening emu. president juncker, we are counting on you to give the necessary impetus and ambition that are indispensable in the debate on growth and governance, showing that europe when it thinks as one, and when it has the appropriate democratic dimension, is stronger than the obstacles that are in front of it and is up to the great challenges, not only economic but also political, that the complex, terrible, difficult but also full of opportunities world poses to us.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here discussing economic and monetary union with three of the five presidents who have charted the future for 500 million people. we must certainly remember who is juncker, the man who has supported luxembourg for more than 15 years, the tax avoidance system of the big multinationals and dijsselbloem, his successor in the eurogroup, the dutch minister, another figure with responsibilities in this system. your text is nothing but the will written by those who wanted you there, in those positions you hold; it is not democracy, but a different design which deprives the citizens of the possibility of choosing an economic alternative to that imposed by your vision. budgetary stability, private investment, structural reforms, banking union and especially monetary union, the euro: the recipe for failure that's been brewing for years, what's it for? it is used by private capital to strategically divide the rights and public property of sovereign states, and therefore of citizens, and above all to deprive us of the dream of a peaceful and democratic union of peoples. the road map to date gives priority to a banking union which, at its inception and with its first two pillars, has already proved to be a failure. the first pillar, single supervision, is incapable of assessing the real burden of systemic risk in the banking system, not considering derivatives for example, and is full of conflicts of interest between private shareholders, managers and politicians. the recent italian rescue is a clear example of this. the second pillar, the crisis resolution system, is already taking a toll on savers and has already proved to be largely unsuccessful. who pays for the greed of the unsustainable financial system, the savers or the taxpayers? we propose that banks should become banks again, with a real separation between those who use money for the real economy and those who use it for gambling, that central banks should guarantee systemic risk as lenders of last resort for a healthy system. we are telling you this before the bomb explodes in your hand, because under these conditions the financial house of cards will fall ruinously, sending so many people to their deaths. our proposal is on the table in the banking structural reform, take it and make it yours. i now turn to monetary union, the means by which you are starving and terrorizing us. as a currency area with severe imbalances - we know that, and you admit it in your report - we have built the house from the roof without a foundation. you have taken away monetary sovereignty and so democracy is rebelling against this, because you can no longer decide what kind of economic policy. we have only this strategy, which is the commission's strategy, which is bankrupt and then we throw ourselves into these extremes; extremism is not right, you have to have a post-ideological ideology, and so good ideas should be put forward, not extremism. so the rules apply only to the weak and not to the strong and the current account surplus in germany is an example of this. we must punish this behaviour or monetary union is pointless, the only solution here too, before everything blows up in your hands, is an agreed dissolution of the eurozone, and only in this way can we lay the foundations for a different, solidarity-based union, which puts fiscal justice at the centre, the transparency of banking flows and a future that is certainly brighter for everyone, but to do that we will need people other than juncker, dijsselbloem and you, i am sorry, mr president.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, you assured us that the expansion of central bank liquidity would not increase hyperinflation, because it remained within the realm of asset inflation, but draghi, in a recent speech in frankfurt, revealed the opposite, that spillover is possible and that the ecb is pursuing this very objective. too bad i can't tell you in his presence because he defected this morning. but let us see the consequences of the partial trial of the bail-in, carried out with the rescue of four small local italian banks. in italy, it is a scandal that has been filling the front pages of all the newspapers and the opening pages of the television news for days and days, also because there has been the death, i want to remind you, of a small saver, a retired worker, poor luigino d'angelo, one of the many victims, in this case also victims in a physical sense, by his suicide, of these mistakes. the truth is that the italian government was unable to intervene in the drafting of the bail-in directive to prevent the very serious consequences and is now unable to compensate small savers. i am calling for a european response. "i agree, you must demand that the italian government compensate all the poor savers"...
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i heard that the honourable member mentioned italy's new debts. i would like to know from my colleague whether when he mentions italy, he mentions it because he has data, because he has actually said a load of crap, because italy is no longer making debts, italy is under 3% debt/gdp, in fact it is 2.4, so if there is a country that has respected the agreements, this is our country, that is, italy. so when you speak at least about italy, say the right things.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i believe that economic and monetary union has been strengthened by the last serious economic crisis compared to what we had in the past, but unfortunately it remains incomplete. despite the progress we have made and with regard to strengthening economic governance and even the launch of the banking union, we still have a lot to do. our efforts must be directed towards a union capable of achieving greater growth, employment and prosperity for all citizens, without any class distinction, but at the same time it must also be based on solid foundations to meet not only domestic but also global challenges. we must certainly be more competitive with the united states and china as well. i am aware that employment and social developments have been examined in detail in the country reports during the year, with country-specific recommendations, but i would like to stress the urgency and the need to improve the labour market and social performance, certainly to give confidence to all those young people who are still out of work and have a very high rate of youth unemployment. flexsecurity is certainly important, we need to have flexible, reliable employment contracts - not precarious employment, which is a totally different matter - favourable taxation of work, which of course facilitates new recruitment, lifelong learning programmes and job placement aid. i think that we must be more operational at this time, also from an employment point of view.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, president juncker has reminded us that we are experiencing a better structuring of institutional relations in view of the necessary reforms in the second phase of the five-chairman report. i think that there is a clear need for a better structuring of institutional relations, as this debate shows. i think the central point, which has emerged also from many critical debates and not just positive ones, is that we need more political responsibility and democratic legitimacy for the euro area and that we expect the commission to tell us quickly what it thinks can be done immediately within the lisbon treaty, within the existing treaties and what needs to be done by amending the treaties appropriately, if necessary. i think there are two economic points and one political point. the two economic points are: more investment is needed and therefore instruments are needed to bring euro area investment to at least the two trillion needed for the next few years. is an estimate made by the commission. the second is a social pact that defines social rules within a highly integrated area such as the euro area. on the institutional level, however, i believe that the debate should continue on the political relations between the commission and the european parliament, the european parliament and the national parliaments.
vice-president of the commission.– madam president, first of all, i would like to thank members for this fruitful debate. while different views and opinions were expressed, i draw comfort from the fairly broad agreement on the need to strengthen economic and monetary union (emu). completing the emu institutional framework is one of the key issues the eu is facing today, and i believe that the other major challenges which have emerged makes this task even more – not less – urgent. the commission has proposed concrete steps and we value very highly the debates we have held on these matters with parliament and the feedback we have received. as president juncker has stressed, the commission thinks that parliament has a key role to play in ensuring the democratic legitimacy and accountability of economic governance. we need to build on the stronger involvement of parliament, which has happened in recent years, for instance via the economic dialogue. the commissioners concerned and i will continue to be available for discussions on economic matters. we are already listening to members’ calls, for instance by giving more attention to the euro area dimension and to social considerations in the european semester. we must work together to fine tune the best way forward. i have also carefully taken note of members’ remarks on the euro area recommendation. the views of parliament on this recommendation are important and, in the commission’s view, they should feed into the finalisation of the recommendation as it goes through the council. let me conclude by saying that i look forward to continuing to work together during the 2016 european semester.
in writing. i would like to focus on two points. the first concerns investment, which is known to be held back in the euro area by at least three factors: weak demand dynamics, debt accumulation and weak private sector confidence. it is imperative that the eurozone, in addition to supporting demand, address the issue of debt and fragile confidence. the european central bank must put in place monetary policy measures that can actually help to support the economic recovery of the euro area. the second point concerns a proposal recently adopted by the college of european commissioners to revise the approach to the european semester and improve the economic governance of the euro area. the euro area member states should have a unified representation in the international financial institutions, in particular the international monetary fund. if each member state of the euro area speaks for itself, or worse if they contradict each other, the euro area will never have the weight that it should have to complete economic and monetary union. much depends on how it is implemented and whether the coordination mechanism is created to prepare the unified positions that the president of the eurogroup could and should present to the international monetary fund on behalf of all the member states of the euro area.
in writing. ‒ switzerland has concluded an agreement with the eu to gain access to the european asylum support office. i do not intend to oppose the agreement, but i do not agree with the way the eu is handling migration policy and that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ switzerland wants to be part of the european asylum support office. the swiss government gives its approval to the conclusion of the agreement and although we do not share the management of migration at european level and the eu asylum support office we advise not to oppose this agreement respecting the sovereign will of a third state (our neighbor) to want to be part of this mechanism. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of the latter's participation in the european asylum support office, as the path started in 2010 with the adoption of regulation (eu) no 439/2010 establishing the european asylum support office must be continued. we are called upon to improve the implementation of the common european asylum system in order to strengthen cooperation and help the member states to cope with crisis situations, and the accession of the swiss confederation is in this direction, above all in order to encourage the exchange and sharing of good practices.
in writing. ‒ the agreement between the eu and switzerland is approved and provides for switzerland's participation in easo's activities, representation on the administrative board as an observer and annual financial contributions to the easo budget. i voted for it without question.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement with the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office. the agreement will make it possible to formalise the existing cooperation with switzerland.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation because i believe that a greater integration of switzerland into european affairs is, beyond the rhetoric of swiss political announcements, an added value. this agreement is in keeping with the principle of 'clear agreements, long-term friendship' and, in the interests of all, i am glad that i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the recommendation concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of the latter's participation in the european asylum support office.
in writing. ‒ many eu member states still lack a political asylum and reception mechanism appropriate to the emergency situation we have been experiencing for months. the european asylum support office (easo) was established by regulation (eu) no 439/2010 to strengthen cooperation between states in the field of political asylum. the aim of the resolution presented is to support the member states which are under great pressure on this issue. the council, in this resolution, approves the agreement on the accession of switzerland to easo, with the aim of ensuring that the state participates fully in the work of easo. as i believe it is essential that the eu maintains a coherent position on the issue of asylum and support for states, i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this measure as it strengthens cooperation with countries such as switzerland and is now a key element in managing the current migration crisis.
in writing. ‒ i am not opposed to the swiss government's wish to be part of the european union's asylum support office, but i do not share the view that migration should be managed at european level and i will therefore abstain in the vote.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to the draft recommendation for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of the latter's participation in the european asylum support office, because cooperation and collaboration between member states and non-eu countries in the management of the refugee crisis is a priority for me. i think that the council's decision to allow switzerland to join the european asylum support office is a step in the right direction, given the importance of switzerland in the difficult management of migration flows, given that it is a country directly bordering many member states. the swiss membership of easo will therefore enable switzerland to be fully involved in all the actions and interventions that may be necessary should the situation worsen and will open the way to even more important cooperation in other areas, such as the exchange of information and the fight against terrorism, which is necessary for the effective management of all the challenges facing the eu in this field. i also think that the financial commitment to support easo, which switzerland is committing to make, is important in this respect.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the recommendation by mrs metsola on the agreement with the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office. i have decided to give my favourable opinion because i am sure that it will make it possible to formalise and further consolidate the existing cooperation and to improve the handling of asylum applications at a delicate time like the one we are living through.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of the latter's participation in the european asylum support office. the objective of the european asylum support office is to strengthen cooperation between member states and thus help them to cope with crisis situations by stimulating cooperation between member states on asylum, by assisting states whose asylum and reception systems are under particular pressure and by improving the implementation of the common asylum system. in order to carry out its tasks, the european asylum support office should be open to the participation of countries which have concluded agreements with the eu, such as switzerland.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament gives its favourable opinion on the conclusion of the agreement with the swiss confederation on the modalities of the latter's participation in the european asylum support office. i am voting in favour of the proposal, since this agreement will make it possible to formalize the existing cooperation.
in writing. ‒ in this report, the european parliament gives its favourable opinion on the conclusion of an agreement with the swiss confederation on the modalities of the latter's participation in the european asylum support office. the agreement will make it possible to formalize an existing cooperation, and i have therefore decided to support the document by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ i believe that it is necessary to define the modalities of the swiss confederation's participation in the european asylum support office and therefore i have decided to express my support for the conclusion of the agreement to regulate these aspects.
in writing. ‒ the european asylum support office (easo) was established to strengthen practical cooperation between member states on asylum and to support countries whose asylum and reception systems are under pressure. the agreement, which has been submitted to the european parliament for approval, provides for the full participation of switzerland in the activities of easo, thus formalising the existing cooperation. switzerland will be able to participate in the administrative board of the european asylum support office as an observer without voting rights. in addition, the swiss confederation will be required to make annual financial contributions to the budget of easo in an amount calculated in relation to gdp. i voted in favour of approving this agreement with the aim of making our continent's asylum system more efficient.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement with the swiss confederation on the modalities of the latter's participation in the european asylum support office (easo) because i believe that it will help to strengthen cooperation between all the countries of the european territory in order to better manage the migration crisis that we are also experiencing. the swiss authorities have so far participated informally in the work of easo, but this agreement will clarify the nature and scope of the cooperation instruments through which switzerland will be able to participate in the work of the european bureau.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens and citizens of the commonwealth of dominica when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days. the measure raises no problems of any kind and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the short-stay visa waiver agreement with the commonwealth of dominica is a major milestone of symbolic and political value: the eu and its contracting party have made good progress together in recent years, as evidenced by the deepening of political, diplomatic and cooperation relations. this action, which facilitates movement between the citizens of both contracting parties and which, by virtue of the proximity and trust it represents, will be a further instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on issues of concern to the european union and its member states, not least the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of every human being.
in writing. - i vote for it. this series of agreements provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of the various third states (in this case the commonwealth of dominica) when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons, regardless of the reason for their stay, with the exception of stays for the purpose of gainful employment. these are all countries which are not a problem for the european union. most are known as "dream tourist spots". there is no immigration problem in europe and they are all very small countries or even small islands.
in writing. ‒ the commonwealth of dominica, as highlighted in the report, is a small state with genuine growth potential, particularly in the tourism and geothermal sectors. in addition, 11% of the country's gdp is from agriculture. these figures encourage the union to strengthen political dialogue and economic relations with the countries party to the cotonou agreement. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the recommendation concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the commonwealth of dominica on the short-stay visa waiver.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the dominican republic, and has important political significance as well as being a further instrument to strengthen economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. under conditions of reciprocity, visa-free travel also brings benefits for tourist or business travel to the eu and makes it easier for europeans to visit family members who are established in these countries or to travel for business or tourism. the dominican republic also poses no threat in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure in question. the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and citizens of the commonwealth of dominica when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passports) regardless of the purpose of their stay, except for stays for the purpose of gainful employment. the visa waiver agreement not only allows citizens to fully benefit from the acp-eu partnership, but also to participate in it by travelling more economically and practically.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation because i agree with the aim of the proposal, namely an agreement on the facilitation of the issuance of short-stay visas. in addition, the agreement, which provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union, is in my view the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the commonwealth of dominica and a further instrument to strengthen economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. finally, the commonwealth of dominica is a democratic and stable country which, like the european union, upholds the values and principles of democracy, good governance, respect for human rights and the rule of law. i therefore believe it is essential to intensify our relations with this country and encourage it to continue along this path.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the completion of relations between the european union and the commonwealth of dominica, taking on important political significance within the framework of the cotonou agreement, as well as a further instrument to strengthen economic and cultural relations and to intensify political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. i have therefore decided to support this agreement as it could be an opportunity to boost tourism and help strengthen trade and investment relations, particularly through the liberalization of visas which will simplify travel conditions for businessmen. i think it is appropriate for the european commission and the authorities of the commonwealth of dominica to ensure full reciprocity of visa exemption to allow equal treatment for all citizens. i am also convinced that this agreement does not pose any threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order, as the european union has long been committed alongside the commonwealth of dominica in the fight against criminal networks.
in writing. ‒ crossing borders has never been a marginal issue. council regulation (ec) no 539/2001 listed the third countries whose nationals were required to be in possession of a visa to enter the host state. with the negotiations launched in november 2014, the regulation is being drastically amended. the visa-free agreements mean that citizens of the dominican republic no longer need to be in possession of a visa, but can cross the border with a valid ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passport. according to the agreement, the stay must be short and not for work purposes. a national of one of the signatory states may travel to the territory of the other state for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. since i believe that this resolution can bring benefits to the current agreements on the short-stay visa waiver, i am voting in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the short-stay visa waiver agreement between the european union and the commonwealth of dominica. this agreement will be an effective instrument for strengthening political, cultural and economic relations between the two countries. in addition, visa-free travel will undoubtedly bring benefits for tourists or business travellers to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i give my favourable opinion on the conclusion of the agreement on short-stay visas.
in writing. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and citizens of the commonwealth of dominica when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party. this visa waiver applies to all categories of persons and further strengthens both economic and cultural relations between the european union and the commonwealth of dominica. i therefore decided to vote in favour, because visa liberalization will also simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, while at the same time facilitating investment and strengthening economic links between businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the short-stay visa waiver agreement between the european union and the commonwealth of dominica. this agreement, which covers all categories of persons, provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and citizens of the commonwealth of dominica for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this strengthens the bonds of friendship between them and facilitates travel, by granting their citizens visa-free entry. the exemption also has an impact on economic relations by simplifying travel conditions for entrepreneurs and thereby strengthening economic links between enterprises and facilitating investment.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report by mr gabriel on the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for citizens of the union and citizens of the commonwealth of dominica travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. it represents a further and important deepening of relations between the european union and the commonwealth of dominica, which is politically significant in the context of the cotonou agreement and is essential for the strengthening of economic and cultural relations and political dialogue on issues such as human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the report, signed by mr gabriel, supports an agreement providing for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and the commonwealth of dominica when travelling to their respective territories for a maximum period of 90 days. i think that a reduction in the bureaucratic burden of obtaining short-stay visas is desirable and i have therefore decided to support the document by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the achievement and adoption of an agreement between the eu and the commonwealth of dominica, which allows for the short-stay visa waiver, is an important step towards closer relations between the peoples of europe and the caribbean and, more generally, a politically relevant instrument within the framework of the cotonou agreement. i therefore thought i should cast my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and the commonwealth of dominica are governed by the partnership agreement known as the 'cotonou agreement'. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and citizens of the commonwealth of dominica when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passports) regardless of the purpose of their stay, except for those for the purpose of gainful employment. i voted in favour of this agreement because it represents the conclusion of the deepening of relations between the european union and the commonwealth of dominica, and a further instrument to strengthen economic and cultural relations and to intensify political dialogue on a number of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the short-stay visa waiver agreement between the citizens of the european union and those of the commonwealth of dominica as it brings benefits in the tourism and trade sectors. the visa waiver applies to all categories of ordinary passport holders, regardless of the purpose of the stay, except for stays for the purpose of gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ the agreement approved by the european parliament today establishes new provisions for the short-stay visa waiver for citizens of the union and citizens of the commonwealth of dominica travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a short stay of up to 90 days. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passports) regardless of the reason for their stay. this agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the commonwealth of dominica and a further instrument for strengthening economic, tourist and cultural relations and will serve to intensify the political dialogue between the parties.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens and citizens of the republic of vanuatu when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days. the measure raises no problems of any kind and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver with the republic of vanuatu is a major milestone of symbolic and political value: the eu and its contracting party have made good progress together in recent years, as evidenced by the deepening of political, diplomatic and cooperation relations. an action which facilitates movement between the citizens of both contracting parties and which, by virtue of the proximity and trust it represents, will be a further instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on issues of concern to the european union and its member states, not least the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of every human being.
in writing. ‒ this series of agreements provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of the various third states (in this case the republic of vanuatu) who are visiting the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons, regardless of the reason for their stay, with the exception of stays for the purpose of gainful employment. in all these cases, the countries concerned are not a problem for the european union. most are known as "dream tourist spots". there is no immigration problem in europe and they are all very small countries or even small islands.
in writing. ‒ as i have already said in favour of the other countries in the cotonou agreement, i am also in favour of the republic of vanuatu. i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of vanuatu on the short-stay visa waiver with a view to intensifying political dialogue and strengthening economic relations with that country. as the recommendation pointed out, vanuatu's economy is predominantly based on agriculture, which represents 19% of gdp, whereas in europe agriculture and the agri-food industry now represent 46 million jobs and 6% of european gdp. i therefore believe that agreements of this kind can really have an effect, especially in terms of investment.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and vanuatu, and has important political significance, as well as being an additional instrument to strengthen economic and cultural relations and to intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. under conditions of reciprocity, visa-free travel also brings benefits for tourist or business travel to the eu and makes it easier for europeans to visit family members who are established in these countries or to travel for business or tourism. vanuatu also poses no threat in terms of irregular migration or in terms of public security and order. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure in question. the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of the republic of vanuatu when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passports) regardless of the purpose of their stay, except for stays for the purpose of gainful employment. the visa waiver agreement not only allows citizens to fully benefit from the acp-eu partnership, but also to participate in it by travelling more economically and practically.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation because i consider the agreement signed providing for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of the republic of vanuatu to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period to be very positive. it should also be noted that the main areas of cooperation and assistance between the union and vanuatu in the economic field are still the development of the private sector for job creation on the one hand and support for the formulation of economic policies for agriculture and tourism on the other. finally, i would like to call on the european commission and the authorities of vanuatu to ensure full reciprocity in the visa exemption, which must allow equal treatment for all citizens, in particular for all citizens of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver completes relations between the european union and the republic of vanuatu and is a further instrument to strengthen economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. i have therefore decided to support this agreement as it will improve the relations of cooperation and assistance between the union and vanuatu both in terms of developing the private sector for job creation and in terms of supporting the formulation of economic policies for agriculture and tourism, sectors characterised by a high potential for development within these areas. in this regard, i believe it is appropriate for the european commission and the authorities of the republic of vanuatu to ensure full reciprocity of the visa exemption to allow equal treatment of all citizens.
in writing. ‒ crossing borders has never been a marginal issue. council regulation (ec) no 539/2001 listed the third countries whose nationals were required to be in possession of a visa to enter the host state. with the negotiations launched in november 2014, the regulation is being drastically amended. under the visa-free agreements, citizens of the state of vanuatu no longer need to hold a visa, but can cross the border with a valid ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passport. according to the agreement, the stay must be short and not for work purposes. a national of one of the signatory states may travel to the territory of the other state for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. since i believe that this resolution can bring benefits to the current agreements on the short-stay visa waiver, i am voting in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the short-stay visa waiver agreement between the european union and the republic of vanuatu, as i consider it an excellent political instrument capable of strengthening and facilitating relations between this country and the european union from an economic, political and social point of view.
in writing. ‒ i give my favourable opinion on the conclusion of the agreement on short-stay visas.
in writing. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of the republic of vanuatu when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days. i have decided to vote in favour of the agreement because it will help to give a greater boost to the private sector in terms of job creation and to the development of economic policies for agriculture and tourism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of vanuatu on the short-stay visa waiver. annex ii to regulation (eu) no 509/2014 amending regulation (ec) no 539/2001 lists third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement, including the republic of vanuatu. the agreement will have a positive impact, both economically and politically, on investment and the development of the tourism sector, as vanuatu's economy is mainly based on agriculture and various services such as tourism and financial services.
in writing. ‒ the signed agreement provides for visa-free short-stay travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of the republic of vanuatu. the republic of vanuatu is based on a predominantly agricultural economy, but the service sector is also of great importance, particularly tourism and financial services. in this connection, trade relations with the countries of the union are essential, and visa liberalization would facilitate them. i therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the achievement and adoption of an agreement between the eu and the republic of vanuatu, which allows for the short-stay visa waiver, is an important step towards closer relations between the peoples of europe and the caribbean and, more generally, a politically relevant instrument within the framework of the cotonou agreement. i therefore thought i should cast my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation on the approval of the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and the republic of vanuatu. applicants for a schengen visa from the republic of vanuatu are in the vast majority of cases considered to be 'travellers in good faith', i.e. not posing any particular risks. in 2014, out of 190 applications for short-stay visas in the schengen area, 186 were granted, corresponding to a refusal rate close to zero. 36.6% of applicants obtain a multiple-entry visa, a sign of increased confidence in them by the consulates of the schengen area member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on the conclusion of the bilateral agreement between the european union and the republic of vanuatu providing for visa-free travel for nationals of signatory countries visiting the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this compromise, in addition to strengthening cooperation between the european union and the pacific countries, favours the development of the tourism sector and the private sector.
in writing. ‒ the agreement approved by the european parliament today establishes new provisions for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of the republic of vanuatu travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a short stay of up to 90 days. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passports) regardless of the reason for their stay. the agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of moldova, and is a further instrument for strengthening economic, tourist and cultural relations and, finally, for intensifying political dialogue between the parties.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for visa-free travel for eu and trinidad and tobago citizens to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days. the measure raises no problems of any kind and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver with the republic of trinidad and tobago is a major milestone of symbolic and political value: the eu and its contracting party have made good progress together in recent years, as evidenced by the deepening of political, diplomatic and cooperation relations. an action which facilitates movement between the citizens of both contracting parties and which, by virtue of the proximity and trust it represents, will be a further instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on issues of concern to the european union and its member states, not least the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of every human being.
in writing. ‒ this series of agreements provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of various third states (in this case trinidad and tobago) when they travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons, regardless of the reason for their stay, with the exception of stays for the purpose of gainful employment. these are all countries which are not a problem for the european union. most are known as "dream tourist spots". there is no immigration problem in europe and they are all very small countries or even small islands.
in writing. ‒ as for the commonwealth of dominica and the republic of vanuatu, i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago on the short-stay visa waiver. it is important to strengthen the political dialogue with this country, because it allows citizens greater mobility, not only in terms of practicality, but also in economic terms. it is not to be underestimated that this agreement will certainly give a further boost to trade and investment, as the eu is the second largest trading partner of the republic of trinidad and tobago.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and trinidad and tobago, and has important political significance, as well as being a further instrument to strengthen economic and cultural relations and to intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. under conditions of reciprocity, visa-free travel also brings benefits for tourist or business travel to the eu and makes it easier for europeans to visit family members who are established in these countries or to travel for business or tourism. trinidad and tobago is also not a threat in terms of irregular migration or in terms of public security and order. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure in question. the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and citizens of the republic of trinidad and tobago when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passports) regardless of the purpose of their stay, except for stays for the purpose of gainful employment. the visa waiver agreement not only allows citizens to fully benefit from the acp-eu partnership, but also to participate in it by travelling more economically and practically.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation because i believe that the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago, and a further instrument to strengthen economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. finally, i would like to emphasize the impetus given by the visa-free regime to bringing the peoples of europe and the caribbean closer together, since the agreement allows citizens not only to benefit fully from the acp-eu partnership but also to participate in it by travelling more economically and more conveniently.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the short-stay visa waiver agreement between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago as it will be able to boost tourism and help strengthen trade relations. the visa waiver will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs and facilitate investment. the economy of the republic of trinidad and tobago is one of the most dynamic and prosperous in the caricom region, owing to the presence of resources such as oil and gas, high levels of direct investment and growing tourism. the country is therefore a preferred destination for foreign direct investment. in addition, the republic of trinidad and tobago is committed to promoting a diversified and competitive economy, which is technology, innovation and knowledge-based. with its outward-looking approach and its open and liberal trade policy, the republic of trinidad and tobago is a full partner of the union. in this sense, the agreement will strengthen relations between the two parties and give new impetus to trade.
in writing. ‒ crossing borders has never been a marginal issue. council regulation (ec) no 539/2001 listed the third countries whose nationals were required to be in possession of a visa to enter the host state. with the negotiations launched in november 2014, the regulation is being drastically amended. under the visa-free agreements, citizens of the state of trinidad and tobago no longer need to hold a visa, but can cross the border with a valid ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passport. according to the agreement, the stay must be short and not for work purposes. a national of one of the signatory states may travel to the territory of the other state for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. since i believe that this resolution can bring benefits to the current agreements on the short-stay visa waiver, i am voting in favour of this resolution.
in writing. the agreement between the eu and the republic of trinidad and tobago, which provides for the short-stay visa waiver, should be seen as an opportunity to deepen economic and cultural relations and to intensify political dialogue between the eu and this caribbean country. this agreement, which will deepen relations between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago, has important political significance in the context of the cotonou agreement. it will also be possible to strengthen economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. for these reasons, including the possibility of developing a strong partnership on security, particularly in the fight against drug trafficking and human trafficking, i am voting in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago. the agreement will enable the european union to enjoy strengthened economic, social and political relations with the republic of trinidad and tobago, while strengthening the tourism sector.
in writing. ‒ i give my favourable opinion on the conclusion of the agreement on short-stay visas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the eu, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago on the short-stay visa waiver, as i believe that this agreement will bring closer the citizens of the eu and the central american republic and strengthen the tourism sector of both signatory parties. the negotiation by the commission of an agreement with trinidad and tobago, already provisionally in force, on the abolition of visas for short stays follows similar procedures negotiated with the commonwealth of dominica, the republic of vanuatu, samoa, the united arab emirates, grenada, east timor, saint lucia, saint vincent and the grenadines. i believe that the agreement will really strengthen economic relations between the two parties, allowing our entrepreneurs to access those markets, strengthening trade, increasing investment in the country, increasing tourism and promoting the cultural growth of the country. in particular, such cultural growth can generate a strengthening of democracy, the rule of law, fundamental freedoms and human rights in a country that is already at the forefront in the region, but which will benefit even more from the eu's openness and closeness.
in writing. the eu is the second largest trading partner of the republic of trinidad and tobago. the agreement approved today will give a further boost to tourism and help to strengthen relations in the field of trade and investment. i have decided to give a favourable opinion because, in addition to economic reasons, this agreement will further strengthen cooperation in such fundamental areas as human rights and the fight against trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ annex ii to regulation (eu) no 509/2014 also includes the republic of trinidad and tobago among the third countries exempted from the visa requirement for short-stay visits at the external borders. according to that agreement, citizens of the european union and of the republic of trinidad and tobago are exempt from that obligation if they stay in the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the agreement, which has great political value, is an instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and for focusing attention on human rights and fundamental freedoms. for these reasons i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report by mr gabriel on the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for citizens of the union and the republic of trinidad and tobago. this agreement further strengthens relations between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago and is intended to strengthen political dialogue and economic and cultural relations. the agreement will boost tourism and help strengthen trade and investment relations, also considering that the eu is the second largest trading partner of the republic of trinidad and tobago.
in writing. ‒ the achievement and adoption of an agreement between the eu and the republic of trinidad and tobago, which allows for the short-stay visa waiver, is an important step towards closer relations between the peoples of europe and the caribbean and, more generally, a politically relevant instrument within the framework of the cotonou agreement. i therefore thought i should cast my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of the republic of trinidad and tobago when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days. the economy of the republic of trinidad and tobago is one of the most dynamic and prosperous in the caricom (caribbean community) due to the presence of natural resources such as oil and gas and a fast-growing tourism sector. i voted in favour because the eu is the second largest trading partner of the republic of trinidad and tobago and the visa-free regime will simplify travel conditions for businessmen and facilitate investment. i hope, therefore, that this agreement will strengthen relations between the two parties and give new impetus to trade.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the short-stay visa waiver agreement between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago, which will bring benefits for tourism, trade and innovation. it strengthens the economic and cultural relations between the countries party to the agreement. the visa waiver simplifies travel conditions, facilitates investment and promotes an open and liberal trade policy.
in writing. ‒ the agreement approved by the european parliament today establishes new provisions for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of the republic of trinidad and tobago when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a short stay of up to 90 days. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passports) regardless of the reason for their stay. the agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of moldova, and is a further instrument for strengthening economic, tourist and cultural relations and, finally, for intensifying political dialogue between the parties.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for visa-free travel for eu and samoan citizens to the territories of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days. the measure raises no problems of any kind and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver with the independent state of samoa is a major milestone of symbolic and political value: the eu and its contracting party have made good progress together in recent years, as evidenced by the deepening of political, diplomatic and cooperation relations. an action which facilitates movement between the citizens of both contracting parties and which, by virtue of the proximity and trust it represents, will be a further instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on issues of concern to the european union and its member states, not least the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of every human being.
in writing. ‒ this series of agreements provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of various third states (in this case samoa) who are visiting the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons, regardless of the reason for their stay, with the exception of stays for the purpose of gainful employment. these are all countries which are not a problem for the european union. most are known as "dream tourist spots". there is no immigration problem in europe and they are all very small countries or even small islands.
in writing. ‒ it is important for the union to intensify political dialogue within the framework of the cotonou agreement, in order to strengthen not only economic relations but also dialogue on environmental issues and climate change, a topic which is now at the heart of european and international debate. i therefore voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the independent state of samoa on the short-stay visa waiver.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and samoa, and has important political significance, as well as being a further instrument to strengthen economic and cultural relations and to intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. under conditions of reciprocity, visa-free travel also brings benefits for tourist or business travel to the eu and makes it easier for europeans to visit family members who are established in these countries or to travel for business or tourism. furthermore, samoa does not pose a threat in terms of irregular migration or in terms of public security and public order. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure in question. the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of the independent state of samoa when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passports) regardless of the purpose of their stay, except for stays for the purpose of gainful employment. the visa waiver agreement not only allows citizens to fully benefit from the acp-eu partnership, but also to participate in it by travelling more economically and practically.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation because i would like to emphasise that no member state has a consulate in samoa and that samoan citizens therefore have to bear the heavy costs of applying for and obtaining a visa abroad. the exemption will therefore undoubtedly bring benefits for tourist or business travel to the european union. i would also remind you that the economy of samoa is one of the most dynamic in the pacific islands, where agriculture employs two thirds of the workforce and accounts for 90% of exports. the eu is currently negotiating a comprehensive economic partnership agreement with 14 countries in the pacific region, including samoa. finally, the main areas of economic cooperation between the union and samoa are still the development of the private sector, the water sector and the development of tourism. i am convinced that improving the economy and agriculture is one of the aims of the european people's party, not to mention the tourist benefits which the citizens of the union will enjoy as a result of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support the short-stay visa waiver agreement between the european union and the independent state of samoa as it will foster the development of the private sector and tourism. in particular, it will help to improve trade relations with regard to the import of agricultural products such as palm oil, coffee and fishery products. in addition, this visa-free agreement will have a positive impact on investment and the development of the tourism sector. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the agreement as it will help to strengthen economic and cultural relations between the european union and the independent state of samoa and to intensify political dialogue on a number of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ crossing borders has never been a marginal issue. council regulation (ec) no 539/2001 listed the third countries whose nationals were required to be in possession of a visa to enter the host state. with the negotiations launched in november 2014, the regulation is being drastically amended. under the visa-free agreements, citizens of the state of samoa no longer need to hold a visa, but can cross the border with a valid ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passport. according to the agreement, the stay must be short and not for work purposes. a national of one of the signatory states may travel to the territory of the other state for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. since i believe that this resolution can bring benefits to the current agreements on the short-stay visa waiver, i am voting in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the short-stay visa waiver agreement between the european union and the independent state of samoa. the agreement will be an effective instrument for strengthening political, cultural and economic relations between the two countries. in addition, visa-free travel will undoubtedly bring benefits for tourists or business travellers to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i give my favourable opinion on the conclusion of the agreement on short-stay visas.
in writing. the independent state of samoa is an economically growing country, with its population mainly engaged in fishing, agriculture and tourism. despite its small size, this island, which is a state, is a reliable partner of the eu, where its citizens invest and stay. i decided to vote in favour of the agreement because i believe that the conclusion of the exemption agreement will have a positive effect on investment and the development of the tourism sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the short-stay visa waiver agreement between the european union and the independent state of samoa. this agreement will allow citizens of the european union to travel without a visa to the territory of the independent state of samoa for a short stay. this agreement will encourage people-to-people contacts, promote tourism and strengthen trade relations between the european union and the independent state of samoa. moreover, from a mobility perspective, recent data show that there is a high level of trust in samoan citizens applying for visas and that the country poses no threat in terms of migration as well as in terms of security and public order.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and the independent state of samoa when visiting the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. visa liberalisation would result in a lesser barrier to the development of the main areas of economic cooperation between the union and samoa, including the private sector, the water sector and the development of tourism. i therefore vote in favour of mrs gabriel's proposal.
in writing. ‒ the achievement and adoption of an agreement between the eu and the independent state of samoa, which allows for the short-stay visa waiver, is an important step towards closer relations between the peoples of europe and the caribbean and, more generally, a politically relevant instrument within the framework of the cotonou agreement. i therefore thought i should cast my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and the independent state of samoa are governed by the cotonou agreement. i voted in favour of approving this agreement because, due to the absence of consulates of eu member states, samoan citizens have to bear heavy costs to apply for and obtain visas for travel abroad and therefore an exemption would undoubtedly bring benefits for tourist or business travel to the european union. in this way, the samoan people will be able to fully benefit from the acp-eu partnership.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the short-stay visa waiver agreement between the european union and the independent state of samoa as it strengthens economic and cultural relations. the agreement signed allows citizens of the union and citizens of the independent state of samoa to travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons such as ordinary passport holders, except for stays for the purpose of gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ the agreement approved by the european parliament today establishes new provisions for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of the independent state of samoa travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a short stay of up to 90 days. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passports) regardless of the reason for their stay. the agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the country, and a further instrument for strengthening economic, tourist and cultural relations and, finally, for intensifying political dialogue between the parties.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for visa-free travel for eu and grenadian citizens to the territories of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days. the measure raises no problems of any kind and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver with grenada is a major milestone of symbolic and political value: the eu and its contracting party have made good progress together in recent years, as evidenced by the deepening of political, diplomatic and cooperation relations. an action which facilitates movement between the citizens of both contracting parties and which, by virtue of the proximity and trust it represents, will be a further instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on issues of concern to the european union and its member states, not least the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of every human being.
in writing. ‒ this series of agreements provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of various third states (in this case grenada) who are visiting the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons, regardless of the reason for their stay, with the exception of stays for the purpose of gainful employment. these are all countries which are not a problem for the european union. most are known as "dream tourist spots". there is no immigration problem in europe and they are all very small countries or even small islands.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and grenada, on an equal footing with the other member states of the cotonou agreement, in order to strengthen economic and cultural relations. it is important to simplify the conditions for business travellers, but above all i agree with the rapporteur that the agreement will help to boost tourism and give new impetus to trade.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and grenada, and has important political significance, as well as being an additional instrument to strengthen economic and cultural relations and to intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. under conditions of reciprocity, visa-free travel also brings benefits for tourist or business travel to the eu and makes it easier for europeans to visit family members who are established in these countries or to travel for business or tourism. grenada also poses no threat in terms of irregular migration or public security and order. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure in question. the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and citizens of grenada when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passports) regardless of the purpose of their stay, except for stays for the purpose of gainful employment. the visa waiver agreement not only allows citizens to fully benefit from the acp-eu partnership, but also to participate in it by travelling more economically and practically.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation as i believe it is a tool to strengthen economic and cultural relations and to intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms in grenada. i would also like to emphasize that grenada is heavily dependent on banana and spice exports and has taken measures to substantially transform and diversify its economy. the country has seen a considerable decline in the weight of the agricultural sector in favour of the service sector, particularly in the tourism and construction sectors. tourism has made gradual progress but remains underdeveloped compared to other countries in the region. finally, i believe that this agreement will not only improve and develop grenada's economy, but will also help the citizens of the european union who will be able to enjoy better tourist services.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the intensification of relations between the european union and grenada. it is of major political significance within the cotonou agreement, as well as an additional instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations, with the aim of intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. i therefore support the council's decision to conclude this agreement, because visa liberalisation will simplify travel conditions for businessmen, facilitate investment and strengthen economic links between companies. the agreement will also boost tourism and give new impetus to trade. the country in question poses no threat to irregular migration or to public security and order and the introduction of such an agreement will bring significant benefits to both tourist and business travel to the european union.
in writing. ‒ crossing borders has never been a marginal issue. council regulation (ec) no 539/2001 listed the third countries whose nationals were required to be in possession of a visa to enter the host state. with the negotiations launched in november 2014, the regulation is being drastically amended. under the visa waiver agreements, citizens of the state of grenada no longer need to hold a visa but can cross the border with a valid ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passport. the agreement stipulates that the stay must be short and not be for work purposes, since a national of one of the signatory states may visit the territory of the other state for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. since i believe that this resolution can bring benefits to the current agreements on the short-stay visa waiver, i am voting in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the short-stay visa waiver agreement between the european union and grenada, which is instrumental in encouraging trade, economic and political relations between these countries.
in writing. ‒ i give my favourable opinion on the conclusion of the agreement on short-stay visas.
in writing. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver aims to strengthen economic and cultural relations between the european union and grenada. it is a further instrument for intensifying dialogue in a number of areas, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. i decided to vote in favour because visa liberalization will facilitate travel conditions for businessmen and trade relations. finally, i believe that this agreement will have a positive effect on tourism, as it will allow citizens to travel more conveniently and at lower prices.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the recommendation on the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and grenada. the agreement, which allows eu and grenadian citizens to be exempt from the visa requirement for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period, will strengthen the bonds of friendship between the two parties and facilitate travel, as citizens can be exempted from the visa requirement for short periods. this will also ensure the principle of equal treatment for all citizens of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the short-stay visa waiver agreement between the european union and grenada. grenada has taken measures to substantially transform and diversify its economy, leading to a development of the services sector at the expense of the agricultural sector, with particular reference to the tourism and construction sectors. visa liberalisation will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and strengthen economic links between businesses.
in writing. ‒ the achievement and adoption of an agreement between the eu and grenada, which allows for the short-stay visa waiver, is an important step towards bringing the peoples of europe and the caribbean closer together and, more generally, a politically relevant instrument within the framework of the cotonou agreement. i therefore thought i should cast my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation on the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and grenada. the caribbean country faces many challenges due to its small size, its remoteness from foreign markets and the vulnerability of its natural resources. i therefore believe that visa liberalisation will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and strengthen economic links between businesses. the agreement will also boost tourism and trade, strengthen cooperation with the eu countries and deepen bilateral dialogue in a number of areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft european council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and grenada on the short-stay visa waiver, as it aims to develop the tourism and trade sectors. the agreement simplifies travel conditions for entrepreneurs and facilitates and increases trade between businesses.
in writing. ‒ the agreement approved by the european parliament today establishes new provisions for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and grenada travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a short stay of up to 90 days. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passports) regardless of the reason for their stay. the agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the country, and a further instrument for strengthening economic, tourist and cultural relations and, finally, for intensifying political dialogue between the parties.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for visa-free travel for eu and east timorese citizens to the territories of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days. the measure raises no problems of any kind and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver with the republic of timor-leste is an important milestone of symbolic and political value: the eu and its contracting party have made good progress together in recent years, as evidenced by the deepening of political, diplomatic and cooperation relations. an action which facilitates movement between the citizens of both contracting parties and which, by virtue of the proximity and trust it represents, will be a further instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on issues of concern to the european union and its member states, not least the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of every human being.
in writing. ‒ this series of agreements provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of various third states (in this case, east timor) who are visiting the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons, regardless of the reason for their stay, with the exception of stays for the purpose of gainful employment. these are all countries which are not a problem for the european union. most are known as "dream tourist spots". there is no immigration problem in europe and they are all very small countries or even small islands.
in writing. ‒ in the context of relations with the countries party to the cotonou agreement, i reiterate the need to strengthen the dialogue in favour of the republic of timor-leste. in this sense, the short-stay visa waiver can be a tool to simplify conditions for those travelling for pleasure or business, especially for countries whose main trading partners are the union. as the european union is one of the main trading partners of the republic of timor-leste, i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the draft council decision providing for the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and east timor, and has important political significance, as well as being a further instrument to strengthen economic and cultural relations and to intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. under conditions of reciprocity, visa-free travel also brings benefits for tourist or business travel to the eu and makes it easier for europeans to visit family members who are established in these countries or to travel for business or tourism. in addition, east timor poses no threat in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure in question. the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of the democratic republic of timor-leste when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passports) regardless of the purpose of their stay, except for stays for the purpose of gainful employment. the visa waiver agreement not only allows citizens to fully benefit from the acp-eu partnership, but also to participate in it by travelling more economically and practically.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation because i believe that the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is an opportunity to enhance economic relations and tourism. the latter, in particular, is a key sector for the development of the democratic republic of timor-leste, which could attract european citizens both as tourists and as investors. i would remind you that the union is currently the third largest trading partner of the pacific countries and yet it is still the sixth largest exporter to the democratic republic of timor-leste. the visa-free regime, in my view, offers an additional incentive for european entrepreneurs and investors.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the intensification of relations between the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste. it is of major political significance within the cotonou agreement, as well as an additional instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations, with the aim of intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the democratic republic of timor-leste has experienced a very rapid and commendable democratic stabilisation since it gained its independence and has since established relations with the european union that have distinguished themselves by their quality: a democratic culture and electoral process has been radicalised in the country. i am in favour of the council's decision to conclude this agreement because visa-free travel will bring the peoples of europe and the pacific closer together and will enable citizens not only to benefit fully from the partnership established but also to travel more economically and more conveniently.
in writing. ‒ crossing borders has never been a marginal issue. council regulation (ec) no 539/2001 listed the third countries whose nationals were required to be in possession of a visa to enter the host state. with the negotiations launched in november 2014, the regulation is being drastically amended. under the visa-free agreements, citizens of the state of east timor no longer need to hold a visa, but can cross the borders with a valid ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passport. according to the agreement, the stay must be short and not for work purposes. a national of one of the signatory states may travel to the territory of the other state for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. since i believe that this resolution can bring benefits to the current agreements on the short-stay visa waiver, i am voting in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste. the agreement will enable the european union to enjoy strengthened economic, social and political relations with the republic of timor-leste, while strengthening the tourism sector.
in writing. ‒ i give my favourable opinion on the conclusion of the agreement on short-stay visas.
in writing. the democratic republic of timor-leste is an important trading partner for the european union. i believe that the high flow of exports could be further encouraged through the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. i have therefore decided to give a favourable opinion on this agreement which, together with the other measures approved today, will be able to generate a propulsive boost to the economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste on the short-stay visa waiver. east timor is listed in regulation (eu) no 509/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, which replaces regulation (ec) no 539/2001, and its citizens are exempt from the visa requirement for short stays in the member states of the union, while fully respecting equal treatment for all european citizens. the agreement will ensure that citizens can travel more cheaply and conveniently, and will focus on human rights, freedom of communication and gender equality.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste is an opportunity to boost economic relations and tourism in the country. the tourism sector is of key importance for the development of the democratic republic of timor-leste, which could attract european citizens both as tourists and as investors. i therefore vote in favour of the proposal in the comments.
in writing. ‒ the achievement and adoption of an agreement between the eu and the democratic republic of timor-leste, which allows for the short-stay visa waiver, is an important step towards closer relations between the peoples of europe and the caribbean and, more generally, a politically relevant instrument within the framework of the cotonou agreement. i therefore thought i should cast my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of the democratic republic of timor-leste when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days. i voted in favour of this agreement because it represents an opportunity to develop economic relations and tourism. the latter is a key sector for the development of this country and could attract many european citizens both as tourists and as investors. the agreement is also of regional political importance, as it would strengthen the eu's position as a partner of the pacific countries and in the run-up to the accession of the democratic republic of timor-leste to asean (association of southeast asian nations), with which the eu has announced its intention to step up its strategic partnership.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament concerning the conclusion of the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste allowing their nationals to travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period, with the exception of stays for the purpose of gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ the agreement approved by the european parliament today establishes new provisions for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of the democratic republic of timor-leste travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a short stay of up to 90 days. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passports) regardless of the reason for their stay. the agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the country, and a further instrument for strengthening economic, tourist and cultural relations and, finally, for intensifying political dialogue between the parties.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for visa-free travel for eu and saint lucia citizens to the territories of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days. the measure raises no problems of any kind and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver with the territory of saint lucia is an important milestone of symbolic and political value: the eu and its contracting party have made good progress together in recent years, as evidenced by the deepening of political, diplomatic and cooperation relations. an action which facilitates movement between the citizens of both contracting parties and which, by virtue of the proximity and trust it represents, will be a further instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on issues of concern to the european union and its member states, not least the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of every human being.
in writing. ‒ this series of agreements provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of the various third states (in this case saint lucia) who are visiting the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons, regardless of the reason for their stay, with the exception of stays for the purpose of gainful employment. these are all countries which are not a problem for the european union. most are known as "dream tourist spots". there is no immigration problem in europe and they are all very small countries or even small islands.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and saint lucia on the short-stay visa waiver, because it is important to encourage cultural relations with the caribbean countries, in particular saint lucia, which is known for its commitment to fundamental rights. the conclusion of the agreement will strengthen relations between the two parties, give new impetus to trade and give a boost to tourism, which is developing more and more in this country. for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and saint lucia, and has important political significance, as well as being a further instrument to strengthen economic and cultural relations and to intensify political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. under conditions of reciprocity, visa-free travel also brings benefits for tourist or business travel to the eu and makes it easier for europeans to visit family members who are established in these countries or to travel for business or tourism. saint lucia also poses no threat in terms of irregular migration or in terms of public security and order. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure in question. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of saint lucia when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passports) regardless of the purpose of their stay, except for stays for the purpose of gainful employment. the visa waiver agreement not only allows citizens to fully benefit from the acp-eu partnership, but also to participate in it by travelling more economically and practically.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation because i believe that the agreement will strengthen relations between the two parties, give new impetus to trade and give a boost to tourism. furthermore, saint lucia is a young country which, despite its limited resources and small population, has been able to achieve some of the millennium development goals, demonstrating its commitment to fundamental rights. finally, i would like to emphasize that the country intends to develop more and more its tourism sector, which is gradually replacing the once thriving agricultural sector. saint lucia is a democratic and stable country which, like the european union, upholds the values and principles of democracy, good governance, respect for human rights and the rule of law. i would remind you that all these values are part of the values of the european people's party, which is all the more reason to support this noble cause.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the intensification of relations between the european union and the democratic republic of saint lucia. it is of major political significance in the context of the cotonou agreement, as well as an additional instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations, with the aim of intensifying political dialogue on a number of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. although its economy is relatively small compared to other caribbean countries and is mainly based on agriculture, saint lucia is working to create an environment conducive to investment, private sector development and tourism. i welcome the council's decision to conclude this agreement, as it will strengthen relations between the two parties, give new impetus to trade and give a boost to tourism.
in writing. ‒ crossing borders has never been a marginal issue. council regulation (ec) no 539/2001 listed the third countries whose nationals were required to be in possession of a visa to enter the host state. with the negotiations launched in november 2014, the regulation is being drastically amended. under the visa waiver agreements, citizens of the state of saint lucia no longer need to hold a visa, but can cross the borders with a valid ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passport. according to the agreement, the stay must be short and not for work purposes. a national of one of the signatory states may travel to the territory of the other state for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. since i believe that this resolution can bring benefits to the current agreements on the short-stay visa waiver, i am voting in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the short-stay visa waiver agreement between the european union and saint lucia, which is instrumental in encouraging trade, economic and political relations between these countries.
in writing. ‒ i give my favourable opinion on the conclusion of the agreement on short-stay visas.
in writing. the short-stay visa waiver agreement between the european union and saint lucia aims to encourage investment, especially in the private sector. the conclusion of the agreement will make it possible to strengthen cooperation and deepen dialogue in a number of areas, including human rights, and i therefore decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ endorsed the european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and saint lucia on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of saint lucia when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons holding ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passports, irrespective of the purpose of the stay, with the exception of stays for the purpose of gainful employment. this agreement represents the development of economic and cultural relations between the european union and saint lucia.
in writing. ‒ mr gabriel's report, which i approve by voting in favour, refers to the agreement on the exemption from the visa requirement for citizens of the union and for citizens of saint lucia who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the agreement was signed in brussels on 28 may 2015 and has been provisionally applied since that date, pending the approval of the european parliament. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons, regardless of the reason for their stay, with the exception of stays for the purpose of gainful employment. my vote in favour is due to the fact that this agreement has a political value not unlike that of the cotonou agreement, a partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states on the one hand, and the european community and its member states on the other, and thus represents the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and saint lucia.
in writing. ‒ the achievement and adoption of an agreement between the eu and saint lucia, which allows for the short-stay visa waiver, is an important step towards bringing the peoples of europe and the caribbean closer together and, more generally, a politically relevant instrument within the framework of the cotonou agreement. i therefore thought i should cast my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ saint lucia is a young country that is increasingly developing its tourism sector, which is gradually replacing the agricultural sector, which was once a state resource. the agreement will thus strengthen relations between the two parties, give new impetus to trade and boost tourism. i therefore voted in favour of this agreement because it represents the conclusion of the deepening of relations between the european union and saint lucia, and it has an important political and economic significance in the context of the cotonou agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and saint lucia as it aims to strengthen economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue between the contracting parties. i support the european union's willingness to work in favour of this central american island state in order to develop its private sector and to promote trade.
in writing. ‒ the agreement approved by the european parliament today establishes new provisions for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of saint lucia travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a short stay of up to 90 days. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passports) regardless of the reason for their stay. this agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and saint lucia and a further instrument to strengthen economic, tourist and cultural relations and, finally, to intensify the political dialogue between the parties.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for visa-free travel for eu and saint vincent and the grenadines citizens to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days. this exemption for the citizens of saint vincent is not a problem of any kind, whether on immigration or otherwise, and that is why i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver with the territory of saint vincent and the grenadines is an important milestone of symbolic and political value: the eu and its contracting party have made good progress together in recent years, as evidenced by the deepening of political, diplomatic and cooperation relations. an action which facilitates movement between the citizens of both contracting parties and which, by virtue of the proximity and trust it represents, will be a further instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on issues of concern to the european union and its member states, not least the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of every human being.
in writing. ‒ this series of agreements provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of the various third states (in this case grenadines) who are visiting the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons, regardless of the reason for their stay, with the exception of stays for the purpose of gainful employment. these are all countries which are not a problem for the european union. most are known as "dream tourist spots". there is no immigration problem in europe and they are all very small countries or even small islands.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines on the short-stay visa waiver, because i believe that this agreement has important economic and commercial value. saint vincent and the grenadines has, as highlighted in the report, been through a difficult period economically. this agreement can be a useful instrument for giving new impetus to trade, and that is why i have decided to support it.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines, and has important political significance as well as being a further instrument to strengthen economic and cultural relations and to intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. under conditions of reciprocity, visa-free travel also brings benefits for tourist or business travel to the eu and makes it easier for europeans to visit family members who are established in these countries or to travel for business or tourism. the commission has also received comments from the san vincent and the grenadines authorities, which have confirmed that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the san vincent and the grenadines authorities. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure in question. the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of saint vincent and the grenadines when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passports) regardless of the purpose of their stay, except for stays for the purpose of gainful employment. the visa waiver agreement not only allows citizens to fully benefit from the acp-eu partnership, but also to participate in it by travelling more economically and practically.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation because i believe that the agreement will further strengthen relations between the two parties and give new impetus to trade. i would also like to point out that from an economic point of view saint vincent and the grenadines has been going through a difficult period, characterised in particular by natural disasters and the deterioration of the export conditions of the main agricultural product - the banana - and that these factors have hampered the economic recovery of the country, seriously damaging the tourism sector. finally, i am convinced that, thanks to the macroeconomic policies adopted, saint vincent and the grenadines has improved its external trade performance and has been able to successfully launch a programme of economic diversification which has been accompanied by measures to increase the volume of exports, to strengthen the tourism sector and to improve the level of social development.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the intensification of relations between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines. it is of major political significance within the cotonou agreement, as well as an additional instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations with a view to intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. following a difficult period of natural disasters and deteriorating export conditions, saint vincent and the grenadines has experienced positive socioeconomic developments. thanks to the macroeconomic policies adopted, the country has seen considerable improvements and there is still a wide margin for improvement. i have therefore voted in favour of the council decision on the conclusion of this agreement, since it will further strengthen relations between the two parties and give new impetus to trade.
in writing. ‒ the short-stay visa waiver agreement provides that citizens of saint vincent and the grenadines may stay in the territory of the eu member states for a period of 90 days in any 180-day period without the need for a visa. the visa waiver is the crowning achievement of the eu's relations with the countries of saint vincent and the grenadines, as it contributes to intensifying political dialogue, promotes tourist travel both from these states to europe and vice versa, with a consequent impact on the economies of the countries involved. i am in favour of the agreement, which has objectives which are shared, and i hope that the uk and ireland, as eu member states, will also be able to join it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the short-stay visa waiver agreement between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines. the agreement will be an effective instrument for strengthening political, cultural and economic relations between the two countries. the commission has also proposed that the visa waiver should be extended to all citizens of the union.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the conclusion of the agreement on short-stay visas.
in writing. the agreement we are discussing is part of a wider reality which shows saint vincent and the grenadines' commitment to launching a programme of economic diversification. this has led to a strong increase in exports and a strengthening of the tourism sector. i have therefore decided to give a favourable opinion, as the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver will only strengthen relations with the european union in several areas.
in writing. ‒ endorsed the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines. relations between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states of the one part, and the european community and its states, of the other part. the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of saint vincent and the grenadines when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons, regardless of the reason for their stay, except for stays for the purpose of gainful employment. the agreement is to be seen as an instrument to enhance political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms, between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines is the culmination of the deepening of political and economic relations. the abolition of the visa requirement would help the economic recovery of a country already badly affected by previous natural disasters, which, among other things, have negatively contributed to the export of the main agricultural product, bananas. i therefore vote in favour of mr gabriel's report.
in writing. ‒ the achievement and adoption of an agreement between the eu and saint vincent and the grenadines, which allows for the short-stay visa waiver, is an important step towards bringing the peoples of europe and the caribbean closer together and, more generally, a politically relevant instrument within the framework of the cotonou agreement. i therefore thought i should cast my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the agreement signed in brussels on 28 may 2015 provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of saint vincent and the grenadines when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passports) regardless of the purpose of their stay, except for stays for the purpose of gainful employment. following a number of major natural disasters, the macroeconomic policies adopted by saint vincent and the grenadines have improved its external trade performance and enabled it to successfully launch an economic diversification programme which has been accompanied by measures to increase the volume of exports, boost the tourism sector and improve the level of social development. i voted in favour of the agreement because it will further consolidate relations between the two parties and give new impetus to trade.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines as it promotes tourism, economic and cultural development. the agreement will allow all categories of persons, irrespective of the reason for their stay, with the exception of stays for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity, to travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ the agreement approved by the european parliament today establishes new provisions for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of saint vincent and the grenadines travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a short stay of up to 90 days. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passports) regardless of the reason for their stay. the agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the country, and a further instrument for strengthening economic, tourist and cultural relations and, finally, for intensifying political dialogue between the parties.
in writing. ‒ given the importance of the economic interests of many of our citizens and businessmen in the uae, i have voted in favour of this report which grants visa exemption to both parties for stays of up to 90 days.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver with the united arab emirates is a major milestone of symbolic and political value: the eu and its contracting party have made good progress together in recent years, as evidenced by the deepening of political, diplomatic and cooperation relations. an action which facilitates movement between the citizens of both contracting parties and which, by virtue of the proximity and trust it represents, will be a further instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on issues of concern to the european union and its member states, not least the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of every human being.
in writing. ‒ the uae stands out in this list because tourism is marginal to the economic mobility of business travellers to the eu. the positive opinion remains, however, given the important economic peculiarities of the country for many of our citizens and businessmen.
in writing. ‒ this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and the united arab emirates is the culmination of years of intensive bilateral cooperation between the european union and the united arab emirates. i would remind you that this is the first arab country with which the european union will sign such an agreement. i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and the united arab emirates, as i believe that it could have positive consequences for economic development.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the united arab emirates, and has important political significance as well as being an additional instrument to strengthen economic and cultural relations and to intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. under conditions of reciprocity, visa-free travel also brings benefits for tourist or business travel to the eu and makes it easier for europeans to visit family members who are established in these countries or to travel for business or tourism. the united arab emirates also poses no threat in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure in question. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and citizens of the united arab emirates when visiting the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passports) regardless of the purpose of their stay, except for stays for the purpose of gainful employment. the visa waiver agreement allows citizens not only to fully benefit from the eu-uae partnership, but also to participate in it by travelling in a more cost-effective and practical way.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation because i felt it was my duty to stand up for the more than 150,000 european citizens residing in the uae, and above all because the vast majority of them have seized opportunities for economic activity. i would also like to point out that each year, some 1.6 million europeans visit the uae. in 2014, around 230,000 uae citizens travelled to europe, mainly for business trips and luxury tourism, figures that cannot be underestimated. finally, this agreement makes it easier for many europeans to visit their family members in the uae or to travel for business or tourism, and the same applies to uae nationals.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the intensification of relations between the european union and the united arab emirates. it is an instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations with the aim of intensifying political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. given that the uae has a high proportion of european citizens, one of the main obstacles to travel to europe is the visa requirement, its cost and the need to plan your trip in advance. the visa-free agreement would simplify movements between europe and the uae, thus allowing people to travel for business or tourism more easily. moreover, the eu is now the uae's largest trading partner: this relationship will be facilitated by the visa agreement. for the reasons listed above, i am convinced that this agreement is necessary, as it will allow the full benefit of the partnership between the two countries to be realized by enabling cheaper and more practical travel.
in writing. ‒ the short-stay visa waiver agreement provides that uae nationals may stay in the territory of the eu member states for a period of 90 days in any 180-day period without needing a visa. the visa waiver is the crowning achievement of eu relations with the uae, as it helps to intensify political dialogue, encourages tourist travel both from this country to europe and vice versa, with a consequent impact on the economies of the countries involved. i am in favour of the agreement, which has ambitious and acceptable objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and the united arab emirates. more than 150 000 european citizens reside in the uae, and the vast majority of them have taken up opportunities for economic activity. the visa waiver agreement would therefore allow many europeans to travel more easily, as well as bearing witness to lasting bilateral relations which will benefit from being deepened.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the conclusion of the agreement on short-stay visas.
in writing. the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and the united arab emirates is a further step towards strengthening economic and cultural relations. with regard to tourism, data shows that about 1.6 million citizens visit the uae every year. i decided to vote in favour of the agreement because, in addition to the economic benefits, it will make it easier for european citizens to visit the united arab emirates and vice versa, and will give a considerable boost to the tourism sector.
in writing. ‒ supports the recommendation on the draft council decision on the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and the united arab emirates. the aim of the agreement is to make it easier for many europeans to visit family members in the uae or to travel for business or tourism purposes. the same would apply to uae nationals. the visa waiver agreement will allow citizens not only to fully benefit from the eu-uae partnership, but also to participate in it by travelling more economically and practically.
in writing. ‒ mr gabriel's report aims to achieve a visa-free agreement for short stays between the european union and the united arab emirates. the commission notes that the united arab emirates has a long-standing relationship with the european union, which has been strengthened by the recent agreement between the european union and the united arab emirates on the visa waiver for citizens of the united arab emirates. for these reasons i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the achievement and adoption of an agreement between the eu and the uae, which allows for visa-free short-stay visits, is an important step towards bringing the peoples of europe and the caribbean closer together and, more generally, a politically relevant instrument in the framework of the 1988 cooperation agreement between the european union and the cooperation council for the arab states of the gulf. i therefore thought i should cast my vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and the united arab emirates (uae) are governed by the 1988 cooperation agreement between the european union and the cooperation council for the arab states of the gulf. the united arab emirates is an industrialized country with high income. as regards trade relations, the eu is now the largest trading partner of the uae, which is the 14th largest trading partner of the union and its member states. in 2014, trade reached a value of eur 51 million. i am voting in favour of approving this agreement because these trade relations can only be facilitated by the application of the visa exemption.
in writing. ‒ the agreement approved by the european parliament today establishes new provisions for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of the united arab emirates travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a short stay of up to 90 days. the visa waiver applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passports) regardless of the reason for their stay. the agreement is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the country, and a further instrument for strengthening economic, tourist and cultural relations and, finally, for intensifying political dialogue between the parties.
in writing. ‒ parliament approved the draft council decision on the establishment of a memorandum of understanding between ohim and eurojust. the main aim is to encourage cooperation between the two bodies, while respecting the specific objectives of both. in short, it is a matter of following up the desire to improve and establish an exchange of information between these bodies, which is necessary for the prevention and combating of illegal practices. such cooperation and cooperation shall not, however, permit the exchange of information and personal data. in the event of serious violations of the provisions of the memorandum, a provision is made for the temporary suspension of the application of the agreement until the completion of the consultations and negotiations provided for. i voted in favour of this because i am confident that cooperation between ohim and eurojust will ensure that the objectives of both are better achieved and at the earliest possible time, and that the european citizens will benefit from this.
in writing. ‒ the chrysogonos report is balanced and acceptable. i believe that more effective cooperation between the office for harmonisation in the internal market, which is responsible for the management of trade marks and industrial designs, and eurojust should be promoted. i am convinced that a more effective exchange of information between these authorities will benefit many sectors of made in italy which are constantly affected by unfair competition and trademark infringement. i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. - i vote for it. the purpose of the decision is to promote cooperation between the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) and eurojust (which is responsible for coordinating major crime investigations in several member states and also has competence in the fight against fraud, money laundering and computer crime). the benefit of the agreement should be the exchange of information between the respective authorities and, consequently, those industrial sectors which are constantly subject to unfair competition and infringement of their trade marks. please note that ohim is the office responsible for the management of trade marks and industrial designs for the eu internal market.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by eurojust of the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonisation in the internal market and eurojust. i believe that the terms of the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonization in the internal market and eurojust help to improve the performance of their respective tasks. the memorandum of understanding serves the common interest of both eurojust and ohim, as one of the purposes of the memorandum is precisely to promote cooperation between eurojust and ohim in accordance with their respective mandates in order to develop a strategic partnership that can help both eurojust and ohim to achieve their objectives.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the opinion on the proposal for a council decision implementing the approval of the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonisation in the internal market and eurojust. the purpose of this memorandum is to promote cooperation between eurojust and ohim in accordance with their respective mandates and the text not including the exchange of personal data does not present any negative aspects. i voted for it, for sure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft implementing decision concerning the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonisation in the internal market (ohim) and eurojust. the purpose of the memorandum of understanding is to promote cooperation between ohim and eurojust in accordance with their respective mandates. under the provisions of the memorandum, the exchange of information or experience does not include the transmission of operational information, including data relating to an identified or identifiable person. the ep shares this approach and calls on the council to monitor the application of this guarantee. the memorandum also provides that disputes concerning interpretation or application are to be settled by consultation and negotiation between representatives of eurojust and ohim, thus excluding third party arbitration. finally, in the event of serious non-compliance, either party may temporarily suspend the application of the memorandum of understanding pending consultations. the ep also called on the council to adopt the memorandum as such.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because i think it is right that the internal market should be more closely monitored through the intervention of the judicial cooperation body eurojust. i think it is essential that everything within our union should be as clear and secure as possible, so that the two organisations can ensure that the market service offered in the eu is optimized, always in accordance with their mandates.
in writing. ‒ eurojust and ohim concluded a memorandum of understanding declaring their willingness and readiness to develop strategic cooperation in order to achieve their respective objectives. it can therefore be concluded that eurojust and ohim recognise that the terms of the memorandum of understanding contribute to the better performance of their tasks. i therefore agree with mr chrysogonos' report.
in writing. ‒ illicit trade is on the rise, mainly due to the increasing use of the web for buying and selling. the resolution calls for cooperation between eurojust and ohim in the fight against counterfeiting and piracy. parliament will have to give its opinion on the council's proposal to approve the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonization in the internal market and eurojust to strengthen the fight against crime. i am in favour of the above resolution which aims to combat and limit crime and protect consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure because a strengthening of cooperation between the office for harmonisation in the internal market and eurojust will help to improve the functioning of both bodies.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the decision to promote cooperation between the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) and eurojust, which is responsible for coordinating major crime investigations in several member states and whose responsibilities include the fight against fraud, money laundering and cybercrime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by eurojust of the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonisation in the internal market and eurojust, because i believe that better and closer cooperation between the two authorities can bring benefits to both institutions. i have shared the approval by parliament and the council of the memorandum of understanding signed between eurojust and the office for harmonisation in the internal market and i believe that a greater flow of information and data between two institutions working in related fields, the judicial and the protection of intellectual property, will allow eurojust to perform its tasks more effectively. finally, i welcome the decision to exclude the exchange of operational information, and in particular of individual data relating to identifiable or identified persons, as it strikes the right balance between the need for more efficient operations by the two authorities on the one hand and the protection of privacy on the other.
in writing. the memorandum of understanding aims to promote cooperation between eurojust and ohim in accordance with their respective mandates. it defines and enhances cooperation between the two bodies and contains a clause on disputes concerning the interpretation or application of the agreement itself. these will have to be resolved through consultations and negotiations between the representatives of eurojust and ohim, thus excluding third party arbitration.
in writing. ‒ endorsed the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by eurojust of the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonisation in the internal market and eurojust. the purpose of the memorandum is to promote cooperation between eurojust and ohim with a view to developing strategic cooperation which can help them achieve their respective objectives and contribute to the better performance of their tasks.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of mr chrysogonos' proposal as the purpose of the memorandum is to promote cooperation between eurojust and the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) in accordance with their respective mandates. the memorandum of understanding demonstrates that eurojust and ohim are ready to develop strategic cooperation aimed at achieving their objectives.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to support the conclusion of the memorandum of understanding between eurojust and the office for harmonization in the internal market. i believe that such cooperation, within the limits of its mandate, can be an added value for the full harmonization of the european internal market. for these reasons i am in favour of this.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) and eurojust is intended to promote cooperation between the two parties in mutual respect of their respective mandates. several provisions in the memorandum are noteworthy. i voted in favour of this report because the memorandum of understanding is in the common interest of both eurojust and ohim and creates the basis for strategic cooperation that can help them achieve their respective objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion of the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonisation in the internal market and eurojust as it promotes cooperation between the representatives of the two institutions and allows the objectives set to be achieved.
in writing. ‒ the resolution adopted today formalises the conclusion of the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) and eurojust. the purpose of the agreement is to strengthen cooperation between the two institutions in accordance with their respective mandates. both eurojust and ohim consider that the terms of the memorandum of understanding will ensure better execution of their activities; that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european union costs italy 5.5 billion a year. i have voted against this text which aims to speed up the payment of contributions, given that the member states' contributions to europe are already very high and almost entirely spent on financing foolish decisions which affect our citizens severely and put our businesses in crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the council regulation on the arrangements for the member states to make their own resources available. many of the resources that member states pay to the eu are based on vat and gross national income. this regulation arises from the (alleged) need to ensure the timely payment of these resources by the member states. in practice, the proposal provides for the commission to ask the member states to pay part of the resources already in the first half of the year and a number of other measures to speed up the payment of contributions from the eu member states. this measure, among other things, is the result of the work of the working group coordinated by mario monti on the reform of the own resources system. our delegation does not consider it a priority to improve the management of the (huge) flow of money from the member states to finance policies, the aims and actions of which we do not share in the main.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the dossier is to introduce changes and clarifications of a mainly technical nature to the budgetary provisions currently in force. although as a delegation i am certainly in favour of a comprehensive reform of the system, which would make the mechanism simpler, more effective and more transparent, i opted for an abstention in order not to give full support to a system such as the present one which is certainly unfair in the calculation of contributions by the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure in question. regulation (ec) no 609/2014 on the methods and procedures for making available own resources by member states is part of the new own resources legislative package that will enter into force at the beginning of 2016 (applied retroactively from 1 january 2014). the technical regulation containing practical provisions on such matters as the establishment of traditional own resources, the retention of supporting documents, the rate applicable to own resources based on gdp, the timing for making them available and for making adjustments, and the provisions on the management of liquidity and non-recoverable amounts.
in writing. ‒ considering that a report on the calculations and data underlying the adjustments to vat and gni balances should be submitted to parliament every year and that the commission proposal also contains amendments to the rules on interest, i believe it is necessary to provide for effective rules to ensure that member states pay their contributions to the union budget on time. i am satisfied with the content of the report and its objective. i also think it is useful that the adjustments to contributions should be handled as automatically as possible in order to avoid political interference with the already agreed arrangements for financing the union budget and to minimise the margin of discretion left to member states as regards the deadlines for the payment of their additional contributions. i therefore feel that i should vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the council's proposal to amend regulation no 605/2014 on euratom (european atomic energy community) and believe that effective rules should be established to ensure that member states pay their contributions to the union budget on time, in order to enable the commission to manage the overall budget effectively.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the resolution is to approve certain amendments to the measures currently in force concerning the european union's resources. the union shall operate on a budget financed entirely from its own resources. the own resources ceiling has been maintained at 1.23% of the gross national income (gni) of the eu member states. there are three categories of resources in the eu system today: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of equal treatment to all workers in the same sector. the new measures should ensure timely payment of contributions to the eu budget to allow for more efficient treasury management. the calculation of member states' contributions to the eu budget has not always been transparent and for this reason i am in favour of a reform of the system which can make the mechanism simpler and clearer. although various corrections have been made over time, such as the 'british correction' achieved by thatcher, they have certainly not helped to make the whole thing more transparent. for that reason i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because, although the commission's proposal on own resources is generally acceptable, parliament's report tends to politicise a strictly technical procedure.
in writing. ‒ if, after the monstrous failure of italy, a person like mario monti finds a place in europe by coordinating the work of the working group on the reform of the own resources system from which this proposal arises, it really means that the eu must be completely revolutionized.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the main objective of the proposal for a regulation is to make the rules on the payment by the member states of their contributions to the union budget more effective. i have decided to vote in favour of the proposal for a regulation because it is necessary to minimise the margin of discretion left to the member states as regards the deadlines for the payment of their additional contributions to the union budget resulting from the gni adjustments. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of passengers and the number of seats.
in writing. ‒ the new own resources legislative package, which will enter into force at the beginning of 2016, contains a council regulation (no 609/2014) on the methods and procedures for making own resources available by member states. it is a technical regulation which is essential to regulate a number of matters of fundamental importance, and this fact leads me to vote in favour of the report under consideration. these are therefore practical provisions on such matters as the establishment of traditional own resources, the retention of supporting documents, the rate applicable to own resources based on gdp, the timing of their availability and the adjustments and provisions for the management of liquidity and non-recoverable amounts.
in writing. ‒ i reiterate my opinion on the need to implement common and effective rules to ensure the timely payment of each member state's contributions to the union and i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the amendment of regulation (eu) no 609/2014 meets the eu's treasury needs. this is largely a technical regulation containing practical provisions on such matters as the establishment of traditional own resources, the retention of supporting documents, the rate applicable to own resources based on gdp, the timing for making them available and for making adjustments and provisions on the management of liquidity and non-recoverable amounts. the idea of amending this regulation arose at the end of 2014 due to the exceptionally high amounts of vat and gni-based own resources adjustments in the case of some member states. in order to allow the commission to manage its treasury effectively, it is necessary to provide for effective rules to ensure the timely payment by member states of their contributions to the union budget and to avoid a repetition of incidents similar to those of 2014. i also hope that the commission will draw up recommendations in this respect in order to facilitate comparisons between member states, given that the way in which the member states manage their national accounts for contributions to the union budget is very different.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 609/2014 on the rules and procedure for making available traditional own resources and own resources based on vat and gni, and on measures to address the need for treasurers,a as it provides for effective rules ensuring the timely payment by member states of their contributions to the union budget and makes any delay in payment more burdensome.
in writing. ‒ i took part in the vote on the regner report.
in writing. ‒ the dismissal is requested on the basis of the allegation of non-payment of the mp's salary as a manager to a former employee. there doesn't seem to be any extremes for immunity under the rules.
in writing. ‒ mr georgios kyrtsos is accused of non-payment of part of his salary by a former employee of the newspaper of which he was the editor. the alleged offence does not in the least concern parliamentary activity, it clearly has nothing to do with parliamentary activity, and mr kyrtsos himself has stated that he does not want to avail himself of parliamentary immunity. i therefore voted in favour of the request for waiver of immunity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the request to waive the immunity of georgios kyrtsos. the text under discussion sets out the ep's reasons for requesting the waiver of georgios kyrtsos' immunity. on 21 july 2015, the president informed, pursuant to rule 9 (1), that he had received a letter from the public prosecutor's office of the supreme court of greece requesting the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of georgios kyrtsos. the committee considered that the charges clearly had no connection with his office as an mep but related to his previous position as manager of two newspaper publishing companies. georgios kyrtsos is accused of failing to pay part of the salary of one of his former employees of the newspaper publishing companies he managed. furthermore, there is no reason to suppose that a fumus persecutionis exists.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the request to waive the immunity of georgios kyrtos as the unlawful actions were committed before his candidacy.
in writing. ‒ the competent greek authorities have requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of georgios kyrtsos. the latter was charged and prosecuted before the athens district court for failure to pay part of the salary of one of his former employees. every citizen must be equal before the law and i believe that every member of parliament is first and foremost a citizen who has the duty to appear before the law of his own state, without any immunity. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission has adopted a decision to waive the immunity of mr kyrtsos, which i support by voting in favour of mr regner's report. it must be borne in mind that there is no reason to assume that the underlying intention of the procedure is to prejudice the political activity of the member, since it was initiated some years before the member's term of office began.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i thank the rapporteur for her work and i agree with what is required in the report. my vote is therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the immunity of georgios kyrtsos, member of the european parliament. i believe that it is appropriate to allow the greek prosecutor general to carry out the appropriate investigations in order to determine whether or not the allegation of non-payment of part of the salary, relating to 2013, against a former employee of two newspaper publishing companies, of which georgios kyrtsos was the manager at the time, can be upheld. however, i would like to stress that my vote in favour of this recall does not imply a judgment as to the guilt or innocence of the member.
in writing. ‒ i took part in the vote on the svoboda report.
in writing. ‒ stelios kouloglou is accused of defaming members of the patras prison staff. there doesn't seem to be any extremes for immunity under the rules.
in writing. ‒ mr stelios kouloglou was accused of defaming the prison staff of the prison in patras. the accusation refers to statements that the honorable would have made in 2010 through the press in his role as a television reporter role he held at that time. the allegations relate to the behaviour of certain members of the prison staff at patras. as the facts, as well as the alleged offence, predate mr kouloglou's tenure as a member of the european parliament and do not concern the exercise of his current duties, i voted in favour of the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for waiver of immunity of stelios kouloglou. the text under discussion sets out the ep's reasons for requesting the waiver of mr kouloglou's immunity. on 7 august 2015, the president informed, pursuant to rule 9 (1), that he had received a letter from the public prosecutor's office of the supreme court of greece requesting the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of stelios kouloglou. the committee considered that the commission should be given the opportunity to present its proposal to the european parliament, which would then be able to take a decision on the matter. mr kouloglou is accused of making statements to the press in 2010 regarding the probity of certain members of the staff of the patras prison, at a time when he was working as a journalist and mainly producing television reports. furthermore, there is no reason to suppose that a fumus persecutionis exists.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the request to waive the immunity of stelios kouloglou as the unlawful acts were committed before his election as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ in the european system, parliamentary immunity is a relic of very old rules and represents a privileged legal status granted to members. the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european community was signed in april 1965 and provides for the application of such immunity to be discussed on a case-by-case basis. today we are dealing with the case of stelios kouloglou, accused of defaming the prison staff of patras. the crime was committed when kouloglou was a documentary filmmaker and journalist, and not during his term as an mep since 2015, making it clear that he should not be granted immunity. that is why i am voting in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the proposal by mr svoboda concerning the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr stelios kouloglou, as there is no reason to believe that there is an intention to prejudice the political activity of the member (fumus persecutionis) by this measure, which was initiated a few years before the member's term of office began.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for the work he has done and i agree with what is required in the report. my vote is therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the immunity of stelios kouloglou, member of the european parliament. i believe that it is appropriate to allow the greek prosecutor general to carry out appropriate investigations in relation to possible legal action concerning a suspected crime. stelios kouloglou is accused of defaming members of the patras prison staff. the accusation refers to statements that stelios kouloglou allegedly made to the press in 2010 about the probity of certain members of the staff of the patras prison, at the time when he was working as a journalist and producing television reports.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the egf to the tune of eur 2.6 million to help 1 603 finnish workers and 69 companies in the computer programming and consulting sector. the globalisation adjustment fund is a very important tool to support citizens in this time of crisis, but the eu should focus on addressing the failures of the internal market as a whole, rather than just looking after its victims.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is useful to provide support for redundant workers and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, or as a result of the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis, or as a result of a new economic and financial crisis of a supra-regional nature. the fund should be used to assist them in re-entering the labour market by updating their training and at the same time providing them with financial support. the egf should, therefore, be mobilised in order to provide financial assistance to workers in undertakings which have suffered serious physical or mental disorders as a result of these events.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this intervention by the european globalisation adjustment fund. the case concerns the redundancy of 1603 workers by 69 companies in the computer programming and consulting sector in finland. the intervention is expected to benefit 1200 workers. the financial contribution to be made will be approximately eur 2.6 million. the origin of this employment crisis is the nokia case, which affected an entire manufacturing sector affected, among other things, by a massive phenomenon of relocation to asia. the figures allocated will be used, among other things, to launch mentoring, training, recruitment incentives, start-up grants and entrepreneurship incentives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of 1,603 workers made redundant by fi/computer programming, a company active in the computer sector, as a result of globalisation. in recent years, the distribution of employment in the information and communication technologies (ict) sector between the union and other economies has been changing to the detriment of the eu. the commission also notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. the events that led to the redundancies are linked to the nokia case. the development and design of operating systems for nokia mobile phones employed thousands of finns. unfortunately, these functions have been relocated to non-european countries, further aggravating the problem of ict unemployment in regions with high unemployment. the aim of the fund is to facilitate the rapid reintegration of these redundant workers into employment by means of personalised support measures. i regret that italian companies cannot benefit from this fund because of the lack of support from local institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the egf for finland. the measure in question refers, in the context of the 2015 budget, to the mobilisation of the fund for a total amount of eur 2 623 200. the request is based on the professional relocation of 1,200 of the 1,603 redundant workers in 69 enterprises operating in the economic sector classified under nace rev. 2 division 62 (programming, computer consultancy and related activities) in several nuts 2 regions throughout finland. it should be noted that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide support for workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the causes of the crisis include developments in nokia in recent years, which have had a significant impact on the ict sector in finland. the development and design of operating systems for nokia mobile phones employed thousands of finns, particularly in oulu, but these functions have now been relocated to non-european countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, received from the commission on 6 november 2015, to mobilise the egf in favour of finland to facilitate the reintegration of redundant workers in 69 finnish enterprises. a request for the mobilisation of the egf amounting to eur 2 623 200 has been made. the commission has concluded, in accordance with all the applicable provisions of the egf regulation, that the application fulfils the conditions for a financial contribution from the fund, and i feel i should vote in favour of granting aid to workers in an eu member state. i think that european citizens and workers must be protected as far as we can.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide its own additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows. the employment crisis in question and the resulting impact on the labour market are attributable to developments in recent years affecting nokia. in fact, while the development and design of operating systems for nokia mobile phones has for years provided important employment opportunities for thousands of finnish people, these activities have now been transferred to countries outside europe. this profound change has deprived many citizens of their jobs in the ict sector in finland: i therefore support the granting of funds by the egf to stem the employment crisis and to provide support to the citizens affected by helping them to re-enter the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the egf is an instrument created by an agreement between the european parliament and the council to help staff affected by the global crisis to return to work. for finland, it was decided to allocate eur 2 623 200 to support the 1 200 workers who had been made redundant. the information received from finland on the situation in the country was immediately clear and in line with the required standards. i have appreciated the procedure which the commission has followed in relation to the request for an egf allocation to promote employment by granting the european fund grants to the finnish state, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i do not consider the measure in question to be a useful tool for developing policies that promote growth and job creation, nor to be able to give an exhaustive answer as regards redundant workers in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the 1,603 workers in 69 finnish software and it consultancy companies.
in writing. ‒ today's vote concerns finland's request for funding from the european globalisation adjustment fund, an instrument set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the request concerns 1,200 of the 1,603 workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of telecommunications industries to non-european countries. having received the favourable opinion of the committees concerned and of the egf working party, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of this fund to support workers in difficulty.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, the major structural changes in world trade and the economic crisis are having an impact on workers and the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) plays a leading role in this context. finland submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf, following the redundancies of 1 603 placements in 69 enterprises. in view of the fact that the application for assistance meets the eligibility criteria laid down by the egf regulation, i have decided to vote in favour of the report, which offers practical help to these workers in difficulty.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf for finland to facilitate the reintegration of redundant workers in 69 enterprises operating in different regions throughout finland. the european union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of the economic and financial crisis and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market. it is therefore necessary to ensure that the fund supports the stable reintegration into the labour market of individual redundant employees affected by the consequences of structural changes in world trade flows.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report by mr zanni. the proposal, the 17th in this year's budget, concerns the mobilisation of the egf, the european globalisation adjustment fund set up to provide additional support for workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. it involves the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 623 200 for the benefit of 1 200 of the 1 603 finnish workers who have been made redundant.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report signed by mr zanni, because i think it is desirable that the european globalisation adjustment fund should be mobilised as soon as possible to help the 1,200 redundant workers at computer programming, a finnish technology company. i believe it is essential that the european union should act in support of community citizens in difficulty, in accordance with the principle of solidarity between countries.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis of recent years has significantly changed the structural character of world trade. in europe, efforts have been made to remedy this through the establishment of a european globalisation adjustment fund, which is intended to provide additional support to workers who have been most affected by these changes. i am convinced that this is one of the most appropriate ways in which europe can show its support for disadvantaged categories of workers, and i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i support the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in relation to the application egf/2015/005 fi/computer programming submitted by finland to provide a financial contribution to the ict (information and communication technologies) sector. this request was made following 1,603 redundant placements by 69 companies. the software industry has been experiencing serious difficulties in recent years, due in particular to relocation to non-european countries, production closure and development stoppages. some companies have been forced to close their production plants and restructure their workforce, resulting in a high number of redundancies. i hope that the mobilisation of the egf, amounting to eur 2 623 200, will prove to be a decisive instrument for supporting these workers and a valuable aid to the companies affected by the crisis in the computer programming sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for finland as the application for assistance meets the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation. finland will receive aid totalling eur 2 623 200 to facilitate the reintegration into employment of 1 063 redundant workers in 69 finnish enterprises.
in writing. ‒ nokia's batteries are dead and finland is in recession again. the collapse of a giant that generated 4% of the country's gdp and today finds itself with little skill and innovation to compete in the smartphone market. we in the m5s support and voted in favour of the request to mobilise the egf (european globalisation adjustment fund) to provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the consequences of the changes in world trade and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market. we welcome the fact that the finnish authorities have proposed a wide range of measures for redundant workers and we consider that the request from finland fulfils all the conditions for obtaining a financial contribution.
in writing. ‒ the provisions introducing controls on goods in transit for the purpose of combating counterfeiting, currently not allowed under eu law, are an important legislative innovation that will help to strengthen the filtering system on goods arriving from non-european areas. the updating of the legislation on small consignments and the management of the office for harmonization in the internal market (which will be known as the eu intellectual property office) together with the use of financial resources derived from the registration fees of european trademarks will be useful to defend the quality and work of italian and european companies, combating counterfeiting and the illegal introduction of low-quality foreign products, and to protect the intellectual property rights of european citizens from misappropriation by entities outside the common market.
in writing. ‒ please note that the final vote is not taken on the second reading. in this case, therefore, we shall vote only on the rejection proposal of the efdd group. a majority of meps is required to reject the council's position. i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation for the second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 207/2009 on the community trade mark, amending commission regulation (ec) no 2868/95 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of council regulation (ec) no 40/94 on the community trade mark and repealing commission regulation (ec) no 2869/95 on fees payable to the office for harmonisation in the internal market (trade marks and designs). i believe that the agreement reached is important in that it introduces controls on goods in transit, which are not currently permitted under community legislation, in order to combat the occurrence of counterfeiting. but there's more. with the modernisation of the eu trade mark framework, businesses, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, will finally be able to rely on a clear, simple and affordable registration system for the management and protection of their innovative industrial goods. in short, by introducing these provisions, europe is doing what it should always do, namely putting the needs and interests of end users at the centre.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the rejection proposal submitted by the efdd group which, if approved, would have rejected the council's position and closed the procedure. the main objective of the proposal is to foster innovation and economic growth through more accessible and efficient trade mark registration systems throughout the union. the revision of the regulation aims to adapt the terminology of the treaty of lisbon and the provisions of the common approach on union decentralised bodies and to streamline the procedures for applying for and registering a european trade mark, in order to increase legal certainty by clarifying the provisions and establishing a suitable framework for cooperation between ohim and the national offices for the development of common tools and to align the framework with article 290 tfeu.
in writing. ‒ in my view, the proposed changes to the governance structure of the office for harmonization in the internal market are excessive in order to improve the performance of the body in question: the changes should be mainly in the composition of the management team and the selection of the executive director of the agency. the changes proposed in the report are not in line with what i think is the way to improve the efficiency of the system. i voted against because following the measures set out in the report would not make the field in question better and more efficient and i think that something else should be done.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report and i am in favour of this new european trade mark regulation which aims to promote innovation and economic growth by making registration systems more accessible and efficient in the eu. i am particularly in favour of simplifying the procedures for applying for and registering a trade mark. i am sure that this new instrument will certainly serve to strengthen the competitiveness of the market.
in writing. ‒ as is well known, the community trade mark system allows companies to mark their products and services in the same way throughout the european union. following the closure of the negotiations, a compromise was reached on the legislative proposal amending the community trade mark regulation 207/2009 on 25 april 2015. the compromise provides: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union. compensation for the costs incurred by the national ip offices in the overall eu trade mark system (to which up to 15% of the budget of the eu office is allocated); the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the protection of consumers (who can buy goods via the internet outside the eu without running the risk of having their goods not delivered to them because they have been introduced into the eu in breach of trademark law). the compromise also provides for greater protection for traditional specialities guaranteed. i am voting in favour, recognising the benefits that will flow from this for all the countries involved, including the reduction of costs and the complexity of procedures.
in writing. ‒ i am voting with caution on the efdd group's rejection proposal, the text of the agreement brings improvements but the developments we want are still many to be able to support the text with conviction.
in writing. ‒ the eu trade mark reform is an important tool to support growth, increase competitiveness and protect european excellence. this reform simplifies and makes cheaper a number of measures relating to trade marks at both national and european level, such as the registration of a trade mark or the consultation of a trade mark. great strides are also being made in the fight against counterfeiting and organised crime. i wanted to give my vote in support of the council's position.
in writing. after three years of intensive negotiations, the european parliament concludes the major corporate brand reform, a long-awaited measure that modernises europe's capacity to act for growth, global competitiveness, innovation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances. this is an important achievement in defending the 'made in' sector, which goes hand in hand with many other acquisitions made in recent months to promote small businesses, innovative businesses and to broaden investment opportunities.
in writing. the purpose of the revision of the regulation is to simplify the procedures for applying for and registering a european trade mark and to increase legal certainty in this area. the quality and certainty of trademark registration systems in the community area can make a major contribution to innovation and economic growth, and i have therefore decided to support mrs wikstrom's recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i did not consider myself able to vote in favour of the recommendation for the second reading on the council's position on the implementing rules for the community trade mark regulation, as i believe that more negotiation between the various political groups would be necessary.
in writing. ‒ the aim of ms wikstrom's proposal, which i support, is to foster innovation and economic growth through more accessible and efficient eu-wide trademark registration systems. these systems should therefore be able to provide greater legal certainty and to establish an appropriate legal framework for cooperation between ohim and the national offices.
in writing. ‒ a key aspect of the smooth functioning of the market is that consumers can obtain, in a clear and effective manner, the information they need for their purchasing decisions; and at the same time, that firms should not have to bear undue additional costs to operate on the market. this is even more so in the case of the european single market, since one of the fundamental aspects of european products is their recognizability and uniqueness in terms of brands and geographical indications. that is why i voted in favour of the text today, which - thanks also to the intensive work of the italian presidency of the council of the eu, which has drawn up a precise political and technical framework within which this legislative revision has been incorporated - finally provides clarity on the subject of trade marks. first, by renaming the office for harmonization in the internal market the eu intellectual property agency and by clearly defining the different scope of trade marks and geographical indications. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for her work and i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ in addition to the national trade mark systems, council regulation (ec) no 40/94 has created a separate system for the registration of unitary rights with equal effect throughout the eu. it is in this context that the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) responsible for the registration and management of community trade marks was set up. i voted in favour of this initiative because the main common objective is to promote innovation and economic growth through eu-wide trademark registration systems that are more accessible to businesses and more efficient in terms of lower costs, less complexity, more speed, more predictability and legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ this vote means the final adoption at second reading of the legislative package on the community trade mark, the only legal instrument in terms of intellectual property rights that is managed at european level. we voted in favour because we consider the compromise reached acceptable, since additional rules have been included to ensure the fight against counterfeiting by safeguarding the legitimate interests of traders. the new text also eliminates the provision allowing the trademark holder to block the delivery of products purchased by citizens via the internet outside the european union (only if the final buyer is not acting in a commercial capacity). the resolution also adds a new protection for products with a typical geographical indication.
in writing. ‒ member states' laws need to be adapted to the new eu rules on trademark protection and the fight against counterfeiting. the fight against illegality and the protection of the intellectual property of european citizens against misappropriation by persons outside the common market will be all the more effective if it is effectively supported by the member states and the correct adaptation of national legislation, with a view to harmonization and cooperation for the common defence of the quality of production and the work of european enterprises.
in writing. - i abstained. please note that the final vote on the second reading is not taken. in this case, therefore, we shall vote only on the rejection proposal of the efdd group. a majority of meps is required to reject the council's position.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the rejection proposal submitted by the efdd group which, if approved, would have rejected the council's position and closed the procedure. parliament proposed some changes to the governance of ohim, notably the composition of the administrative board and the selection of the executive director of the agency. as regards goods in transit, the measure at issue provides for the right of the proprietor of a registered trade mark to oppose the introduction into the territory of the union of goods from third countries where those goods bear an unauthorised trade mark which is identical to the validly registered community trade mark. this provision shall not apply if the goods are to be taken to a country outside the territory of the union and if the holder cannot prove that his goods are validly registered in the country of final destination.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report by mrs cecilia wikstrom because i think the measures set out in the report are inappropriate to improve the product market in the eu. the proposal emphasises that the owner of a european trade mark may oppose the entry into the union of a product from a third country which may compete with the home mark. i think that this is an exaggerated measure, that it closes too much the way to third countries, the union must absolutely pay particular attention to those products which are european products, but this should not, in my view, preclude relations with non-european countries in the field of trade.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. the directive will make a significant contribution to the approximation of legislation on trade marks and, in particular, to the modernisation and improvement of existing provisions which are now obsolete in relation to current market needs, thus increasing legal certainty. it will also facilitate cooperation between the various national and european actors concerned.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this measure because it ensures greater protection for consumers and rights holders when selling small consignments via the internet, strengthens cooperation between member states and ohim and improves the competitiveness of businesses.
in writing. ‒ i abstain on the efdd group's rejection proposal, the text of the agreement brings improvements, but there are still many developments we would like to see in order to be able to support the text with conviction.
in writing. ‒ i did not consider myself able to vote in favour of the recommendation for the second reading on the council's position on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks, as i thought that more negotiation between the various political groups would be necessary.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the proposal by mrs wikstrom. this proposal introduced important and essential changes to the governance of the ohim. these are changes to the composition of the management board and the selection of the executive director of the agency. with regard to goods in transit, a compromise was found consisting in the right of the proprietor of a registered trade mark to oppose the introduction of goods from third countries into the territory of the union where these goods bear an unauthorised trade mark identical to the validly registered community trade mark. this rule does not apply in two cases: the goods are destined for a country outside the european union and the holder cannot prove that his goods are validly registered in the country of final destination.
in writing. ‒ intended to complement the eu trade mark regulation, this legislation directive on which i voted in favour has as its main objective to harmonise national rules on trade marks. quite simply, the regulatory provisions for the eu trade mark will also apply at national level. this will have the effect of increasing legal certainty for businesses and consumers, and by lowering the costs of registration at eu level for businesses, businesses will have more resources for investment. we must not forget that protecting intellectual property means ensuring that citizens are properly informed about the products they are buying and that companies are given a return on their investment in research and development. a more accessible trade mark registration system at eu and national level promotes innovation and growth, safeguards european manufacturing excellence and is ultimately a further, albeit limited, step towards supporting skilled employment. for this legislative text and for the one on the eu trade mark, it is worth highlighting the intense and hard work of the italian presidency of the council of the eu, which in conjunction with the representatives of the european parliament led to an agreement on the main political and technical issues, paving the way for the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ we welcome this proposal for a directive which modernises the trade mark regulation at community level in a more functional way. the measure, which is necessary to harmonize european and national systems on trade marks, will also apply at the level of the member states, in an attempt to approximate the rules which the various states have so far put in place. this directive is important to us because it will foster innovation and economic growth by creating a single, efficient and accessible trade mark registration system throughout the eu. it will also help to combat counterfeiting of trade marks, which is an essential tool for safeguarding our high standards of consumer health protection, workers' rights and respect for human rights.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for her work and i support the position expressed earlier by voting against.
in writing. ‒ a trade mark is used to distinguish the products and services of an enterprise. it is through branding that a company can attract and retain customers, creating added value and economic growth. i voted in favour of this initiative to recast the directive because it aims to achieve important objectives: modernise and improve existing provisions by amending obsolete provisions, increasing legal certainty and clarifying trade mark rights in terms of scope and limits; to achieve greater approximation of national trade mark laws and procedures in order to make them more consistent with the community trade mark system; facilitate cooperation between member states' offices and ohim (office for harmonization in the internal market) to promote convergence of practices and the development of common tools, by creating a legal basis for such cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to amend the trademark directive because i believe it is important to develop common tools in order to improve cooperation between member states and the office for harmonization in the internal market (umai). the changes voted on today are very significant, above all because they will bring greater clarity and legal certainty and will contribute to the fight against counterfeiting. the report also calls for simplified procedures, greater consumer protection, improved competitiveness for european businesses and reduced costs for all users.
in writing. ‒ the christensen report is balanced and uncritical. the fight against illegal and unregulated fishing is an important objective both for the protection of our market and for the health of our citizens. for these reasons i supported this text which implements new measures to combat these phenomena through a system of control of competences by the port state.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to amend regulation (eu) no 1236/2010 in order to implement neafc (north-east fisheries commission) recommendations 15/2013 and 9/2015, which were adopted with the full support of the eu. the main change is the alignment of the regime with the fao agreement on port state measures to prevent, deter and eliminate iuu fishing. the other change clarifies that ships involved in a transhipment operation in the regulatory area communicate the port of landing, regardless of whether it is a port inside or outside the convention area. in addition, the notification procedures for port state control of foreign fishing vessels are amended in order to adapt them to a modern web-based ict application managed by the neafc secretariat.
in writing. ‒ the main amendment to regulation (eu) no 1236/2010 concerns the alignment of the fao agreement on measures concerning the control system of port state competence in order to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1236/2010 of the european parliament and of the council establishing a control and enforcement regime applicable in the area of the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries. illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing distorts competition and depletes fish stocks. it is therefore our responsibility to eliminate any form of loophole that allows illegal operators to profit from their activities. the union must take action to preserve fisheries resources in an optimal way. parliament, by approving this report, has shown the way forward.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to amend regulation (eu) no 1236/2010 in order to transpose into union law the regime changes adopted in the neafc (north-east atlantic fisheries commission) recommendations. the main amendment to the regulation concerns the alignment of the fao agreement on measures concerning the control system of port state competence in order to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. i voted in favour because the measures will ensure better longterm conservation and optimum use of fishery resources in the north-east atlantic area, producing lasting environmental and social benefits.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure in question. the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries, to which the union is a contracting party, is intended to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fishery resources in the north-east atlantic area, with lasting environmental and social benefits. to ensure the application of the convention and the recommendations adopted by the north east atlantic fisheries commission (neafc), control and enforcement measures may be adopted in relation to the fishing activities concerned. parliament therefore welcomes the incorporation into eu law of the recommendations adopted under the neafc. the ep also called for the commission to be given the power to adopt legislative acts in the field of the environment, and to adopt a directive on the protection of the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because i share the objective of ensuring the long-term conservation and optimum use of the fishery resources of the area concerned. among other things, the main change made by the recommendation is the alignment of the regime with the fao agreement on port state measures to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. i am in favour of this proposal because i believe it is fundamental and i am very keen to combat any unfair practices within our union and, moreover, the amendments will ensure better longterm conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic. i also want to help ensure that the environmental and social benefits are sustainable by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the amendment to regulation (eu) no 1236/2010 concerns the alignment of the fao agreement on measures concerning the control system of port state competence in order to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the amendment will also introduce new electronic control systems which will make these procedures more effective, secure and able to have accurate information in real time. i have decided to support this proposal because the measures that will be taken will ensure better long-term conservation and optimum use of marine resources in the north-east atlantic area, producing lasting results also in environmental and social terms.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to amend regulation (eu) no 1236/2010 on the alignment of the fao agreement on measures concerning the port state competence control system. the main objectives of this proposal are to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal fishing, to ensure better long-term conservation and to optimise fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area. i am voting in favour of the report, and i hope that it will produce lasting results in environmental and social terms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, as the incorporation of these measures into eu law prevents, discourages and eliminates illegal fishing. this will ensure better conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, producing lasting environmental and social outcomes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendment to regulation (eu) no 1236/2010 concerning the alignment of the fao agreement on measures concerning the control system of port state competence in order to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries aims to ensure the optimum use of the north-east atlantic fisheries resources, producing lasting environmental and social benefits. therefore, in order to fully implement the convention, it will be possible to adopt control measures to deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. ‒ the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries, to which the european union is a contracting party, is designed to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of the north-east atlantic fisheries resources, producing lasting environmental benefits. the proposal aims to amend regulation (eu) no 1236/2010 in order to transpose into union law the changes to the regime adopted in neafc recommendations 15/2013 and 9/2014. the measures provided for in this amendment will ensure better long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, producing lasting environmental and social benefits.
in writing. ‒ the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries, to which the european union is a contracting party, has been concluded. it will also ensure the optimum use of the north-east atlantic fisheries resources, producing lasting environmental and social benefits. i am voting in favour of the proposal to adopt control and enforcement measures to ensure the application of the said convention in the general interest of the union.
in writing. ‒ i believe that an agreement such as the one we are discussing is of fundamental importance, especially in order to protect the environment, a highly topical issue which is also reflected in the final document of cop21 drawn up a few days ago. i feel obliged to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ this proposal aims to amend the european union rules transposing the control and enforcement regime adopted by the north-east atlantic fisheries commission (neafc). in particular, regulation (eu) no 1236/2010 is amended in order to transpose into european union law the changes to the regime adopted in recommendations neafc 15/2013 and 9/2014, as amended by recommendation 12/2015, which have become binding on the contracting parties to the neafc convention and, consequently, on the european union. i voted in favour of this report because the main amendment, 9/2014, concerns the alignment of the regime with the fao (food and agriculture organization) agreement on port state competence measures to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, approved by the eu in 2011. those measures will ensure better long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, producing lasting environmental and social outcomes. the proposal is in line with the model of sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in accordance with the objectives of the common european fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the control and enforcement regime applicable to fisheries in the north-east atlantic, as i believe that the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries can ensure the optimum use of fisheries resources. they agree to establish a system of inspection and surveillance of fishing activities in order to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation adopted by parliament today transposes into union law certain recommendations adopted by the north-east atlantic fisheries commission (neafc) on control and enforcement. the main changes concern the communication of transhipments and ports of landing, control of foreign fishing vessels by the port state and infringement procedures. these measures will apply to the convention area on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries in order to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing; in addition, better long-term conservation and optimal use of fisheries resources will be ensured. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in december 2006, croatia and bosnia and herzegovina signed the central european free trade agreement, with the aim of formulating fair and stable rules in trade in goods and services. as a result of croatia's accession to the eu, bosnia and herzegovina should have adjusted the interim agreement in order to take account of the preferential trade with croatia established in the previous agreement. however, unlike the other western balkan countries, no such agreement has yet been reached with bosnia and herzegovina; the country has repeatedly stated that it would only make the necessary changes if the eu made further concessions. i therefore voted in favour of the report, which calls for the extension of the autonomous trade measures for bosnia to be made conditional on bosnia's acceptance of the adjustment of the interim agreement. i think it is appropriate that bosnia-herzegovina should show greater commitment to the eu association process.
in writing. ‒ while i believe that the suspension of the exceptional trade preferences for bosnia and herzegovina does not represent a problem for our production system, i do not agree with the premises of this report which leaves too much room for violation of the rules and lack of control. for all these reasons i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the liberalisation of trade between the eu and the western balkan countries is ensured by a series of stabilisation and association agreements and an interim agreement in the case of bosnia and herzegovina. these agreements provide favourable conditions for the balkan states, allowing unlimited duty-free access to the eu market for most products. unlike free trade agreements, which provide for preferences to be granted by all parties, the autonomous trade measures constitute a unilateral preferential regime in favour of the western balkans. the preferences granted unilaterally by the eu to bosnia and herzegovina are an exceptional condition, designed to support this country and help it on its path of progressive european integration. however, the continuation of this facilitated treatment should be conditional on bosnia and herzegovina's prior acceptance of the eu-led approach of transparency and internal reforms for the enlargement of the free trade area.
in writing. - i abstained. the case in question is rather technical and concerns trade relations between the eu and bosnia and herzegovina. the subject does not present any problems in practice, but it is in principle preferable to give an indication of abstention. our political position on the stabilisation and association processes between the eu and the balkan countries is well known. that is a rather clear contradiction. bosnia in particular is an experiment in a communitarian state which we regard with some scepticism, especially on the 20th anniversary of the dayton agreements. it is clear that we must be consistent with regard to trade relations and take a negative view of the negotiations being conducted by the european commission, which has so far offered 'asymmetrical' openings to the country in question without taking any account of any offensive commercial interests of the neighbouring countries. italy could be considered a member state interested in penetrating the bosnian market, especially in certain sectors. but nothing in the present state of affairs would facilitate that eventuality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure in question. the commission extended the benefits of regulation 1215/2009 for the countries of the western balkans area until the year 2020. this is particularly the case with tariff preferences. the various countries have therefore reached an agreement to adjust tariff preferences with the eu following the accession of croatia. bosnia and herzegovina is the only country that has not reached an agreement and therefore the commission proposes to suspend these benefits for bosnia from january 2016 until an agreement is reached. the committee on international trade of parliament supported this approach, proposing some limited amendments to the contents of the human rights clause.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because i do not think that the conditions are right for these exceptional measures. the disagreements with bosnia and herzegovina arise from the call to adjust the preferential trade agreement with croatia following the latter's accession to the european union on 1 july 2013. i think i support the report because i think it is right to stress that the suspension of trade preferences for bosnia-herzegovina should be seen as an incentive to resolve the dispute with the european union over the interim agreement. i hope, since i am very concerned about the relationship between the eu and third countries, that the new authorities in bosnia will take advantage of the positive impetus given by the adoption of the eu's new approach to that country, also to solve this outstanding problem. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the overall objective of the amendments proposed by the rapporteur is to confirm the eu's effective and firm commitment to the future european integration of the countries and territories covered by the regulation in question by granting unilateral trade preferences. this process of european integration has proved to be the most effective instrument for ensuring stability in the region. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the concessions in question or their possible suspension, as they represent a necessary condition for speeding up the process of political and socioeconomic reforms linked to the 'growth pact', which is essential for the western balkan countries to comply with the copenhagen criteria and the union's acquis. i also agree with the rapporteur that bosnia and herzegovina should adapt the interim agreement to the preferential trade with croatia following the latter's accession to the european union on 1 july 2013 and, at the same time, that the parties involved take account of the mutual interests linked to this issue in order to reach an agreement acceptable to both eu member states and cefta signatory countries.
in writing. - we're at a dead end. three rounds of negotiations between the eu and bosnia and herzegovina were not enough to reach an agreement: in contrast to the eu method, bosnia and herzegovina considers that it cannot increase preferences on the amount of traditional trade and argues that it could do so only in the face of further concessions by the eu. the resulting deadlock, which is damaging the eu's trade interests, has prompted the commission to ask that the extension of the autonomous trade measures for bosnia and herzegovina not be automatic but conditional on the country's acceptance of the eu's method of adjusting the interim agreement. once an agreement on the adjustment of trade concessions has been agreed, signed and provisionally applied by bosnia and herzegovina and the european union, the preferences for bosnia and herzegovina will be re-established. my vote is therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ the liberalisation of trade between the eu and the western balkan countries is ensured by a series of stabilisation and association agreements, as well as an interim agreement in the case of bosnia and herzegovina. the commission proposal proposes three main amendments to regulation (ec) no 1215/2009: the extension of the current preferences until the end of 2020, the introduction of the so-called 'human rights clause' in the atm regulation and the possible suspension of the autonomous trade measures for bosnia and herzegovina as from 1 january 2016. i voted in favour of this report because i think it is important that bosnia-herzegovina should adjust the interim agreement to the preferential trade with croatia following its accession to the european union. in this respect, i believe it is important that the parties involved take account of each other's interests in order to reach an agreement acceptable to both the eu member states and the cefta countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe it is necessary to introduce clauses suspending the application of exceptional trade measures in the event of serious violations of fundamental human rights principles. i hope that the authorities in bosnia and herzegovina will implement reforms to promote effective institutions and ensure equal rights for the three peoples living on their territory.
in writing. ‒ i shall vote against the suspension of trade preferences for bosnia, because, as we know, bosnia does not represent a problem for our production system, but it is clear that the text contains many considerations which we cannot share, such as the principles and rules underlying future trade relations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 introducing exceptional trade measures applicable to countries and territories participating in or linked to the european union's stabilisation and association process and suspending its application with regard to bosnia and herzegovina. whereas, despite the existence of a unilateral preferential arrangement for the western balkans with autonomous trade measures under the free trade agreements, three rounds of negotiations with bosnia and herzegovina were not sufficient to reach an agreement, as the country believes that it will increase preferences in the amount of traditional trade only with further concessions from the eu. i believe that the objective of the proposed amendments, namely the introduction of recourse to delegated acts for decisions on the suspension of preferences in the event of non-compliance, is necessary in order for the eu and bosnia-herzegovina to reach agreement on the adjustment of the interim agreement following the accession of croatia. despite the eu's actual commitment, the countries involved have faced many challenges which i share as they are the most effective tool to ensure stability in the region and to ensure the social integration which is fundamental in the union.
in writing. despite croatia's accession to the european union, bosnia and herzegovina has not yet agreed to adapt the interim agreement to take account of traditional trade. the european union has tried on several occasions to promote a new agreement, but unfortunately it has not succeeded in achieving the desired result. in view of this, i have decided to vote in favour of suspending the exceptional trade measures in respect of bosnia-herzegovina.
in writing. ‒ endorsed the european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 on trade measures applicable to the countries and territories participating in the european union's stabilisation and association process and suspending its application to bosnia and herzegovina. the commission proposal proposes three essential amendments to the regulation: the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the implementation of the un security council resolution on the situation in the middle east. the overall objective of these proposed amendments is to strengthen the eu's effective and concrete commitment to the european integration of the countries and territories covered by the regulation by granting unilateral trade preferences.
in writing. ‒ the commission extended the benefits of regulation 1215/2009 for the countries of the western balkans area until the year 2020. this is particularly the case with tariff preferences. the union countries therefore had to find an agreement to regulate their tariff preferences, except for bosnia and herzegovina, for which the commission has rightly proposed to suspend these benefits from january 2016 until an agreement is reached. i therefore vote in favour of the report by my colleague.
in writing. ‒ we strongly support this measure suspending the atm measures against bosnia and herzegovina. following the accession of croatia to the european union, it became necessary to revise the trade-related part of the association and stabilisation agreements concluded with the western balkan countries. unfortunately, however, the negotiations with bosnia on this subject are still at a standstill. the suspension of the atm measures will take effect from 1 january 2016 and, while not causing significant economic losses for bosnia, it affects the government in sarajevo from a political and symbolic point of view.
in writing. ‒ i have carefully examined the amendments to the draft report under discussion here and i thank all my colleagues for their work. i agree with you on the general principle that emerges from this: the eu's accession process for any country cannot be without regard to progress in respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. i am absolutely in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the method by which the european union amends trade agreements following the accession of a country is based on the concept of traditional trade between the new eu member and the country that has signed the trade agreement with the eu. all the western balkan countries have signed the cefta (central european free trade agreement), accepting this method and concluding negotiations to amend their agreements with the eu, except bosnia and herzegovina. after three rounds of negotiations, bosnia and herzegovina has not reached an agreement. the country believes that it cannot change the tariff preferences, which relate to traditional trade, and that it would only change them in the face of further concessions from the eu. for this reason, my vote in favour of temporarily suspending trade measures is motivated by the fact that this deadlock has already caused several damages to the eu's trade interests and to the process of european integration. i therefore hope that an agreement can be reached soon between the parties to avoid the suspension of the preferences for bosnia and herzegovina as from 1 january 2016.
in writing. ‒ trade between the european union and the balkan countries is guaranteed by a series of stabilisation and association agreements. given that bosnia and herzegovina has not yet agreed to adapt the interim agreement to take account of the preferential traditional trade between croatia and bosnia and herzegovina in the framework of the central european free trade agreement, i consider it appropriate to express my vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 on exceptional trade measures applicable to countries and territories participating in or linked to the european union's stabilisation and association process and suspending its application with regard to bosnia and herzegovina.
in writing. ‒ the text voted today concerns the suspension of the extension of unilateral trade preferences to bosnia and herzegovina. the latter, as one of the western balkan countries participating in the stabilisation and association process (sap) with the eu, would have unlimited access to the european market in the absence of duties. however, as it has not yet agreed to adapt the saa to take account of the accession of croatia to the union, those exceptional measures could be suspended. i am of the opinion that bosnia and herzegovina should regard this interruption as an incentive to resolve the current trade disputes in order to enjoy the benefits of eu integration like the other balkan states, to whom the autonomous trade preferences have been extended for another five years. i hope that the country will take advantage of this decision to clarify some outstanding issues with the european union, and i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the fight against terrorism and crime in its most serious forms requires clear rules and strong cooperation between international bodies more than ever. under the current europol decision, the council is the body competent to conclude international agreements with third states or international organisations, after consulting parliament. the proposal put forward by the rapporteur, mr mussolini, calls for the establishment of a new form of cooperation between europol and the united arab emirates. the establishment of forms of cooperation with the united arab emirates for the better management of the forms of crime present in the territory or for the prevention of such crimes is undoubtedly indispensable. on 26 november, however, negotiations were concluded on an amendment to the gai regulation establishing europol, which will shortly enter into force. i have therefore decided to abstain, as i think it would be appropriate to wait until the new rules have come into force before establishing new cooperation agreements.
in writing. ‒ europol's cooperation with the united arab emirates is essential to strengthen the joint fight against international organised crime in the financial and economic spheres. the gulf countries have a key role to play in this context, given the increase in the activities of criminal organisations in these regions. that is why i voted in favour of this strategic cooperation agreement.
in writing. ‒ the agreement between the european union and the united arab emirates on strategic cooperation between europol and the uae security agency is to be welcomed as it can help in the fight against financial fraud and can contribute to strengthening international cooperation in financial investigations and other relevant criminal matters, also considering the nature of the important hub that the uae is in the financial transactions of the near and middle east.
in writing. ‒ europol's cooperation with the uae is motivated by clear operational needs. according to europol, the uae is becoming increasingly prominent in the fight against organised crime, as the country is becoming an increasingly important hub for financial and economic crime. the agreement provides for the possibility of requesting further information regarding financial investigations and other relevant criminal matters. for this reason and in view of the importance of information with the gulf countries at this time, i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ my vote in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the agreement on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism between the united arab emirates and europol, as europol's cooperation with the united arab emirates appears to be motivated by objective operational needs. according to europol, the uae is becoming increasingly important in the fight against crime and therefore also in the fight against terrorism. the country is becoming an increasingly important hub for crimes that go beyond financial and economic crimes. strategic cooperation with the uae and other countries with a strategic role is an aid and support in the fight against crime and strengthens international action in financial investigations as well as in all other cases of breach of the law.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the approval of the proposal for a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the united arab emirates. cooperation is certainly important, but we believe that the agreement should have been concluded after the entry into force of the new europol regulation, with reference to the updated data protection legislation currently under discussion. i have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ organised crime and terrorism are two wide-ranging phenomena affecting an increasing number of european and non-european countries. the union's response to this must therefore be to strengthen international cooperation and conclude strategic and/or operational agreements with third countries. it is therefore essential, in order to take concrete action against criminal activities of various kinds, that europol conclude agreements with non-european states to strengthen the exchange of information, expertise, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures and methods of crime prevention. the united arab emirates has become an increasingly important hub for financial and economic crime, and in recent years large amounts of money from fraud, money laundering and other crimes have been reinvested in the country. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report, hoping that the council could proceed swiftly with the conclusion of the agreement with the united arab emirates.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the draft resolution under consideration concerns the proposal to approve the conclusion of a strategic cooperation agreement between the united arab emirates and europol. this agreement excludes the exchange of personal data, which is why the issue of data protection is not relevant in this case. the information exchanged could include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and crime prevention methods, training activities, as well as advice and support in the context of individual criminal investigations. parliament welcomed the conclusion of this strategic cooperation agreement with the united arab emirates, as it would help and support the fight against financial fraud and would help to strengthen international cooperation in financial investigations and other relevant criminal matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mrs alessandra mussolini on the draft council implementing decision approving the agreement between the united arab emirates and europol on the fight against terrorism and serious crime. the project in question concerns the conclusion of a strategic cooperation agreement between the two parties concerned with regard to the exchange of information such as: expertise, strategic analysis reports, information on criminal investigation procedures and crime prevention methods. this willingness to cooperate is due to the fact that, according to europol, the uae is becoming more and more prominent in the fight against organised crime and the country is becoming an increasingly important hub for financial and economic crime. i agree with the rapporteur that it is important to cooperate with this world power in a similar field. the eu is right to work with third countries that are at the top of the agenda on such sensitive issues, and this with the united arab emirates on terrorism and crime could be a very important alliance.
in writing. ‒ according to europol, the uae is becoming increasingly prominent in the fight against organised crime: this is because the country is becoming a hub for financial and economic crime. the proceeds of criminal activities are reinvested in the uae and the most important criminals involved in the fraud in question have sought refuge in the country. i am therefore in favour of the strategic cooperation agreement between the uae and europol, as i am convinced that it represents a significant help and support in the fight against financial fraud. it would also help to strengthen international cooperation on financial investigations and other relevant criminal matters.
in writing. ‒ the proposal concerns the approval of the proposal for a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the united arab emirates. although i believe that cooperation between europol and the united arab emirates is important, particularly in the fight against organised crime and terrorism, i am voting against pending the entry into force of the new europol regulation, which concerns cooperation agreements and provides for the exchange of sensitive personal data.
in writing. ‒ cooperation agreements between europol and third countries, and in this case the uae, for the fight against organised crime or terrorism are relevant for an effective exchange of information also concerning criminal procedures, crime prevention methods, participation in training activities and the provision of advice and support in individual criminal investigations. it should be noted that a new europol regulation will be introduced shortly: it would have been more appropriate to postpone the conclusion of new cooperation agreements at that time, which would be subject to the new and stricter rules contained in the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft decision on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism between the united arab emirates and europol. this cooperation agreement provides the basis for an increasingly effective and specialized exchange of information, without prejudice to the right to the protection of personal data.
in writing. ‒ i support this report on cooperation between europol and the united arab emirates. it is motivated by clear operational needs. according to europol, the uae is becoming increasingly prominent in the fight against organised crime, as the country is becoming an increasingly important hub for financial and economic crime.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as europol has explained, the uae is playing an increasingly central role in the fight against organised crime. this is supported by data on the flow of money from criminal activities that is reinvested in the country, which has a duty to identify, block and bring back those responsible for criminal actions. i have decided to give my favourable opinion because i believe that this agreement will enable both parties to conduct more accurate investigations through the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information.
in writing. ‒ the project in question relates to the proposal to approve the conclusion of a strategic cooperation agreement between the united arab emirates and europol. the exchange of personal data is excluded from this agreement. this evidence justifies the absence of data protection measures. i agree with the decision to include in the agreement the exchange of any expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and methods of crime prevention, training activities, as well as advice and support in the context of individual criminal investigations and i therefore vote in favour of the honourable member's proposal.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support the approval of this strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the uae, as i believe it can be a useful tool in the fight against financial and economic crime. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ according to council decision 2009/371/jha, it is for the council to approve the conclusion of international cooperation agreements between europol and third countries or international organisations, after consulting the european parliament. such agreements may concern the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information. according to europol, the uae is becoming increasingly important in the fight against organised crime, as the country is becoming an increasingly important hub for financial and economic crime. proceeds from criminal activities have been reinvested in the uae and the most prominent criminals involved in financial fraud have sought refuge in the country. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that cooperation between the parties can be an important practical support in the fight against financial fraud and can help to strengthen international cooperation in financial investigations and other relevant criminal matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the conclusion of the agreement on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism between the united arab emirates and europol, as i believe it is of paramount importance to increase the security of citizens and to combat all forms of organised crime, both at european and transnational level. this agreement will allow for more specific and accurate investigations through the exchange of information to prevent and deter terrorist acts. the european union's objective is to develop strategic plans to eradicate terrorism and ensure the best possible protection for its citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for the approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the united arab emirates because i believe that it is of paramount importance in the fight against international organised crime and terrorism. according to the provisions of the agreement, the information exchanged should include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis and information on criminal investigation procedures. in addition, information on crime prevention methods, training activities, the provision of advice and support in individual criminal investigations should also be included. the agreement does not allow for the exchange of personal data.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, member states have been working together to establish a european energy union, with the aim of creating an environmentally friendly electricity grid. the debate on this subject, however, sees the clash between different interests and approaches of a predominantly political nature. the different needs and views expressed made the discussion of the dossier rather complex, leading in some cases to procedural strains and the approximate treatment of certain subjects. at the other extreme are those who consider the environmental and public health externalities of the use of highly polluting and harmful materials by industry to be negligible. on the other hand, those who consider environmental policy, energy policy and industrial policy to be inseparable, arguing for example for the need to make more intensive use of the circular economy. i voted against because i believe in the need to reduce the costs of industry and its use of polluting materials in the name of protecting the environment.
in writing. ‒ the fight against climate change, the subject of the recent united nations conference in paris, is one of the key issues for the near future. the european union's action must be directed towards strengthening international choices, towards an energy transaction based on the progressive abandonment of fossil fuels. my vote in favour of the gróbarczyk report is motivated by the conviction that energy policy choices are crucial to supporting the eu's long-term competitiveness and reducing its energy dependence on exporting countries. the aim must be a new energy model for europe based on demand reduction, energy efficiency and renewable energy. we must work towards a genuine eu external energy policy, focusing on the transparency of future agreements with third countries and security of supply. the stability of the new energy system will necessarily depend on the involvement of businesses and citizens, including through the creation of new investment opportunities in energy.
in writing. ‒ this report is decidedly biased and calls on the member states to give up their energy sovereignty in favour of a european centralism which has not only always proved inefficient but has always been very disadvantageous for our territories and our citizens. for all these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ in the light of recent international developments and the objectives agreed in paris at cop21, the transition to an energy union based on security of energy supply, on an increasingly integrated and sustainable energy market, remains one of the european union's highest priorities. i very much welcome the report voted on today, which represents an important step towards building an increasingly secure and resilient european energy system, based on ambitious targets aimed at the fundamental shift towards a new energy model, based on the progressive decarbonisation of the economy. consistent with the socioeconomic and environmental challenges we face, increasing energy integration at home, coupled with increasing efficiency in the use of resources, is the key to reducing the union's over-reliance on supplies from third countries, while also bringing us into line with the principle of diversification of energy sources, which is also of paramount importance to ensure our security and competitiveness in this area. on the other hand, much remains to be done and we must act consistently. i therefore share the concern expressed by this parliament about the doubling of nordstream, which is operating in the opposite direction to those principles.
in writing. ‒ the development of renewable energy sources is crucial to making the eu's energy independence a reality. the union and its member states currently import more than half of all the energy they consume: excessive dependence on imports is found in crude oil (over 90%), natural gas (66%) and coal (72%). the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the volume of imports from the prc into the union during the review investigation period. this consumption represents 60% of eu gas imports. the reduction of the union's energy demand and the development of renewable energy are essential elements for achieving energy independence and for meeting the targets set by cop21 in paris.
in writing. - i vote against it. the energy union is designed to take away the last remaining strategic sovereignty of the member states: the freedom to determine the energy mix, as enshrined in article 194 tfeu. measures such as a collective purchasing mechanism, the unification of key contractual clauses, or the ex-ante and ex-post intervention of the commission (in practice: a veto power) on intergovernmental agreements with third countries are a clear violation of article 194 itself.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on progress towards a european energy union 2015/2113 (ini), as i see the european energy union as the next institutional and political challenge. the european union is indeed strengthened by the conclusion of the historic agreement at the conference on climate change (cop 21), but we all know the cost of non-europe and the current existence of economic, regulatory and administrative barriers to energy consumption, which do not protect but rather exacerbate energy poverty. i therefore agree with the report and stress the importance of achieving the right balance between the objectives set out and a resilient and secure ecosystem, emphasising the key role of the following themes: the trading of emission allowances (ets); the necessary introduction of real driving emissions testing; the decarbonisation of the transport, maritime and land-based aircraft sectors, which are still excluded from binding commitments; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the recycling of waste.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the draft report deals with several aspects of the european energy strategy. particular attention is paid to energy security issues, such as the need to diversify energy sources and supply routes and the initiatives needed to complete the internal energy market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal on what the eu's energy plan should be for the next few decades. the report cites the commission's draft which i fully support in the ambition of 'a framework strategy for a resilient energy union'. the common objective of the whole union must, in my view, be to develop energy strategies in the light of the long-term objective of achieving a reduction of greenhouse gases of 80-95% by 2050, and before that a reduction of 40% by 2030. i think that the european reference point on these issues should be energy security and each member state, on the basis of its own potential, environment, knowledge and costs and economic needs, should commit itself to achieving the objectives. i also support the report in calling on the commission to facilitate the effective use of the existing eu funding schemes in this area.
in writing. i voted for this report because i am in favour of creating a sustainable energy environment, in terms of energy security, naturally trying to reduce prices, and to achieve climate objectives. i believe that the energy union must become a driver of growth and investment, especially for the revision of the energy label, because we must give consumers a clear, precise idea of what the information and savings for citizens will actually be.
in writing. ‒ the gróbarczyk report is part of the juncker commission's energy union macro-initiative. the report presents diametrically opposed views, which see on the one hand the forces that deny climate change, fossil fuel generation, including highly polluting (coal) and unconventional (shale gas, oil from oil sands), support the large extractive and generation industry. at the other extreme are those who consider energy policy to be inseparable from the fight against climate change, who aim to reduce the impact of energy costs through the circular economy, who see renewable energy as the main objective for the energy transition, who are against nuclear fission and who favour energy efficiency as the first source, demand reduction, decentralised production and self-consumption. the rapporteur did not hesitate to use procedural instruments (for example, a series of concatenated splits which completely reversed the meaning of one of our amendments on nuclear energy) which were very close to being incorrect, and which were deeply bitterly experienced by various political groups. i have decided to vote against the report, as it is a bit controversial.
in writing. ‒ the energy union will have numerous benefits both economically and sustainably across the eu. as regards energy security, it will make the eu less dependent on external sources and may make energy agreements more transparent; it will also help create new jobs, make european industries, transport systems and the construction sector more sustainable and decarbonised. finally, it will reduce household energy costs. in the resolution, which i voted for, parliament supports the commission in taking measures to achieve the energy union through adequate investment in strategic infrastructure and the promotion of innovation and modernisation; strengthening regional cooperation and in particular mediterranean cooperation; promoting and disseminating best practice at local level and enhancing policy coordination across the eu.
in writing. ‒ on 18 april 1951, the treaty of paris was signed, establishing one of the founding pillars of the european community and the future union, the ecsc, and establishing for the first time in history a shared management of coal and steel resources. today, more than 60 years later, in a changed context, the need to complete an energy union also remains. i am convinced that the report we have adopted is an important step towards a european energy union, because it sets out ambitious measures to achieve greater energy savings and efficiency, the development of renewable energies and, above all, the need for strategic coordination at european level to diversify energy sources and their supply routes. on this last point in particular, i agree with the position expressed in the text and express concern about the proposal to double the capacity of the nordstream pipeline: a unilateral decision that could have detrimental effects on the energy security of the union. the achievement of a single, harmonious and more secure european energy area must pass through shared and coordinated energy choices and policies at european level. only in this way will it be possible to guarantee a future of greater stability and energy independence for the citizens of europe.
in writing. this report follows the saudargas report, which was dealt with in the first half of 2015 and which was unsuccessful. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states. the amendments to the text of the report, as presented, contain a set of strongly contrasting positions, ranging from financial support for nuclear and non-conventional energy shale gas to the absence of a position on decarbonisation, to the circular economy which has decarbonisation and renewable energy as objectives for a real energy transition. unfortunately, it has not been possible to influence the text in such a way as to limit or cancel the financing of nuclear and non-conventional energy. nor has it succeeded in getting the european parliament to take a unanimous position in favour of a gradual decarbonisation of our economy. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the report which would create the energy union. in short, the aim is to take away the last remaining strategic sovereignty of the member states, namely the freedom to determine their energy mix. the implications of such an act are obvious and highly dangerous.
in writing. to be strong and secure, the european union must first be free. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on energy security. this is just one of the reasons why i have been very enthusiastic about the excellent work done by mr flavio zanonato, the shadow rapporteur for the s&d group on the report on progress towards a european energy union, which i support, although i reserve the right to reject the pro-nuclear remarks on the basis of my own deeply held convictions. security, integration of the european energy market, decarbonisation, research and competitiveness are ambitious but indispensable objectives for a responsible, sustainable, free and forward-looking growth of europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on progress towards a european energy union because european energy security defends both europe's security and the sovereignty of its countries and brings about important improvements in terms of efficiency. the eu is also heavily dependent on energy imports from russia, a very unreliable partner that uses its energy sources as a political weapon. it is therefore essential to create a system that protects europe's energy industries from unfair imports from third countries and develops a single market in order to reduce overall costs and improve the competitiveness of the eu economy. i also fully shared the vision of an energy exchange system between the european union and the united states, following developments and good research, with the aim of creating a global renewable energy sharing network. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption is a step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ the european union's energy policy aims to promote and ensure the functioning of the energy market, the security of energy supply, energy saving, energy efficiency, the development of renewable energies, and to strengthen the interconnection of energy networks. it is therefore necessary to ensure a stable regulatory framework aimed at building an energy union to deliver on energy and climate objectives, ensuring a level playing field between european energy producers and third countries, including the widespread application of a revised emission trading system (ets).
in writing. ‒ this report, which i support, is a response to the commission communication on the creation of a european energy union. the draft report focuses on the various important aspects of energy security, including the need to diversify energy sources and supply patterns, and on the initiatives needed to complete the internal energy market.
in writing. ‒ my role as mep member of the envi and itre committees always pushes me to be active and reflective on energy issues. i am more than ever now keen to defend the importance of sustainable energy for the protection of the environment and to support all possible investment in this area. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ europe is facing increasing energy demand, high prices, supply problems and at the same time must reduce the environmental impact of the energy sector. that is why we need a clear energy strategy for the european union. the commission, by presenting plans for a european energy union, aims to ensure that citizens and businesses have access to safe, affordable and environmentally friendly energy. the climate and energy targets set by the eu executive will seek to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, obtain some of the energy from renewable sources and improve energy efficiency. i am therefore aware of the enormous importance of the energy sector and the realisation of an ambitious european strategy, and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report and i hope that all the member states will contribute to the achievement of the objectives set out in it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the european energy union, as i believe it is essential to develop and ensure the functioning of the energy market at european level. member states should work towards the creation of an integrated internal energy market, both in terms of regulation and interconnections; increase security of supply both through diversification of supply, for example by exploiting recent discoveries in the mediterranean basin, and through the development of inland sources; ensure energy efficiency and promote the development of renewables by integrating them into the market in a balanced way. a true energy union is the basis for european growth and reindustrialisation.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the report, even though it contains many positive elements on renewable energy and energy efficiency that stem largely from our work in the itre committee: in particular, for the first time, the concept that investment in energy efficiency is as important as investment in energy infrastructure is being accepted. the report calls for the hidden and externalized costs of energy to be calculated during impact assessments (the hidden costs of nuclear and fossil fuels are very high; those of renewables are virtually non-existent) and reiterates the binding 2030 targets of the european parliament on emissions, energy efficiency and renewables, while the eu council is content with non-binding and low-profile targets. but the negative elements dominate this report. in particular, too much space is given to nuclear and fossil fuels. the eu's energy security is wrongly conflated with the building of infrastructure to import fossil fuels, whereas it would only be achieved if the eu could produce most of the energy it needs: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the detriment of the environment.
in writing. ‒ ensuring a coherent and coherent response to energy security and climate change is our first objective, which is why i welcome the commission's initiative on the energy union. the european parliament, by its vote, has shown its consistency, reiterating the need to set binding environmental protection targets, also thanks to the boost given by cop21 in paris, and reaffirming the urgency of greater investment in low-carbon infrastructure and new technologies. the european energy and climate strategies must continue to be complementary and must therefore be combined with innovation and research for the benefit of consumers and businesses.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament today approved the report 'towards an energy union', which i followed as shadow rapporteur for the s&d group. i am very pleased that the report has been adopted by a large majority in the plenary and i think that the text represents a complete success for my group. i find the consolidated budget to be truly balanced where it focuses decisively on renewable sources and energy efficiency, relaunches the commitment to a fully integrated market while paying particular attention to carbon leakage and ensuring competitive and uniform prices in all member states. i particularly share the condemnation of the doubling of the nord stream gas pipeline, a project which seriously jeopardises the security of europe's energy supplies and isolates ukraine from the european gas distribution network.
in writing. the report is strongly pro-nuclear, but with considerable effort, we in the five star movement have succeeded in getting the final text to include more ambitious european targets for renewable energy and energy efficiency. the european parliament also deleted from the document, thanks to an amendment by the five star movement, the part of the text which provided eu funding for nuclear energy. the report has no legislative value. it is, however, an important policy document which will have an impact on the eu's energy choices and which affirms the will of the european parliament. i therefore voted against the report as a whole, because other content which we consider unacceptable has not been deleted. the text argues that renewable, fossil and nuclear sources should be considered and promoted in the same way under the concept of 'technological neutrality'. again, the problem of energy security and independence is solved by promoting the construction of large-scale infrastructure, such as gas pipelines, so that the eu is able to import fossil fuels from as many suppliers as possible. i do not share these concepts and i have expressed them in my vote.
in writing. ‒ the creation of an intensive electrification system for the industrial sector is essential and indispensable for a complete energy transition. the eriksson report aims at a european electricity grid by 2020 that is in line with recent technological developments in generation, consumption and finally transmission. the report focuses on the enormous potential of renewable energy and its undeniable benefits, but notes that the results achieved to date are conditioned by a strong disconnect in the organisational network. the interconnection of the european electricity grid will undoubtedly lead to an increase in the exploitation of these resources, the solution of the problem of structural discontinuity and the achievement of greater benefits. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the eriksson report is a positive one, based on the unanimous decision of the council in 2014 to achieve a 10% cross-border interconnectivity of electricity networks by 2020. i therefore intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ achieving the 10% electricity interconnection target is an important milestone for the broader european energy markets union project. the achievement of the energy union requires efficient and solidarity-based instruments, and better interconnection responds to the need to ensure the achievement of those common objectives from which we all benefit, a stronger and more resilient network. it is not just about cheap electricity and lower prices for businesses, but about strengthening a network that unlocks synergies capable of consolidating the internal system and removing imbalances. the interest in eliminating the various energy islands (poland, great britain, the iberian peninsula) is moving in this direction. a balanced approach, a transparent process and a commitment to maintaining high levels of ambition are essential in a project that aims to ensure stability, competitiveness and growth. i support this report, which combines the economic and geopolitical dimensions and sets out a strategy for strengthening the union.
in writing. ‒ most eu member states have outdated and poorly integrated internal electricity networks. the union is currently largely still to reach the modest 10% cross-border interconnection target of the europe 2020 document. a european electricity grid would mean a price reduction of at least eur 2 per mwh, security of supply close to 100%, a greater ability to withstand cyber or military attacks on the electricity grid (today the resilience to such attacks is too low) and other tangible benefits, such as reducing electricity price volatility for the benefit of citizens and the competitiveness of european industry and businesses in the global economy, together with an estimated savings for european consumers of between eur 12 and eur 40 billion per year by 2030. we therefore urge the european commission to encourage investment in the best available techniques which offer considerable financial benefits over the entire life cycle of the networks, save time and provide technological leadership in the long term, and to undertake a general review of the technical and management system of the european electricity network.
in writing. ‒ in october 2014, the council unanimously set a target of 10% cross-border electricity grid interconnectivity by 2020 (and 15% by 2030), in order to complete the internal energy market and improve energy security in the eu. this objective (political, not based on scientific grounds) is in itself acceptable. it should be said that the lack of interconnectivity really only concerns certain member states (basically the usual ones: the energy islands) to which priority will be given. despite the vote in favour, it is worth pointing out two concerns first: 1) the interconnectivity objective is seen as a pro-rhythm to the achievement of the energy union, which we oppose at its root (see the gróbarczyk report); 2) in general, eu energy policy is 'polluted' by climate policy: the model of 'energy austerity' pursued is an obstacle to reindustrialisation and hence to prospects for economic growth, but with zero environmental impact (in absolute terms, global co2 emissions will not decrease, whether or not co2 is a problem). i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on 'achieving 10% electricity interconnection - a european electricity grid ready for 2020', as i consider it strategic to achieve the 10% electricity interconnection target and to improve the functioning of the internal electricity market in the eu; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union's objectives and to monitor the implementation of the energy union's objectives. an integrated approach to the issue is essential in order to strengthen national networks in order to fully exploit the capacity of interconnections and to make the best use of existing interconnection lines and the capacity of existing national infrastructures. the frequent congestion of transmission networks can be associated with cross-border lines but also due to the weakness and obsolescence of internal networks and the limited availability of national networks.
in writing. ‒ the proper functioning of the internal energy market also depends on the interconnections that guarantee electricity security within the union, especially in crossborder areas most exposed to energy crises. having an interconnected network in europe is essential, as it allows for secure, sustainable and lower-cost energy. in 2002, the union set itself the target of achieving 10% energy interconnection by 2020: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. these are mostly countries that are more isolated from the single energy market. there have been several delays both due to the long authorisation procedures, especially for high voltage lines, and due to lack of funds. the latter difficulty could, however, be overcome by recourse to the connecting europe facility, a financial instrument which should, as requested by parliament, pay particular attention to projects aimed at addressing the most serious shortcomings in the current integrated electricity market. the report also calls on the commission to consider using the eib and other financial instruments to achieve the community objective. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure in question. parliament recognised the 10% interconnection target as an important step in the right direction and stressed that interconnectivity is one of the key preconditions for the completion of the internal market in electricity. parliament considered that particular attention should be given to projects addressing the most significant gaps in the integrated electricity market in the union. parliament also considered that the purely quantitative 10% target should not be isolated, because accessibility to interconnections and networks is also necessary to ensure that interconnection arrangements work in practice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to prepare a common european electricity grid by 2020. i am very close to the environmental and energy issues, and i am in favour of an optimized european energy system with renewable energies, greater energy efficiency and a sustainable energy mix leading to energy savings, and an internal energy market which allows energy to circulate freely. these conditions are important for the achievement of a stable and secure energy system. in particular, i believe that electricity interconnection is one of the key prerequisites for completing an integrated internal eu electricity market which, if well defined, will contribute to achieving the climate objectives that i particularly care about; in particular, it is a strategic principle that should lead to a more resilient and robust network, better able to respond to all forms of disruption and change. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it is important for the proper functioning of the internal energy market to improve electricity interconnection, by eliminating bottlenecks in the grid, building new transmission lines and developing new local smart grids. a fully integrated internal electricity market would increase security and independence from other countries, reducing electricity price volatility to the benefit of citizens and the competitiveness of european industry and businesses in the global economy.
in writing. ‒ the eriksson report gives an opinion on the achievement of the 10% minimum target for electricity interconnections proposed by the committee and seeks to form a position on this by placing it within the main axes of the european union's energy and infrastructure policy. the project of intensive electrification of our industrial system is essential for the energy transition, therefore for the fight against climate change and towards energy independence. it is essential to actively drive the evolution of the european electricity grid, making it intelligent, highly interconnected and open to technological developments occurring both on the generation side and on the consumption and transmission side itself. a network without a high degree of interconnection cannot fully exploit the potential offered by renewables. the essential problem with such a general policy objective, 'one size fits all', is that while it points in the right direction, it does not take into account the territorial, geographical, energy diversity of the member states. however, i think the report is good and therefore i shall vote in favour.
in writing. this report, which focuses on the commission communication 'achieving 10% electricity interconnection - a grid ready for 2020' is one of the main axes of the european union's energy and infrastructure policy. creating the optimal conditions to be able to fully electrify our industrial system is a key element towards the energy transition, decarbonisation and the fight against climate change. interconnection therefore appears to be crucial to allowing technological evolution and infrastructure choices that must create the conditions for the full exploitation of energy from renewable sources. however, interconnection projects must take account of spatial and geographical variables characterising the member states and should, in the selection of projects, have an approach which respects the sensitivities of the inhabitants of the places involved, as well as taking into account the results of environmental impact assessments. in essence, interconnections are possible, but not at any cost and above all by respecting the rules which are often trampled underfoot by the interests generated by the high costs of these projects. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because improving electricity interconnections will help to increase the security of energy supply and strengthen the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the report which unanimously set the target of 10% cross-border interconnectivity of the electricity grid by 2020 (and 15% by 2030). it should be noted that the lack of interconnectivity is really limited to certain member states (essentially the usual ones: the energy islands), to which priority will be given.
in writing. ‒ improving interconnections is a fundamental and indispensable step towards greater energy security and lower energy prices for european businesses and citizens. this is an essential element of the energy union, which we expect to make a major contribution to the economy and employment.
in writing. i have welcomed this own-initiative report, which in a complementary way to the energy union strategy recognises that electricity interconnection is one of the key prerequisites for completing an internal electricity market in the eu. the text we voted for sets an ambitious target, which will help to achieve important climate commitments, including the eu's commitment to become a leader in renewable energy, to improve the eu's geopolitical position by increasing energy security and independence, and to reduce energy isolation and the potential for disruption to energy systems.
in writing. the 10% interconnection target, to be achieved by 2020, is a further step towards completing the internal energy market. i have therefore decided to support mr eriksson's report. to date, several member states have not achieved the objective we set ourselves, but i agree with the rapporteur that interconnection objectives should be agreed by the regions and set on the basis of different parameters, taking into account different variables and situations.
in writing. ‒ the commission's strategy is welcomed as a positive step towards achieving the 10% electricity interconnection target and improving the functioning of the internal electricity market in the eu. electricity interconnection is one of the key prerequisites for completing an integrated internal market for electricity in the eu in order to achieve the long-term climate and energy isolation reduction objectives pursued by the eu. renewable energy, increased energy efficiency and an internal energy market are therefore important means of achieving a stable, secure and competitive energy system in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of mr eriksson's proposal, which recognises the 10% interconnection target as an important step as interconnectivity is one of the fundamental prerequisites for completing the internal electricity market. the report also stresses that the purely quantitative 10% target should not be isolated. in fact, ensuring that interconnectors work in practice requires accessibility for interconnections and networks.
in writing. ‒ while i stressed the greater efforts that the most peripheral european member states must make to achieve the 10% electricity interconnection target by 2020, and am certain of the support that europe will be able to give to these states in achieving this goal, i decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ energy infrastructure is one of the priorities of the european energy agenda. an interconnected european energy network is essential to ensure europe's energy security, to strengthen competition in the internal market, thereby making prices more competitive, and to help achieve the objectives that the european union has committed itself to achieve in terms of decarbonisation and climate policy. this communication examines how to achieve the 10% target for electricity interconnections by 2020. the objectives on which the text focuses are: improvement of the situation in the 12 member states with a level of interconnection of less than 10% (ireland, italy, romania, portugal, estonia, latvia, lithuania, united kingdom, spain, poland, cyprus and malta); projects under the trans-european energy networks (ten-e) regulation and the connecting europe facility (cef) which will contribute to the achievement of the interconnection objective; financial instruments to support electricity interconnection projects; modalities for strengthening regional cooperation. for all the reasons mentioned above, i voted in favour of this resolution and i hope that the interconnection of electricity markets will be a political priority for the european union to pursue at all levels in the years to come.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the achievement of the 10% electricity interconnection target in order to complete the path taken by the european union to create and develop an internal energy market. the creation of a european electronic network by 2020 will make it possible to achieve a competitive, efficient and secure energy system.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on electricity interconnection and the achievement of a european electricity grid by 2020. since 2002, the union has been committed to the achievement of a stable, independent, inclusive and transparent internal market in electricity in order to ensure security of supply, the use of renewable sources and the competitiveness of the electricity industry for the benefit of european citizens. a fully integrated internal market will facilitate trade and services in electricity by reducing price volatility, create jobs in a sustainable economy through investment in the best technologies, and help reduce energy dependency and isolation. however, i believe that a unitary 10% interconnection target risks being misleading and not appropriate to the different market dynamics or geographical situations of all member states. the objectives must not be set in a single word but must be based on the specific circumstances of each country. i think that regional cooperation is of fundamental importance as a means of achieving interconnection throughout europe.
in writing. ‒ electricity interconnections between member states are an essential project for europe's energy transition and the fight against climate change. an interconnected electricity grid that is open to technological evolution is essential to mitigate and compensate for the structural discontinuities of renewable energy. without this structure, we cannot fully exploit the potential of renewable energy. the report sets a target of at least 10% electrical interconnection. for us, 5 stars is a goal that is moving in the right direction, and that is why we voted in favour of it, even though it is a percentage that does not take into account the territorial, geographical and energy characteristics of the member states. the final text would have been more satisfactory if my amendments and those of my colleague mr borrelli had been adopted, which provided that the evaluation and quantitative objectives of interconnection projects were based on scientific evidence.
in writing. ‒ the 'progress microfinance' facility was approved as part of the europe 2020 strategy with the clear aim of facilitating access to micro-credit for the creation of a new business or the development of an existing one. the beneficiaries of this instrument are, however, the intermediaries. the eu provides guarantees and loans to several microcredit institutions, with the aim of widening their availability to grant loans and finance to micro-enterprises. through progress microfinance, the eu is delivering on its social and employment policy objectives by indirectly financing small businesses while also creating new jobs. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. i voted in favour because i believe that progress microfinance, in a time of crisis such as the present one, can be an important resource not only for small businesses but also for workers.
in writing. ‒ despite the fact that the colleague's report contains some shared insights, i do not agree with the inclusion of asylum seekers and migrants among the beneficiaries of the microfinance access facility. micro-credit should be designed primarily to support the entrepreneurship of european citizens, especially the most vulnerable groups, such as young people. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ progress is the microfinance instrument launched by the european union. its nature as an instrument of social policy is (and must remain) of higher priority than economic policy. progress is focused on target groups which have not received sufficient attention from the economic system: long-term unemployed, welfare recipients, migrants, people working in the informal economy or living in disadvantaged rural areas, and women. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. it is an effective instrument which is clearly superior to traditional social assistance systems because it enables beneficiaries to be activated, to be brought to a state of autonomy which reintegrates them into the socioeconomic context of their territory, thus lightening the assistance burdens of their country of origin, putting them back in play and improving their self-esteem and confidence in their own abilities. we must support this instrument and take it as a positive example to be promoted in the member states.
in writing. - i vote against it. the report contains indications which are entirely acceptable. unfortunately, it is littered with references to perfect gender equality (incomprehensible and discriminatory) and to refugees, asylum seekers and migrants, which tarnish its goodness. in particular, there is no justification for including illegal migrants (such as asylum seekers and migrants, unless proven otherwise) among the beneficiaries of the instrument.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the european progress microfinance facility. the recent financial crisis has shown how important it is to have financial instruments such as progress in place to create new businesses, promote employment and ensure that the unemployed, disadvantaged people and micro-enterprises have access to finance. microcredit can therefore be seen as a social policy instrument designed to offer a chance to those in a difficult social situation. however, as the report points out, the spread of progress remains limited in the european union. the commission and the member states should therefore set up contact points to promote awareness of this instrument among potential beneficiaries and citizens in general and to raise awareness of the existence of the instrument, the benefits it offers and the means of access, especially in peripheral regions. the report has emphasized these elements and i have therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. with the creation in 2010 of the progress microfinance facility with a total volume of eur 205 million, the european union has taken the positive effects on the local economy achieved in developing countries through the provision of microcredit to offer socially and economically disadvantaged people in europe the opportunity to start a business that provides them with a livelihood. progress is currently available in only 22 of the 28 member states, due to the different levels of development of european economies, market interest and legal framework. the progress microfinance facility has a social dimension and facilitates access to micro-credit for the creation or development of micro-enterprises. the facility does not directly finance micro-enterprises, but allows eu microfinance operators participating in the programme, the so-called intermediaries, to grant more loans due to the improved credit quality resulting from the possibility to refinance through progress.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because the creation of this instrument in 2010, with a total volume of eur 205 million, has led the eu to bring positive effects to developing countries by granting microcredit to socially and economically disadvantaged people. the facility facilitating access to microcredit for the creation or development of microenterprises is available in only 22 out of 28 member states. i think it is important that progress should focus on the target groups to which the economic system has not paid sufficient attention so far: unemployed, welfare recipients, immigrants, ethnic minorities, people working in the informal economy or living in disadvantaged rural areas. i think that in order to improve this instrument further, it is important that credit be granted in all 28 member states, that it should be possible to grant financial and personnel support for the development of a business plan, as well as the verification of the business idea and support in its implementation. i find all these points in the documentation, and that is why i feel i must vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ progress, launched in 2010, is a microfinance instrument through which the european union has taken the positive effects of microcredit in developing countries as a starting point for socially and economically disadvantaged people in europe. progress is first and foremost a social policy instrument, as it was created to give a chance to those who are in a difficult social situation, and only secondarily an economic policy instrument. i am in favour of the implementation of the european progress microfinance facility as i consider it important and effective for achieving the eu's social and employment objectives under the europe 2020 strategy. it will facilitate access to microcredit for the creation or development of microenterprises, thus providing a significant number of new jobs. progress also plays a major role in helping people to enter or re-enter the labour market, to unlock their entrepreneurial potential and to acquire new skills through training and support mentoring.
in writing. ‒ progress is a tool that allows microfinance operators in the union, the so-called intermediaries, to grant more loans by virtue of the improved credit quality, determined by the possibility of refinancing. it is an important and effective tool for achieving the eu's social and employment objectives under the europe 2020 strategy. in fact, newly created enterprises generate a significant number of new jobs. microenterprises create almost 85% of these jobs. there is a relatively high demand for microcredit from people who are unable to obtain a loan in the traditional banking sector, as they represent a category of beneficiaries associated with prohibitive costs for that sector. progress enables people to re-enter the labour market, unlock entrepreneurial potential, acquire new skills through supporting training and mentoring, and helps people to live independently and with dignity. for banks, microcredit is expensive and unprofitable, and its marketing is therefore unattractive. we have also asked for this tool to be encouraged, developed and made more public and more information about how to access it; the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. i'm all for it.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the european progress microfinance facility is to increase access to and availability of microfinance for those who have lost or are at risk of losing their jobs or who are having difficulty entering or re-entering the labour market, and to increase access to and availability of microfinance for microenterprises and the social economy. i voted in favour of the resolution because, in times of financial crisis, i believe that this instrument is of crucial importance for the creation of new businesses, the promotion of employment and the protection of the unemployed, the disadvantaged and access to finance for micro-enterprises.
in writing. ‒ progress has proved to be a useful tool for setting up and developing small businesses over the years, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i vote against because, despite sharing the policy on microcredit, this report has been exploited by including special references to asylum seekers and migrants.
in writing. i can only support the resolution on an important instrument such as progress for microfinance with my vote. i am convinced that it is our duty as members of the european parliament to support economic growth, development, social inclusion and new opportunities for young people and the most disadvantaged groups with all the means at our disposal. progress is all of this, a chance for those who had a micro-enterprise dream, but no access to the means to make it a reality. it is a good example that europe's primary commitment, especially in times of economic crisis, is to improve the lives of its citizens, to involve them and to increase employment.
in writing. the progress microfinance facility aims to facilitate access to microcredit for the creation or development of microenterprises. this instrument is perfectly suited to the need to improve credit quality, since, although it does not finance firms directly, it allows operators to grant more loans. its function is therefore twofold, since it will make a major contribution to the creation of many micro-enterprises and will facilitate access to microcredit for those already in existence. it is a fundamental tool in a difficult time, and i believe that facilitating small businesses can help them to get back on their feet after the crisis.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the implementation of the european progress microfinance facility. the objective of the instrument is to increase access to and availability of microfinance for people at risk of social exclusion or disadvantaged in terms of access to the credit market who wish to start or develop their own micro-enterprise. it is of paramount importance to have a financial instrument, such as progress, to create new businesses, promote employment and ensure access to finance for all categories of beneficiaries to whom the economic system has not paid adequate attention.
in writing. ‒ in 2010, the 'progress microfinance facility' was set up for a total of eur 205 million. microcredit has helped the economy in developing countries by giving them the opportunity to start businesses. the instrument does not directly finance micro-enterprises, but allows micro-finance operators in the union, the so-called intermediaries, to grant more loans by virtue of the improved credit quality resulting from the possibility to refinance themselves through progress. given the economic and social importance of this instrument, i am voting in favour of mr schulze's proposal.
in writing. ‒ the provision of microcredit has given europe's most deprived citizens the chance and opportunity to start an independent business that will guarantee them a decent life. i believe that europe must continue to work to unlock the hidden entrepreneurial potential of its citizens and to encourage innovation. for these reasons, i am speaking positively.
in writing. ‒ with the creation of the progress microfinance facility in 2010, the european union is offering socially and economically disadvantaged people the opportunity to start a business that offers them economic opportunities through the provision of microcredit. the european definition of microcredit should, however, be reconsidered and adapted to the current situation. the same applies to the maximum loan amount, currently set at eur 25 000, which in some member states of the union may not be sufficient. in addition, in all member states, non-bank entities should also be allowed to act as microcredit intermediaries. it should be possible to grant financial support under easi (european programme for employment and social innovation) for the assistance of experts in the development of a business plan, as well as for the verification of the business idea and the support in its implementation (training and mentoring). i voted in favour of these suggestions, which i hope will be taken into account by the council and the commission.
in writing. ‒ the progress microfinance facility is designed to help those who have difficulty accessing the credit market to obtain a loan of up to eur 25 000. progress, which receives union funds, does not directly finance entrepreneurs but allows certain eu microcredit providers (public or private banking institutions, non-bank-type bodies and non-profit microcredit providers) to increase credit activity by issuing guarantees, thus sharing the risk of loss. through this facility, those wishing to start a small-medium-sized business are guided and instructed by financial intermediaries, who, in addition to granting credit, provide specific technical assistance for each beneficiary. in this regard, provision has been made for the creation of a website and a database to disseminate information on how to access microcredit and on selected financial intermediaries, in order to enable a wider public to benefit from this instrument. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the proposal, given its many advantages.
in writing. ‒ the microfinance instrument in europe must be safeguarded and encouraged. the progress programme has proved its worth over the years and needs to be strengthened each year with an appropriate budget. the social approach and easy access to microcredit for the establishment and development of new businesses is commendable, but it should also be emphasized that this initiative allows for (re) integration into the labour market, the development of entrepreneurial potential, the acquisition of new skills through training and support for people to live in an autonomous and dignified way. throughout europe, social economy enterprises work to involve disadvantaged groups and restore dignity to the person, and we are reiterating our commitment to full employment in this report.
in writing. ‒ technical measures and multiannual plans are the most appropriate instruments for achieving the objective of maximum sustainable yield in the common fisheries policy. the aim of these measures is to avoid catching juvenile fish and other incidental catches which could cause damage to the marine environment. the key to the reform of the cfp is the differentiation of european legislation on a geographical basis, providing for rules in harmony with the specificities of places such as the baltic, the mediterranean and the atlantic. the presentation of some amendments stressed the need to simplify the measures and to maintain an approach based on respect for ecosystems. i voted in favour because i consider the protection of the marine environment and heritage to be a priority for european policies.
in writing. ‒ although the report tackles some very critical issues of the current common fisheries policy (cfp) in a precise way, the current system for managing fisheries remains overly bureaucratic to the detriment of operators. for these reasons i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report concerns the technical measures for implementing the cfp. the majority of our group's amendments have been adopted. in particular, we call for a sound scientific approach to improve conservation and sustainable exploitation of resources, we intend to minimise the impact on the marine environment, to fight against iuu fishing, to ensure support for fishermen, in particular for traditional and small-scale sustainable fishing practices, through training, innovation and research tools, and by involving all stakeholders in the decision-making process.
in writing. - i abstained. the resolution (not a legislative text) gives a ruthless picture of the complex regulatory framework underlying fishing in the eu; the heterogeneity of technical measures and multiannual management plans gives operators a very complicated system (especially in the mediterranean basin, which is a real problem) to deal with. while welcoming the references in the text to these critical issues, the desire for greater regionalisation of rules and the elimination of co-decision for measures of regional scope (which would apply instead to those common to the three basins), a position of abstention is recommended as there is no sufficient guarantee that these requests will be taken into account in the future in the reform of the cfp, also considering that, in the meantime, 'technical' obstacles aimed at (lacking) conservation objectives have severely penalized the sector.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report in favour of the new common fisheries policy (cfp) to simplify future technical measures and eliminate contradictions and redundancies in the current cfp. future technical measures should be part of a clearly structured legal framework and be based on sound scientific data subject to review. in addition, in order to facilitate the implementation of cfp rules and to improve the acceptance and compliance of cfp rules by the fisheries sector, it is necessary to involve fishermen more in the decision-making process, in particular in the advisory councils, and to offer them incentives such as support through the eu maritime and fisheries policy fund and other instruments for innovation and training. finally, i believe that technical measures should be reviewed in order to improve selectivity, minimise discards and the impact of fishing on the environment, and modernise control and fishing techniques through the sustainable use of innovative fishing gear.
in writing. ‒ technical measures and multiannual plans are the eu's most important instruments for fisheries management. the objective of technical measures is to avoid bycatch and impacts on the marine environment. some important amendments tabled by our delegation were incorporated in the final text. these include references to the importance of simplifying and regionalising technical measures which must always be consistent with the real objective of the technical measures regulation, namely to minimise incidental catches and impacts on the marine environment; the need for specific measures to improve selectivity and minimise bycatch by highlighting the problem of bycatch of cetaceans; the importance of the review of technical measures being carried out in accordance with the best available scientific advice and an ecosystem-based approach. my vote was in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. the european commission will present in january a proposal for a regulation on the revision of technical measures, which will be based on the need to adapt the existing regulatory framework to the objectives of the new common fisheries policy (cfp). the report in question precedes the commission proposal and contains precise indications and suggestions for future technical measures and multiannual plans for fisheries (conservation measures). the objective of the technical measures is to avoid catching juveniles and other incidental catches. these measures are now spread over more than 30 regulations and constitute a complex set of provisions which are often inconsistent and sometimes contradictory. the present report proposes a simplification and rationalisation of these measures, which should be set out in a clear legal framework and designed on the basis of sound scientific foundations. the commission's text on technical measures should therefore contain a series of general proposals applicable to the whole community fleet, to which specific measures for certain fishing areas, including the mediterranean sea, should be added.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr gabriel mato's report on the search for a new common fisheries policy and, consequently, for technical measures and multiannual plans in this field. the objectives of the 2013 cfp reform included achieving the maximum sustainable yield (msy) by applying an ecosystem-based approach. technical measures and multiannual plans, as conservation measures, are the main instruments for achieving these objectives. the 11 multiannual plans are designed to manage the main species of interest to fisheries. i think it is important to protect and safeguard the european fishing fleet with rules and reforms aimed at achieving the basic objectives of the sector. this fisheries sector is an important part of the european economy and must therefore be protected. i think the report is correct in the way it seeks to achieve its objectives and for this reason, and also in line with the general line of my political group, i support the rapporteur's text and vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i support the report by mr mato on a new structure for technical measures and multiannual plans. i am convinced that technical measures are needed to simplify and rationalise the fishing industry, with the aim of avoiding the catching of juveniles and other incidental catches in order to preserve the marine heritage: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. this will help to make future measures simple and clear in order to facilitate their understanding by fishermen, who should be more involved in the decision-making process. as far as possible, these measures should be adapted to the specificities of each fishery and each region.
in writing. ‒ following the reform of the common fisheries policy, the commission concluded a public consultation on a 'new framework of technical measures' in may 2014. technical measures and multiannual plans are the most important instruments we have for fisheries management. the results show a lack of consistency in the technical measures. the objective of technical measures is to avoid bycatch and impacts on the marine environment. in principle, the system is based on three regulations which follow a geographical logic (baltic, mediterranean and atlantic and other waters). the following were adopted in committee and incorporated in the final text by amendments: the importance of simplification and regionalisation of technical measures which must always be consistent with the real objective of the technical measures regulation; consistency with the objectives of the cfp and the marine strategy framework directive 2008/56/ec; the need for specific measures to improve selectivity and minimise bycatch by highlighting the problem of bycatch of cetaceans; the importance of the review of technical measures being carried out in accordance with the best available scientific advice and the ecosystem-based approach. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it meets the need to involve fisheries stakeholders more closely in the decision-making process and to highlight the specificities of each marine area.
in writing. ‒ this is only one resolution, but it has the merit of providing a ruthless snapshot of the complex regulatory framework underlying fishing activity in the eu. the sum of technical measures and multiannual management plans gives operators a very complicated system, especially in the mediterranean, where there will be the greatest criticality.
in writing. regionalization must ensure that technical measures are adapted to the needs of each fishing activity, ensuring the right degree of flexibility. one of the strengths of the new cfp is that it is based on innovation and research to improve selectivity and modernise fishing and control techniques. we are all aware of the importance of the fisheries sector in terms of employment. i therefore supported this report because of its positive characteristics of supporting and reviving the sector, and also because through new fishing techniques, which are based on increasingly innovative methods, it will contribute to reducing the impact on the environment.
in writing. ‒ the 2013 reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) aimed to achieve maximum sustainable yield (msy) by applying an ecosystem-based approach. the main instruments for achieving this are conservation instruments such as technical measures and multiannual plans. given their procedural complexity, i support the position expressed by mr mato in the report under comment, which provides for a simplification and a clearer approach to technical measures, as well as a pragmatic solution to make rapid progress on the multiannual plans in the light of the case law of the court of justice of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i reiterate my position on simplifying the rules on technical measures for fisheries. i hope that progress can be made soon on the institutional unblocking of the files on the multiannual plans and i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ technical measures and multiannual plans are the main instruments for achieving the objectives of the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp). it is of great importance that technical measures are rationalised, simplified and adapted to make them easier for fishermen to understand and to adapt to the specificities of each fishing activity and each region (regionalisation). it is necessary to involve fishermen more and more effectively in the decision-making process and to ensure that incentives are created to facilitate its implementation. the multiannual plans, on the other hand, should be adopted as soon as possible to avoid the long-term measures being regulated by the discard plans which, by their nature, must include only provisional measures. i voted in favour of the european co-legislators finding a pragmatic solution to make rapid progress on the multiannual plans and technical measures for a new reform of the cfp.
in writing. ‒ technical measures and multiannual plans are essential tools to ensure the conservation and sustainable management of fish stocks and marine ecosystems. the report adopted today represents the european parliament's position in view of the next revision proposal to be presented by the european commission in early 2016. i hope that in the future regulatory framework due account will be taken of the specific characteristics of each sea basin and in particular of the mediterranean sea, whose fish resources are also shared with third countries whose conservation standards are very different from those of europe. multiannual plans and technical measures will be a key element in putting the principle of regionalisation into practice, in order to adapt the rules to the specificities of each area and each fishery, simplifying and making them easier to implement for fishermen and the industry. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report, pending further discussion of the new legislative proposals in the coming months.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard several members say that some member states have failed to fulfil their obligation to protect and defend their external borders and are refusing the help offered to them by the european union. i speak as an italian, and italy is one of the countries which has suffered most from the flows of migrants, and has had difficulties in dealing with the protection of its external borders. so, in that light, we welcome this legislative proposal. i agree that external borders are common borders and that it is right to have a common response to the protection of external borders, but there are a number of questions i have and a number of doubts about this legislative proposal. first of all: why the need for a new agency? commissioner avramopoulos, i would like you to give me an answer, why a new agency and not to strengthen, use already frontex, the existing agency? what role will this agency play, as a mere coordinator? we are talking about strengthening cooperation and information exchange, what kind of information? will there be another database? i would like you to clarify these points.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a coast guard to control the frontiers is a proposal for a common assumption of european responsibility and is therefore a good thing for us, because it says that the frontiers belong to everyone and not to this or that nation, to this or that country. but i have some concerns, commissioner, not so much because of the national sovereignty that would be affected, but also because, let us be frank, national sovereignty, which is so much in vogue today, is an obstacle to the choices that europe has to make. but because i think that immigration policy, as my colleagues from moraes to the others have said, is one, it is all-encompassing. and so, either we do it all together, but if we do only part of it, we risk exploding the contradictions, it is a policy that concerns security, the control of those who enter europe, certainty, the knowledge of those who enter, but also welcome, relocation, otherwise it happens that these contradictions are paid for by one country, perhaps the one that has done the most, and not the others. i am therefore very frank with you, commissioner, that either we do all these operations together, in due time - the timekeeper is right - or else something is wrong. it is the same with the hot spots that my country is making and is making with great effort, but they require that all the steps go in series, otherwise here too, those who have done a lot risk being penalized and others who have done nothing allow themselves to take the side of the judges. one last thing, dublin. i'm going to take a look. it is clear to everyone that geography cannot decide where a refugee will be placed, it must be europe's policy of solidarity. and on the subject of force, let me say a word, be careful with the use of force. it takes responsibility, it takes care, it takes caution. these are often people who have been violated and who don't need too much, let's say, hard-trained strength.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it has been exactly seven months since the publication of the european agenda on immigration. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the commissioner for the work he is doing. border management was one of the four pillars for better management of migration. this proposal is therefore not unexpected and once the relevant committees have examined it, we will be able to give our opinion after a thorough analysis. as we have seen so far, this new european border and coast guard agency will verify that the rules of integrated border management are being respected. it will be able to act autonomously to prevent crisis situations and to intervene immediately at the external borders with urgent action on the ground to help the member state. so more europe. a real revolution, as commissioner avramopoulos has said, but i believe that this revolution will only happen if this new office works in respect of the fundamental rights and freedoms of migrants and within an overall strategy between the office and the member state and where the roles must be defined and shared between these two institutions. i would like to conclude by saying that we will not accept any policy of closure to restore a fortress europe with impassable borders. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i would like to ask mrs kyenge, in relation to what she said, whether she really believes that this is the solution that europe needs. i mean, if you're going to get into a business, let's say, that competitive, is this the best solution? and then i also wanted to ask you if perhaps the best solution is not the one proposed by donald trump in the united states to no longer allow muslims, in this case, into the european union.
answer to a blue-card question. i would have been happy to answer the question, but i do not respond to provocations. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i very much appreciated the speeches by commissioners timmermans and avramopoulos and the initiatives that have been put forward on the problem of external border control and returns, which is a major part of the credibility of europe as a whole. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that the european council will speak the same language as the commission and parliament have now, which has not actually happened.
in writing. i believe that the proposal presented today by the european commission adequately reflects the need to protect the free movement of our citizens through a renewed efficiency in the management of our external borders. it was a gesture especially in relation to countries which, like italy, are facing migratory pressure of epochal proportions. the establishment of a european border guard will ensure coordination which will improve the level of security of our citizens. i welcome the intention to set up a european return office, which i hope will work properly to return third-country nationals who are staying irregularly within our borders. if we are to manage the problem of migration properly, we must systematically distinguish between those who are entitled to refugee status and economic migrants. i hope that this proposal will not be confused with an attempt to strip the states of their sovereignty but rather as a concrete manifestation of burden-sharing at community level.
acting president of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, allow me first of all to apologize to the luxembourg minister for the environment, mrs dieschbourg, who would have liked to be with you, but is already in brussels for the preparations of tomorrow's environment council. ladies and gentlemen, even three days after the end of the cop 21 which i had the good fortune to attend, with our minister of the environment, i am still struggling to fully realize the miracle of paris. i think you will agree with me that this agreement is indeed a historic achievement. this is the first time we've adopted a universal climate agreement that contains the architecture needed to keep global warming well below 2 degrees celsius and in which every country in the world is committed to doing their part. such an agreement is the result of an unprecedented political commitment to tackle the challenge of climate change. i would like to commend the french presidency of the conference of the parties for its exceptional commitment. throughout the year, it has pushed the climate agenda through all the chambers, and with great patience, impeccable impartiality and great control of the situation during the cop, it has succeeded in presenting an agreement which not only has consensus but is also ambitious, sustainable, dynamic and legally binding. of course, the french presidency was able to complete its work thanks to the willingness of the parties to move forward. the european union and its member states have always led the way by adopting and defending an ambitious position. i take this opportunity to thank the european parliament for its own commitment and support in this matter, calling for an ambitious agreement to phase out global co2 emissions by 2050 or shortly thereafter. the other major emitters, such as china, india and the united states, have also shown a great willingness to make the agreement work, as have, of course, countless non-governmental actors, such as cities and municipalities in some parts of the economic world and, of course, ngos. i should also like to highlight the performance of the european union in paris. we have spoken with one voice from start to finish, and this has made us an indispensable partner in the negotiations. several key features of the agreement, such as the ambition mechanism, were developed from concepts put forward by the european union. our influence has been real because we have been able to forge new alliances, such as the one that gave rise to the high ambition coalition, because we have been able to present compromise solutions linking sometimes very divergent positions. although the agreement is still very recent and more detailed analyses of it still need to be developed, i would like to briefly describe the main points. first, it was decided in paris that global warming must be kept well below 2 degrees and that we must strive to limit it to 1.5 degrees. the paris agreement specifies that this implies that peak emissions must occur as soon as possible and that climate neutrality must be achieved in the second half of this century. secondly, the paris agreement specifies that national emission reduction contributions indcs will be at the heart of the paris agreement. all parties will have to highlight their contributions, the vast majority have already done so, and they will have to maintain them by revising them upwards every five years. thirdly, the paris agreement contains very important elements of solidarity for developing countries, and especially for the poorest and most vulnerable among them, on adaptation, loss and damage, capacity building and, of course, also financing. on finance, we have committed ourselves as developed countries to a concrete roadmap to reach $100 billion by 2020. in addition, a new, more ambitious target will have to be set by 2025 at the latest. finally, we agreed in paris on a transparency framework that will create the necessary confidence that all countries will meet their commitments. the paris agreement, as you can see, is therefore a big step forward. it is the first global climate agreement and sends a very strong signal to all non-governmental actors, whether local authorities, businesses or civil society, whose growing commitment i welcome - a signal that this transition to a low-carbon economy is becoming a must. but let us not forget that the paris agreement is only a framework which has yet to be defined and clarified in several respects. so there's a lot of work to be done. this is the task we will have to tackle in the months and years ahead, before the agreement enters into force in 2020.
member of the commission.– madam president, this is a historic moment. thanks, to a great extent, to the efforts of the european union, the world has its first ever universal, legally binding global climate deal. this is a new chapter in global climate governance as we move from action by few to action by all. the paris agreement is important on many levels: first of all, in order to be efficient in our fight against climate change. but more generally, the deal reached over the weekend is a major win for the whole international community. it shows that multilateralism can still work when faced with a truly global challenge. this is a vital lesson for the years ahead of us. europe has gone through turbulent times over the last few years. today, let me assure you of one thing: we should all be proud of europe. paris is the culmination of europe’s efforts for a global agreement on climate change. after many years of relentless efforts, we got a deal. and not just any deal: the paris agreement is ambitious and balanced, and it includes our key objectives. i would like to thank the members of the european parliament delegation to cop21 – led by delegation chair giovanni la via and vice-chair matthias groote – for their invaluable support throughout the conference. i must also pay tribute to the french presidency of cop21, and the remarkable way in which they managed a very delicate and challenging process. the cooperation between member states, ministers, the european parliament delegation and my fellow commissioners was excellent throughout the negotiations. the european union spoke always with a single voice under the excellent steering of the luxembourg presidency. when we do so, we succeed. we were instrumental as ambitious bridge builders, and we were instrumental in building a broad coalition of developed and developing countries in favour of high ambition – the high ambition coalition – which was critical in securing the global deal. all of a sudden, the debate was not about developed versus developing, as it was in copenhagen. it was about the willing versus the unwilling. the result in paris will decisively accelerate the transition from fossil to clean fuels. this trend is now irreversible. when i came to this house last october on the occasion of the debate on the pargneaux report, i made it clear that paris had to deliver an ambitious, robust and legally binding global agreement which puts the world on track to limit global warming to below 2°c. i set out then my three ‘essentials’ for a successful outcome: first, a long-term goal; second, a robust review cycle with the flexibility to strengthen ambition over time; and third, strong transparency and accountability rules. after two weeks of intense and sometimes exhausting negotiations, the paris agreement delivers on all these key essentials. for the first time ever in a legal agreement, we reaffirmed our long-term goal to prevent the adverse effects of climate change. governments agreed to the goal of keeping the increase in global average temperature to ‘well below’ 2°c above pre-industrial levels. the commission also welcomes the recognition in the agreement of the need to pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°c, a point which was crucial for many of our partners in our progressive alliance. the qualitative long-term goal aims for emissions to peak as soon as possible, with rapid reductions thereafter, towards achieving a balance between anthropogenic emissions by sources and removal by sinks of greenhouse gases in the second half of the century. the direction of travel has been set. the agreement sends a clear signal to investors, businesses and policy makers that the global transition to clean energy is here to stay. as i said during the conference, you can have the best long-term target in the world, but without a robust revision mechanism raising the level of ambition over time, you will never achieve it. that is why the european union has always insisted on a five-year review cycle. in paris, we agreed to come back every five years, to take stock, to look at the latest science, and to ramp up our commitments accordingly. we also fought hard for strong transparency and accountability rules. we know these are the foundations of a credible international regime. without multilaterally agreed rules, there will be no trust or confidence that countries will deliver on their commitments. under the paris agreement, countries have a legally binding obligation to pursue domestic mitigation measures with a view to achieving their contributions. an enhanced transparency and accountability system is also set up, including the submission by all countries, every two years, of greenhouse gas inventories, an expert review and a facilitative, multilateral consideration of progress. these elements fully correspond with the european union’s priorities and ensure a fit-for-purpose transparency and accountability framework for emission reduction commitments. the european parliament has consistently recognised climate finance as a key issue in these negotiations. i am proud that the paris agreement includes a solidarity package which contains provisions on climate finance and on addressing needs linked to adaptation and to loss and damage. developed countries will continue with their collective mobilisation goal of usd 100 billion per year until 2025, when a new collective goal will be set. under all circumstances, the european union is committed to enhancing its level of support.other countries are encouraged to provide financial support. so, in addition to all countries taking on commitments to reduce emissions, there is also no longer a strict division between developed and developing countries with regard to the provision of public finance. we must recognise this historic moment. but the hard work has just begun. today we may celebrate. tomorrow we must act. in early 2016, the commission will work on implementing the paris agreement in the european union, and i look forward to working with the european parliament on this. the commission will also continue its work to implement the 2030 climate and energy framework. following this summer’s legislative proposal for the revision of the european union emissions trading system for the post-2020 period, the next step is to address the sectors not covered by the ets. the commission will also make legislative proposals on effort-sharing, land use, land use change and forestry (lulucf). we will also bring forward a communication on decarbonising the transport sector. also, our upcoming energy proposals – for renewables, market design and energy efficiency – will play an important role in making the energy market cleaner and more efficient. our wider climate diplomacy efforts will not stop. we will embark on further discussions and negotiations with our international partners on the detailed aspects of the paris agreement. it is crucial to build on the momentum of this historic agreement through our continued cooperation with stakeholders and with other countries on the implementation of indcs, including capacity building for monitoring and reporting. when we meet again in morocco, in a year’s time, we should all be able to report tangible progress. this is what the world expects from us. dear members, paris is also a success for this parliament. you have been a key player over the years in steering debate across europe and putting in place the right legislation. i count on your continued support in the future.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner arias cañete, minister gira, 12 december 2015 will be remembered by all as a very important date, which marked a turning point in the history of mankind. i would like to thank commissioner arias cañete and minister carole dieschbourg for their work and commitment during the negotiations. their presence, together with that of the colleagues from the european parliament in the delegation which i had the honour to chair, led us to the important result achieved thanks to the ambitious leadership of the european union. it is an agreement of historic importance, because for the first time all the member states of the cop have admitted the existence of a global problem to which a comprehensive solution must be found by all, with shared sacrifices and certainly in the perspective of a better world. the agreement seemed almost impossible and i believe it represents the best possible balance between the different needs of the developed and developing countries, setting out an ambitious path which is to last until the end of the century with five-yearly reviews. it is also a historic moment because the agreement was reached in paris, in europe, in the same city that had been mortally wounded by deadly bombings a few days earlier. today, as president fabius also said, this agreement serves a great cause, in addition to the environmental one. it represents politics with a capital "p", politics that is ethically oriented towards the common good. it concerns public health, the fight against poverty, food security and, finally, peace. peace for us, for our children, for the planet.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if we read the comments made over the last two or three days, from saturday to today, we see that we are in a swing, on the one hand the enthusiasm for an agreement which is described as a historic and extremely positive one, on the other hand there are those who say that instead there has been a failure and a profound disappointment. the truth is probably in the middle as usual and anyway it's a historic agreement if nothing else because we have put around a table 195 different countries that have recognized a problem and that have found the commitment and the effort to try to solve this problem. we have set ourselves a goal of staying well below 2 degrees celsius, aiming for 1.5 degrees celsius if possible. we were happy with this goal and we hailed it as a very ambitious goal especially considering that the current indcs take us to 2.7 degrees, so we really have a lot of work to do. but then, in the next article, we will read how we reach this goal. we get there by peaking emissions "as soon as possible", the earliest possible, which is a formula that says nothing, could be in ten years or in twenty years or in thirty years and yet we read that the word decarbonisation disappears. a lot of people talk about a carbon-free market. the word decarbonisation has disappeared and we are talking about balancing anthropogenic emissions and removing greenhouse gases, that is, we are relying on a technology that we do not yet know well, that is far from coming because we cannot admit the guilt that we are not able at the moment to stop our carbon emissions. so, positive and negative together, there's a lot of work to do. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue-card question. it means that they can be achieved, but in a different way than we all here wish. we want to get away from coal-fired and fossil-fuel-fired energy and get there with green energy. if we drop the word decarbonization, it means that we get there by going through an indirect route, that is, by going anyway to produce co2 and taking it away somehow to put it somewhere else. this is not the way.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have called this agreement a historic agreement, we have called it an ambitious agreement, and i would just like to point out that dependence on fossil fuels in the world energy system has produced 84% of greenhouse gas emissions. so if we really want to save the planet, we have to first of all abolish all those fossil subsidies that are drugging the energy market and preventing a real transition to renewables. in europe, more than €330 billion was subsidised in 2015. in the world, we are at the astronomical figure of 5,300 billion euros, which is more than what is spent worldwide in a year on health. australia, canada, france, germany, japan, the united kingdom, the united states and italy all subsidize oil, gas and coal at the expense of their citizens; 80 billion euros every year, while their commitment to the green climate fund is only 2 billion dollars a year. so, commissioner cañete, the only real christmas present you should have given us this year was to abolish the subsidies for fossil fuels, but i realise that the santa claus fairy tale is just a fairy tale.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with those who say that in paris we may not have saved the planet, but we have saved the possibility of saving the planet, and that is enough. it is a realistic and even a little rigorous assessment of those who put on the balance sheet what has been done, the shared responsibility of the countries of the world, industrialized and not, and on the other balance sheet what is missing, the dates and the legal constraints. i mean, we've given ourselves a chance, and now we have to make that chance a reality, a real possibility. we must, in short, translate declarations into concrete, binding and rigorous commitments. this is the result and fruit of europe's many efforts and that is why europe must continue to carry that flag, now more than ever. the european union is responsible for only 10% of emissions, but as the world's leading power it can do much, much more. europe is a trading power, a market of producers and consumers, which sets laws and standards, can influence trade agreements, with strict environmental standards. in short, it can take the new model that builds competitiveness and sustainability together on the road to energy transition.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, thank you for the work you have done and allow me to thank you also in the light of the controversy. many of those who had accompanied his appointment with sometimes rather capricious controversy, now thank him for the work he is doing. this shows that work does cut down on some of the time wasted, so thank you for that. the work done in paris is an important signal. i do not want to point out the controversy, even in this case, that not everyone shares the scientific basis on which that result was built. that is a good result and it is there and it shows that countries can address important challenges. well, i'll give you a side challenge to give strength to this won challenge. the undisciplined countries - we are discussing the possible recognition of china's market economy status - the undisciplined countries are being put in a position to accept this discipline, so that our industrial and labour tradition is safeguarded in addition to the environment. the commission can do that, and parliament is sharing a strong position on this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the paris agreement sends a clear signal: the fossil fuel era is coming to an end and the development of our society will have to be based on renewable sources and energy efficiency. perhaps the most important achievement of paris is that almost all countries, including emerging economies and developing countries, have been included in the global economic conversion plan with the ambitious goal of holding the temperature rise to within 1.5 degrees. this is even more impressive when you consider that in previous climate agreements only developed countries committed to reducing emissions. the agreement reached in paris takes up many of the positions contained in the action of this parliament and europe as a whole is the winner. however, much remains to be done. the agreement merely recommends that states behave in a virtuous manner, but does not provide for binding mechanisms and sanctions at international level. the next step will therefore be to arrive at a new legal status for the agreements with binding commitments and deadlines, with the corresponding sanctions.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i would like to thank you again, mr president, for the way you have conducted the debate, and i think you are the best person to have done so, and i would like to thank you for the way you have conducted the debate. i would like to ask my colleague, i agree with what she said, but would she be in favour, as another colleague has already said, of those in europe who do not follow the agreements being sanctioned in such a way that instead of giving aid when they ask for it, the money is withheld and this money can be invested in improving the system?
in writing. i would first like to thank commissioner arias cañete and minister carole dieschbourg and the colleagues in parliament who participated in the negotiations for the work they have done. i think the final agreement at the cop21 climate conference is a good agreement and a good starting point, especially because for the first time the agreement was signed unanimously by all 195 countries present, including the united states, india and china, the three largest emitters of co2 in the world, who sat together at the same table admitting that there is a global problem. it is an ambitious agreement, especially in terms of the commitment and effort to try to keep the temperature rise below 2 degrees compared to the pre-industrial era, aiming, if possible, even at 1.5 degrees. what i want to stress, however, is that this agreement is, as i have said, only a starting point and that much remains to be done in the coming years, and that requires the commitment of all and an ever greater sharing of responsibility by all the actors involved.
member of the commission.– mr president, i am here on behalf of my dear colleague pierre moscovici to express the commission’s positions on this specific subject. once again, parliament is making its position on tax transparency very clear. i would particularly like to thank the rapporteurs, but also everyone else who has contributed to the drafting of this excellent report. it is rich in proposals and recommendations that will assist the commission in moving forward on this subject of common interest. like you, the commission wants transparent, fair and modern taxation to become the norm in the european union. the commission has already taken firm steps this year to address aggressive tax planning, but we need to advance further and faster. that is why the commission will, at the beginning of next year, present strong measures to combat tax fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning within the european union. the package which the commission will present will be comprehensive. it will include both legislative and non-legislative initiatives. it will address both internal eu aspects and external aspects – it will contain an external strategy towards third countries. it will also include measures stemming not just from the discussions that have taken place in the eu but also internationally. for all these measures, the commission counts on the active support of this parliament. let me now come back to the main recommendations of the report. first of all, i would like to assure you that the commission is maintaining the pace on the subject of country-by-country reporting. for us, the best way forward is to complete the impact assessment which is planned for the first quarter of 2016. we will then have the necessary data so as to be able to make appropriate proposals to the co-legislators. the commission also wants to relaunch and make rapid progress on the common consolidated corporate tax base project (ccctb). in 2016 we intend to propose a two-step approach so that member states reach an agreement as soon as possible. as a first step, member states should agree on a common tax base. the consolidation would follow as a second step. i would like to stress again: the commission remains fully committed to consolidation, but we want to overcome the current prolonged stalemate. pending the adoption and implementation of the ccctb, the measures included in the oecd/g20 beps package should be implemented in the eu rapidly and in a coordinated way. what we want to avoid at all costs is a patchwork of 28 national approaches to implementing the beps recommendations. a coordinated european approach towards the beps package is therefore essential. as regards parliament’s recommendations on transfer pricing, i would like to stress that the joint transfer pricing forum of the eu is currently looking into the most coherent and effective implementation within the eu of the oecd guidelines. this debate, as you know, also concerns the commission’s own internal instruments. i am thinking first of the european semester. the commission is, of course, ready to continue to use all the instruments at its disposal to combat tax evasion, including in the framework of the european semester. you are also aware of our views on state aid. firstly, the commission is willing to provide further guidance in the medium term to member states and market participants on the application of state aid rules to the tax planning practices of companies. secondly, however, to do this, the commission first needs to close a sufficient number of cases so as to be able to assess on that basis what form of guidance would provide the necessary clarity for both member states and market players. thirdly, as regards the rules for recovery of state aid, these rules are based on the longstanding jurisprudence of the court of justice of the european union. a fairer distribution of tax revenues amongst member states is a discussion that goes beyond the issue of state aid. the commission will participate in this debate of course, bringing all relevant services into the discussion. in this way, dear colleagues, the european parliament has a crucial role to play in maintaining political pressure and in supporting the action of the commission in the field of taxation. the commission, of course, counts on your support in all aspects.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking the two rapporteurs and the co-rapporteurs for their work. the committee on industry sees this as a very interesting prospect. we have, as the rapporteurs have said, a main objective, namely to ensure that in europe the small ones who cannot afford the luxury of fiscal tourism, which the big ones can afford, are put in a position to fight on equal terms in a mature market. you have to pay the right taxes and pay them all. we have 28 different tax systems and here the conditions are being created so that through certain instruments, such as the consolidated tax base, which is rightly called, it will be possible to make a gradual move towards a european tax system compatible with european economic development, so that europe can grow and there is a welfare state that meets the needs of our citizens.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr balczó, since you have rightly attacked the absence of mr gramegna from this chamber, i wonder why we do not give political responsibility in this report to the luxembourg government and to mr juncker, who has been the politician who has supported these elusive policies for more than 15 years. if we do not give political responsibility to the states which are pursuing elusive policies, we shall never be able to solve the problem. so you agree to put juncker's name in this report?
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tax justice is a subject that is very much on the minds of europeans and i have worked hard with many colleagues in the committee on taxation to try to investigate this scandal that broke out last year, which saw juncker at the centre of this practice that for many years, for more than 18 years, luxembourg has put in place under its presidency and has carried on these practices to charge up to less than 1% of taxes to multinationals that were and still are entering with a red carpet inside the luxembourg ministry of finance. and so if we do not give a political responsibility in these relations, saying which countries are responsible, juncker for example, dijsselbloem, who also has a political responsibility, since the netherlands is another country that does not respect these practices of good manners that should be between states, and so my fear is that some european governments have no intention of changing the rules. and there are some very interesting statements that have been made recently, for example by gramegna, who complained that the european rules on state aid did not give certainty to business. i mean, what business do companies have in luxembourg? we all know that businesses do business in luxembourg and so, although there are many interesting things that we share in this report, from public country by country reporting to automatic exchange of information, if we do not give political responsibility to these people and stop supporting them in the presidency of this european commission and the europeans we will never have any sure measures against tax evasion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as you know, in recent years certain negative phenomena have emerged in europe. the first is now clear: without tax harmonization there is no growth policy worthy of the name. not only that, but the lack of loyalty in the tax behaviour of companies usually penalises the smaller ones, that is, the most active and stimulating part of our way of producing. at the same time, unfair competition has taken hold between states and between companies, because if companies, instead of investing in research and innovation of products and processes, go looking for the place where they pay less tax, we will never be competitive in the global system. for this reason the recommendations contained in the legislative initiative report are very important. we need a common base so that taxes are paid in the same way because of the characteristics of the enterprise. we need a country-by-country reporting system so that everything is transparent and taxes are paid where wealth is produced.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a context of lack of investment and growth, a system of community rules can only be a real safeguard for the economic and financial health of the union if it requires transparency, coordination and convergence in corporate tax policies. the commission notes that the tax rulings were issued in the form of a tax ruling, which was issued by the tax administration of luxembourg on the basis of a ruling by the tax administration of luxembourg. i agree with the report and the recommendations it contains, particularly the one on the mandatory notification of new tax measures and the extension of automatic exchange of information to all rulings. there is also an urgent need for a common and stringent definition of 'tax havens' and an adjustment of the definition of 'stable corporate organisation' to help reduce market volatility and increase business confidence.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mr belder on this ambitious and candid report on the subject of denied human rights, the oppression of the uyghur and tibetan ethnic minorities, crushed by the policy of forced 'chinisation', the censorship and repression of political, civil and religious freedoms, and the barbarity of the thousands of death sentences handed down every year. the report certainly fails to place confidence in the juncker plan and in institutions such as the international monetary fund, which have often adopted failed and at least ambiguous policies. i would also like to see more determination in demanding that europe carve out its own political actions for its own benefit, detaching itself from washington's stifling umbilical cord. but the real test will be to move from the noble words to concrete political decisions. rather than proposing the absurd, suicidal and unacceptable recognition of china as a free market economy, the commission has a political and moral duty to demand genuine reciprocity, conditionality and respect for universal human rights. this is the union we want, not the strong with the weak and the weak with the strong.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the figure of 46 billion dollars allocated by china to the silk road fund should make us all reflect on the geo-economic prospects of the changes and developments under way which cannot but have a strong impact on the european union. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which is a very important one, and that it is also very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which is a very important one. we turn the page, we talk about what china is doing, ties with new countries, about 60, including even iran, turkey, serbia, that they need to source precious metals for their industrial production. it's a great country in transition. but what is europe's policy towards china? of course, we would like to hear from the high representative who does not honour us with his presence. it's not really clear. on the one hand, the european union is not saying a clear 'no' to the recognition of china as a market economy, and that is very good for now, i would say, but on the other hand it is taking a long time to play an active role in the silk road project, which, as an italian, i would like to point out, interests me very much, not only symbolically but because the 'terminus ad quem' to which the silk road reaches is in our country and is a great historical reminder. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the relationship between the european union and china is of fundamental importance in the overall context of our external action, which is bound to grow in the coming years and for which we should be pleased. on international trade, the european union is discussing the bilateral investment and geographical indications negotiations with china and we note with satisfaction the efforts being made by both sides to conclude a far-reaching agreement. we are now calling for even greater commitment to a rapid conclusion of both negotiations. however, any good friendship, such as the existing and future friendship between the european union and china, is based on certain elements which are essential for strengthening the bond, and that is why we believe it is important to ask that all possible efforts be made to find a constructive solution to the question of the recognition of the status of a market economy, aware of the heavy impact this could have on the community's production system and the world of work. the rules must be the same between the two partners, and we think it is fair to point out that they do not exist at present. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is quite clear how important relations between the european union and china are, a country of enormous size, with growing numbers and potential, but also an increasingly active player on the world stage. we therefore hope that this role will reinforce china's political and social responsibility to make an effective and positive contribution to the world's détente, to the resolution of crises, wars and conflicts, to the great challenges of migration and sustainability and security. but china's economic weight means that china must increasingly accept and assume the very rules of the world economy, completing economic reform, including workers' rights. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. on the industrial and commercial side, we must recognize and we must stress and regret that european companies in the chinese market face obstacles, barriers and discrimination which are not appropriate in an economy which aspires to be a market economy. we therefore believe that the recognition of the status of a market economy for europe, on which he is due to give his opinion shortly, is unfair, undeserved and certainly not from...
member of the commission.– madam president, human suffering has reached levels not seen before. as mr guerrero salom said, 100 million people depend on humanitarian assistance. 60 million people have been forced to flee their homes, half of them children. these numbers are simply shocking. that is why the world humanitarian summit is such an important and timely initiative to restore humanity to the centre of political decision-making, and to improve the way in which we help people in humanitarian crises. we need the summit to address the efficiency and delivery of humanitarian aid. but we also need the summit to enable that aid to be delivered. therefore, it is crucial that it addresses the increasing violation of international humanitarian law. that is a personal priority for me, and it will require political commitment from leaders at the summit. let us be realistic. we need more than humanitarians to achieve solutions to the underlying problems. humanitarians cannot – and should not – carry the whole burden alone. humanitarian aid can only be a short-term solution. it does not prevent or end conflicts. it does not generate social or economic progress. this is most evident in the worst humanitarian crisis of our times: the syrian crisis. as long as a political solution is not reached, as long as syrian people do not get basic social opportunities, our humanitarian assistance to syria and its neighbouring countries will never be enough. the fact that the summit is taking place in istanbul is by itself very significant. istanbul has a strong symbolic meaning. it is a city bringing together continents, cultures and religions and it should become a symbol of bringing together humanitarian, political, development and environmental actors to better serve people in humanitarian crises. and it needs to reach beyond traditional humanitarian actors, to bring on board the private sector. to achieve this, all world leaders must be ready to make concrete commitments in istanbul at the highest political level. the next six months will be critical in order to elevate the summit to its rightful place. my personal commitment is to engage with partners around the world ahead of the summit. i will encourage eu member states to do the same. the european parliament clearly has a role to play, too. i would like to thank the members of this chamber for their interest and involvement in the discussions on the summit. in particular, i would like to thank mr guerrero salom for his personal leadership, especially on the european parliament’s report that will be discussed in a moment. the commission set out its position in a communication last december. the council adopted its conclusions last week. parliament should now complete the eu’s contribution to the summit by adopting this report. this way, we will have a strong collective vision on what a successful world humanitarian summit should be – a vision that we can communicate to partners around the globe. regarding the massive refugee crisis, europe has undertaken its share of responsibility. the initiatives by president juncker and the commission clearly show that this crisis is a major priority, and that the basic values of humanity and solidarity are at the core of the european union. europe is assuming its share of responsibility, in three major ways: firstly, through assistance to the refugees wherever they are; secondly, through the eu migration agenda – a difficult agenda; and thirdly, through a comprehensive response to the syrian crisis. we are leading by example and doing our fair share. this will strengthen our credibility. we will become the main advocate for the global response we need so much.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all witnessing the immense challenges of this century. we live in a world that is richer than ever before, but one that is marked by a serious fragility that makes people more exposed and more vulnerable to increasing risks. humanitarian crises always involve enormous human suffering for all the affected population, and even in these dramatic humanitarian crises we must think of those who suffer the most, women and girls who have always been the first victims of the victims, especially in armed conflicts, victims of abuse, rape and violence of all kinds. this is why humanitarian action must focus first and foremost on them so that they can receive adequate support and be guaranteed access to a full range of sexual and reproductive health services, as required by international humanitarian law. we really hope that the international summit scheduled for istanbul will be a great opportunity to redefine a new humanitarian system that can respond to the changes that are taking place.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the world humanitarian summit follows in the footsteps of other important summits, such as cop21 in paris, the new york conference on the sustainable development goals, and the addis ababa summit on financing for development. it is clear that it is important to arrive there with a strong position and a position that is appropriate to the emergencies that are becoming more serious. i think that the work done by the rapporteur, mr enrique guerrero salom, is an excellent mediation between the different positions within the european parliament, and so the report is an excellent text which we shall support. clearly, good work also comes from good advice that has come to the ngos, which are the ones that deal with these kinds of situations the most, so they deserve a round of applause and we have to commit ourselves to protecting those who work in the field and to preventing attacks like the ones we've seen in the doctors without borders hospitals recently.
in writing. the world humanitarian summit will be held in istanbul in may. this will be an opportunity to adapt the humanitarian aid system to the current, ever-changing emergency scenario. it is very important that the emphasis be shifted from reaction to prevention, in order to avoid catastrophes as much as possible rather than to remedy them. in this context, the european union must be at the forefront of efforts to be a driving force and a leader in the field of exports of best practice. in short, a strong international commitment is needed and the union is called upon to promote it. the report we have before us is certainly going in the right direction and i have therefore given it my full support.
i would like to thank mr schmit and the luxembourg presidency for the excellent work they have done in a particularly difficult six-month period. last sunday, french voters stopped the far right. but beware, that vote is a warning to all. a mixture of selfishness and nationalism has slowed down the momentum that the european commission and this parliament have given to european action. the french vote should open the eyes of those who are still blind. we have to act. on immigration: the commission's proposal to set up a new european body for the protection of the external borders is a good one, but the other pillars are also needed, namely a binding mechanism for the distribution of refugees and a review of the dublin system. the distribution of refugees is not going well. member states have undertaken commitments which must be respected; the union is a community of law and failure to respect the commitments it has made will lead to its disintegration. the resettlement of refugees should therefore be started immediately, as has already been decided, and new initiatives should be taken to resettle more asylum seekers. on the dublin system: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the system is not overused. all this must be done and done immediately, but action is also imperative in the face of the economic crisis. in this context, we consider it provocative to call into question flexibility, the principle of flexibility which is inherent in the stability pact. we need more flexibility, not less. the juncker plan is a jewel that cannot remain in glass, it has great opportunities that must be grasped, that must be explained, that must be disseminated with regard to local and regional authorities, national governments and the business system. it is also time that the famous triple a on social security should be put into practice. we expect the european commission to approve the mobility package as soon as possible and to take all the other initiatives on the priority aspects of social policies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the steel industry is threatened by trade dumping, if we do not act now the european steel industry will be wiped out with the loss of thousands and thousands of jobs, we cannot but hear the cry for help from employers and workers. president juncker, i am addressing you because i know how sensitive you are to this issue and i say to you that for us socialists and democrats the granting of market economy status to china under the present conditions is premature. on brexit, i repeat what i said when we were faced with the risk of grexit. we socialists and democrats will do everything to ensure that the united kingdom remains in the european union. we want to help our british compatriots to remain in the union, but cameron must also contribute with clear and constructive positions to the successful conclusion of the negotiations. the european union is not a pile of rubble, but there are problems and we must not bury our heads in the sand. the way to really make 2016 a decisive value is to act. we can solve these problems if we stand together, parliament and the commission, as we have done even more so in recent months, and if we are joined by the genuine leaders who are also present at national level and who love europe. this alliance with our citizens can save the european design.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of mounting external tensions and pressures, europe has no choice but to return to economic growth and to resolve the ambiguity of its cultural identity. the economic crisis has caused the shift towards poverty of what was once the middle class. shortsighted austerity policies have not been able to alleviate the suffering of many through simple and immediate solidarity measures such as citizenship income. many of the tensions and disruptive forces could have been avoided if there had been more understanding of the devastating social effects of austerity policies. the crisis has deformed europe, which today, weaker than ever, invests ever greater resources to defend itself against terrorist attacks and migratory pressures, but does not adequately support the main solution: economic growth. if there is growth, there is room for everyone, if there is no growth, there will be more closures of borders. then there's the issue of cultural identity, ours are so many different cultures, they have become nothing more than the sum of their parts, if anything, something less, much less, a frightened and fragmented society. a europe that is uncertain about its common good is a europe that is breeding the seeds of radicalism within itself, which are now increasingly difficult to combat. this year's efforts to promote growth are proving insufficient, in some ways exacerbating inequalities. we need to reflect more deeply on the common challenges of our industrial policy, which is not only about services and digital, but also about manufacturing. that is why we want to urge this summit to find a concrete political vision and a moral impulse capable of convincing and involving so that our fellow citizens can see a european union that is useful to them too.
i would like to welcome to the gallery a group of young firefighters from the island of korcula and the peljesac peninsula in croatia, who this summer fought against the fire and saved many lives. we thank them and greet them warmly. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the european union is a monster, a monster that has been created over the decades, and that is a monster that eats, drinks and sleeps, unfortunately, and the others do of course whatever they want. we are a european union which is not even united on the budget; you just go around europe, many countries don't even have bidets, and then we talk about education and hygiene. but we are talking about hygiene here and also about food because we have to say, impose that we have to eat insects. but it is the european union itself that says: europeans are beginning to learn how to eat insects. but we take the milk out of the cheese, we take the grapes out of the wine. but you're crazy, you're crazy! i mean, someone like juncker in my opinion - unfortunately he has left, although he has changed his hairstyle, i still recognize him - is someone who needs to go to a psychologist, because that is not the way to run the european union. we have the islamic terrorists coming. then i propose the european guantanamo. i'll be the director. the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to develop their economic and social cohesion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was listening to the debate and i was reminded of a debate we had in november 2012, when angela merkel came to meet parliament, and there was a great reflection on what the european model is, and we remembered that we were still a europe of 27, we were about to welcome croatia as the 28th full member of the european union, that we represent just under 10% of the world's population, just over 20% of global gdp and 50% of social spending. and it was reflected that even if we wanted to defend this model, we certainly had to change something to continue to support such an expensive model. it is clear that what we are facing today is a game changer, because it is a social model. i understand that many people in many parts of the world may aspire to this model, but if we risk not being able to support it for our own citizens, you understand that we cannot offer it with the best of intentions. so it is empty fantasies expressed by those who would welcome everyone and open the door to everyone. we have to set rules, unfortunately, we have to decide that we only accept those who are really fleeing the war and control our borders. but there is another thing that worries me, we have to support our economy. so, too much rhetoric on this paris agreement. i would ask you to check carefully what voluntary commitments the countries are making, because they must be of equal weight, otherwise we will be hurting the competitiveness of our industry. that said, nothing is easy, but we're here to work and provide answers.
of course, mr gonzález pons, we all share the grief of the families of the two spanish agents who were killed outside the embassy of the kingdom of spain in kabul.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is right to know the identity of those who enter our territory, but it is essential that this common responsibility should be felt for the whole of immigration policy, from control to reception, integration and return, otherwise things will not work, other than union. so too are the commitments made on hotspots, relocations and returns. i mean, they're all stages of a single process, and if they don't all work together, the mechanism gets clogged up. i speak for italy, we have done our part heroically, i would like to stress this, when europe was blind, dumb, blind and deaf and we are doing our part in the hotspots. but it is the relocation that is not working, 186 people relocated, underlined people and not numbers, people out of the 40,000 planned. it's a shame, but it's not italy. this is the world going upside down. when i hear italy being accused, i think this: the world is upside down. and i would like to ask mr weber, who likes to vote, what vote he gave to his colleague mr orbán, the one with the barbed wire, the one who laughs at european rules, i hope a disqualification vote. we recognize that dublin is dead, that geography cannot decide where a refugee will live, that it must be our european policy of solidarity and a common policy. let us do the decisive things, otherwise it will be another blow to the credibility of europe and we europeans will become allies and accomplices of those forces which we hear in this house are against europe, are for the disintegration of europe.
thank you so much for your support.
the debate is closed. the sitting was suspended for a few moments pending the award of the sakharov prize. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. ‒ although there is no objective reason for my opposition to the renewal of the mandate of andrea enria as president of the european banking authority, i opposed this measure to express my disagreement with the economic policies of the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the first eba president was appointed in 2011. the board of supervisors may renew the mandate of mr andrea enria, currently in office, for a further five years. it is clear that, on our part, what determines our vote, more than a critical attitude towards mr enria, is the critical attitude of our delegation and of the whole group of which we are a part. our position, which is completely opposed to the economic policies of the european institutions, can only mean that we are opposed to the renewal of the post in question.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and voting in the house, i voted in favour of the report on the renewal of the mandate of the president of the european banking authority. i believe that the correction of macroeconomic imbalances will be achieved by strengthening governance and coordinating economic policies, in order to take advantage of the effectiveness and flexibility of the stability and growth pact. the european banking authority (eba) is responsible for ensuring an effective and uniform level of regulation and supervision in the european banking sector. it is therefore necessary to prevent macroeconomic imbalances primarily by strengthening and stabilising economic governance, while ensuring continuity of action by the authorities involved. the renewal of the mandate of the current president of eba goes in this direction, helping to ensure the integrity, efficiency and smooth functioning of the banking sector. the consequences of economic fragility that imbalances in a non-harmonised banking sector can produce should not be underestimated and maximum cohesion of the three supervisory authorities should therefore be ensured in order to support the creation of the single set of banking sector rules to ensure a level playing field and a high level of protection for depositors, investors and consumers.
in writing. ‒ the econ committee of the european parliament held a single hearing of the candidates, and then voted last week to renew the mandate. the opposite view is due, firstly, to the almost automatic way in which renewal has taken place and, secondly, to the fact that the added value of the authority has been marginal to date. it would have required a real debate and analysis.
in writing. i voted in favour of the re-confirmation of the mandate of mr andrea enria as president of the eba for a further five years; i also considered the hearing held on 17 november 2015 to be exhaustive, during which enria made a preliminary statement and answered all the questions put to him by the members of the committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because, considering that the board of supervisors of the eba has proposed to renew the mandate of andrea enria, the current president of the eba, for another five years, and has informed the european parliament of this, as a member of the epp i support the proposal for renewal of the mandate and take this opportunity to express my sincere wishes for a good job, which i am sure he will carry out with dedication and great commitment.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the renewal of the appointment of mr andrea ernia to the prestigious and important post of president of the european banking authority.
in writing. ‒ a european-wide micro-prudential supervisory system was established at the end of 2010, comprising the european banking authority (eba, based in london), the european securities and markets authority (esma, based in paris) and the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa, based in frankfurt). in 2011, the presidents of the three authorities were appointed for a five-year term, renewable once. the respective boards of supervisors have proposed the renewal of the mandate of both andrea enria (eba), gabriel bernardino (eiopa) and also steven maijoor (esma). the econ committee of the european parliament only held a hearing of the candidates, and then voted last week to renew the mandate of all three by a large majority. we voted against, firstly, a method of renewal which is almost automatic and devoid of any real motivation; the role and value of these authorities has so far proved to be rather marginal, and therefore continuing in the wake of five unsatisfactory years certainly does not seem to be the best decision that could be taken. so my vote is negative today.
in writing. on 8 september 2015, the board of supervisors of eba proposed to renew the term of office of its chairperson. in view of the delicate supervisory role played by the eba in ensuring the financial stability of the euro area, and taking note of the careful direction already given by president andrea erria, i have decided to express a favourable opinion on the renewal of its mandate. i would like to congratulate the president and wish him well in his work.
in writing. ‒ the board of supervisors of the european banking authority (eba) proposes to renew the mandate of the president of the eba, mr andrea enria, for a further five years. the report in the comments, which i support by voting in favour, approves the continuation of the mandate of the chairperson, recalling article 48 (4) of regulation (eu) no 1093/2010 of the european parliament and of the council of 24 november 2010, which, in particular, grants the authority of the european banking authority such a power.
in writing. ‒ i am sure you will agree that andrea enria's work as president of the eba has been excellent. i therefore urge you to vote unanimously in favour of his being confirmed for the next five years. i take this opportunity, if the outcome of the vote is as expected, to wish him well.
in writing. ‒ the eba is an eu agency tasked with implementing a standard set of rules to regulate and supervise the banking sector in all eu countries. its objective is to create an efficient, transparent and stable single market for eu banking products. its chairperson leads the discussions during the meetings of the eba board, which is attended by supervisors from all eu countries. i congratulate the president of the eba, mr andrea enria, on the renewal of his mandate and wish him well in his work, with the hope that he will be able to play his role with the utmost independence and transparency.
in writing. ‒ a european-wide micro-prudential supervisory system was established at the end of 2010, comprising the european banking authority (eba, based in london), the european securities and markets authority (esma, based in paris) and the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa, based in frankfurt). in 2011, the presidents of the three authorities were appointed for a five-year term, renewable once. the board of the european banking authority has proposed to renew the mandate of mr andrea enria. the econ committee of the european parliament only held a hearing of the candidate, and then voted last week to renew the mandate by a very large majority. i voted against, firstly, a method of renewal which is almost automatic and devoid of any real motivation; the role and value of these authorities has so far proved to be rather marginal, and therefore continuing in the wake of five unsatisfactory years certainly does not seem to be the best decision that could be taken.
in writing. ‒ although there is no objective reason for my opposition to the renewal of gabriel bernardino as president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, i opposed this measure to express my disagreement with the economic policies of the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the first chairman of eiopa was appointed in 2011 for a five-year term. the board of supervisors of eiopa may renew the mandate of mr gabriel bernardino, currently in office, for a further five years. it is clear that, on our part, what determines our vote, more than a critical attitude towards the current president, is the critical attitude of our delegation and the whole group of which we are a part. our position, which is completely opposed to the economic policies of the european institutions, cannot but mean that we are opposed to the renewal of the post in question.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the proposal to renew the mandate of the president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa). i believe that dr bernardino's work reflects a positive assessment of the work and achievements of the past five years, as well as the organization's prospects and plans for the future. the governing board of the european insurance and pensions authority also welcomed this decision and decided to re-confirm dr gabriel bernardino as president of the organisation for a new five-year term.
in writing. ‒ as with the renewal of the presidency of the other two authorities, i think that everything has happened too hastily, taking the renewal for granted. i therefore spoke negatively about it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the re-confirmation of gabriel bernardino's mandate as president of eiopa for another five years. i also considered the hearing on 17 november 2015 to be exhaustive, during which mr bernardino made a preliminary statement and answered all the questions put to him by the members of the committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i consider that the board of supervisors of the eba has proposed to renew the mandate of andrea enria, the current president of the eba, for another five years, and has informed the european parliament of this. moreover, since the mandate of the president of the eba can be renewed once, subject to confirmation by the european parliament, i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate him and to wish him well in his important role, which he will, as usual, carry out with great commitment.
in writing. ‒ i congratulate eiopa president gabriel bernardino on his reappointment and wish him a good job that will surely lead to excellent results.
in writing. ‒ a european-wide micro-prudential supervisory system was established at the end of 2010, comprising the european banking authority (eba, based in london), the european securities and markets authority (esma, based in paris) and the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa, based in frankfurt). in 2011, the presidents of the three authorities were appointed for a five-year term, renewable once. the respective boards of supervisors have proposed the renewal of the mandate of both andrea enria (eba), gabriel bernardino (eiopa) and also steven maijoor (esma). the econ committee of the european parliament only held a hearing of the candidates, and then voted last week to renew the mandate of all three by a large majority. we voted against, firstly, a method of renewal which is almost automatic and devoid of any real motivation; the role and value of these authorities has so far proved to be rather marginal, and therefore continuing in the wake of five unsatisfactory years certainly does not seem to be the best decision that could be taken. so my vote is negative today.
in writing. on 30 september 2015, the board of supervisors of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) proposed to renew the mandate of gabriel bernardino, acting president of eiopa. i have decided to vote in favour of this report in order to ensure the continuity necessary to ensure the maximum efficiency of the work of this institution, which has achieved excellent results under the leadership of president bernardino. i would like to conclude by congratulating the president on his re-election and wishing him a successful career.
in writing. ‒ the board of supervisors of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) of 30 september 2015 proposes to renew the mandate of the chair of eiopa for a further five years. the rapporteur approves this decision and i support this proposal by my vote in favour, recalling article 48 (4) of regulation (eu) no 1094/2010 of the european parliament and of the council of 24 november 2010, which, in particular, gives the authority the possibility to renew the mandate of its president.
in writing. ‒ i am sure you will agree that gabriel bernardino has done an excellent job as president of eiopa. i therefore urge you to vote unanimously in favour of his being confirmed for the next five years. i take this opportunity, if the outcome of the vote is as expected, to wish him well.
in writing. ‒ the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) is a body of the european union. the primary objective of eiopa, which has legal personality, is to protect the public interest by contributing to the stability and effectiveness of the financial system for the benefit of the economy of the european union, its citizens and its businesses. article 48 (4) of regulation (eu) no 1094/2010 provides that the board of supervisors of eiopa may renew the term of office of the chairperson of eiopa only once, subject to the approval of the european parliament. i hope that following today's vote, eiopa president gabriel bernardino will be able to continue his work with the utmost independence and transparency.
in writing. ‒ a european-wide micro-prudential supervisory system was established at the end of 2010, comprising the european banking authority (eba, based in london), the european securities and markets authority (esma, based in paris) and the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa, based in frankfurt). in 2011, the presidents of the three authorities were appointed for a five-year term, renewable once. the board of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority has proposed that the mandate of mr gabriel bernardino be renewed. the econ committee of the european parliament only held a hearing of the candidate, and then voted last week to renew the mandate by a very large majority. i voted against, firstly, a method of renewal which is almost automatic and devoid of any real motivation; the role and value of these authorities has so far proved to be rather marginal, and therefore continuing in the wake of five unsatisfactory years certainly does not seem to be the best decision that could be taken.
in writing. ‒ although there is no objective reason for my opposition to the renewal of the mandate of the president of the european securities and markets authority (esma), i opposed this measure to express my disagreement with the economic policies of the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the first chairman of esma was appointed in 2011. the board of supervisors may renew the mandate of steven maijoor, currently in office, for a further five years. our delegation has no particular criticism of the current president. but our position is clearly totally opposed to the economic policies of the european institutions and therefore we cannot but oppose the renewal of the post of head of the european securities and markets authority.
in writing. ‒ the renewal of the mandate of esma's president followed the same rapid procedure as the renewal of the mandate of eba, without any real analysis of the work of the agency or its president. for these reasons i voted against the renewal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the re-confirmation of the mandate of steven maijoor as president of esma for another five years. i also considered the hearing on 17 november 2015 to be exhaustive, during which mr maijoor made a preliminary statement and answered all the questions put to him by the members of the committee.
in writing. ‒ my warmest congratulations to steven maijoor on his appointment as president of esma.
in writing. ‒ a european-wide micro-prudential supervisory system was established at the end of 2010, comprising the european banking authority (eba, based in london), the european securities and markets authority (esma, based in paris) and the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa, based in frankfurt). in 2011, the presidents of the three authorities were appointed for a five-year term, renewable once. the respective boards of supervisors have proposed the renewal of the mandate of both andrea enria (eba), gabriel bernardino (eiopa) and also steven maijoor (esma). the econ committee of the european parliament only held a hearing of the candidates, and then voted last week to renew the mandate of all three by a large majority. we voted against, firstly, a method of renewal which is almost automatic and devoid of any real motivation; the role and value of these authorities has so far proved to be rather marginal, and therefore continuing in the wake of five unsatisfactory years certainly does not seem to be the best decision that could be taken. so my vote is negative today.
in writing. on 24 september 2015, esma's board of supervisors proposed to renew the term of office of steven maijoor, acting president of esma, for a further five years. i am therefore in favour of this measure, given that esma has been able to fulfil its full role of monitoring and guaranteeing the stability of the financial markets in the years of severe financial crisis and of major movements affecting and affecting the activity of the financial markets. so i vote in favour of the motion and congratulate steven maijoor on his renewal as president.
in writing. ‒ the board of supervisors of the european securities and markets authority (esma) has proposed to renew the mandate of its chairman for a further five years and has informed the european parliament of this proposal. in this report, mr gualtieri complies with the request of the board by referring to article 48 (4) of regulation (eu) no 1095/2010, according to which the board of supervisors of esma may renew the term of office of the chairperson once, subject to confirmation by the european parliament. i am voting in favour of that position.
in writing. ‒ i am sure you will agree that steven maijoor has done an excellent job as president of esma so far. i therefore urge you to vote unanimously in favour of his being confirmed for the next five years. i take this opportunity, if the outcome of the vote is as expected, to wish him well.
in writing. ‒ the european securities and markets authority (esma) is responsible for overseeing financial markets and credit rating agencies in order to ensure the stability of the eu financial system by working in collaboration with the european banking authority (eba) and the european insurance and pensions authority (eiopa) to build a uniform regulatory framework for financial markets in the european union. the management board of esma has re-confirmed the current chairperson, mr steven maijoor, for a new five-year term. in his role as head of esma, steven maijoor will continue to lead and plan the work of the organisation's steering committee, which is composed of representatives of the national supervisors of the eu countries. i wish president steven maijoor well in his work to further and improve investor protection measures and the stability of the financial markets in the european union.
in writing. ‒ a european-wide micro-prudential supervisory system was established at the end of 2010, comprising the european banking authority (eba, based in london), the european securities and markets authority (esma, based in paris) and the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa, based in frankfurt). in 2011, the presidents of the three authorities were appointed for a five-year term, renewable once. the board of the european securities and markets authority has proposed to renew the mandate of mr steven maijoor. the econ committee of the european parliament only held a hearing of the candidate, and then voted last week to renew the mandate by a very large majority. i voted against, firstly, a method of renewal which is almost automatic and devoid of any real motivation; the role and value of these authorities has so far proved to be rather marginal, and therefore continuing in the wake of five unsatisfactory years certainly does not seem to be the best decision that could be taken.
in writing. ‒ under article 23 of the europol decision, the council is considered to have the competence to conclude international agreements with third countries or international organisations. agreements are generally based on a mutual commitment to exchange operational, strategic or classified information. the proposal put forward by the rapporteur, mr fontana, calls for the establishment of a new form of cooperation with the state of bosnia-herzegovina. i have decided to abstain, given that the negotiations for a reform of the gai decision establishing europol were concluded on 29 november. as a result of these changes, new and stricter rules will soon be applied. i therefore thought it appropriate to postpone the creation of new cooperatives until a later date, so that the new rules can also be applied to new agreements.
in writing. ‒ given bosnia and herzegovina's geographical location and strategic role in the balkans, i believe that greater cooperation between this country and europol will ensure more effective policies and counter-action against organised crime. for all these reasons i have voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the cooperation agreement between bosnia and herzegovina and europol is a welcome development, useful in the context of improved strategic and operational cooperation between the eu member states and allied countries with a view to greater efficiency in the fight against terrorism, mafias, smuggling and international crime.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the proposal for a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and bosnia and herzegovina which also provides for the exchange of sensitive personal data. it is therefore very important to ensure that the agreement is concluded within the framework of the new europol regulation which recalls the new european data protection legislation, which will be adopted shortly. we therefore thought it appropriate to wait before approving the cooperation agreement, which is also extremely important. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal under consideration concerning the approval of the conclusion of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and europol, which includes personal data. such information could be in the field of expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and crime prevention methods, as well as supporting information in the context of individual criminal investigations. parliament also considered that the council should refrain from adopting the draft decision until the new europol regulation had entered into force.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the report by mr fontana on the draft agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and europol, as also agreed with the council.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and europol, as i believe that cooperation between the latter and the european agency needs to be strengthened in order to achieve more effective results in the fight against crime.
in writing. ‒ europol's cooperation with bosnia and herzegovina is motivated by clear operational needs. europol believes that bosnia and herzegovina, given its strategic position and role in the balkans, has an important role to play in implementing stronger policies in the fight against organised crime.
in writing. the draft under consideration concerns the proposal to approve the conclusion of an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and europol in relation to personal data. this historical situation requires us to work closely with the countries of the balkan peninsula, which have become the crossroads of the migratory flows to europe. in this context, i hope that this agreement will be a step towards ever closer cooperation and will allow for future integration with the whole area. i have decided to give my favourable opinion because i believe that this agreement will enable both parties to conduct more accurate investigations through the exchange of operational, strategic, technical and/or classified information.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and europol. pursuant to decisions 2009/371/jha and 2009/934/jha, europol is required to conclude agreements with third states which are included in a list established by decision 2009/934/jha, which includes bosnia and herzegovina. the aim of these agreements is to prevent and combat organised crime, terrorism and other forms of serious crime involving two or more states and which may involve the exchange of operational, strategic and technical information. in order to ensure effectiveness in preventing and combating serious crime, europol has initiated the procedure for the conclusion of an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and europol (the so-called operational and strategic agreement), which provides for the exchange of information, including the results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures, crime prevention methods and the provision of advice in support of individual criminal investigations.
in writing. ‒ the draft referred to in mr fontana's report, which i approve, concerns the proposal to approve the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between bosnia-herzegovina and europol. this would be strategic cooperation based on the exchange of useful information and results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures and methods of crime prevention. the report is particularly accurate in that it further emphasizes the desirability of proceeding with the approval of the project only after the entry into force of the europol regulation.
in writing. ‒ the current contingencies dictate the need to ensure full sharing, at intra- and extra-european level, and an adequate exchange of information, in order to effectively combat cross-border criminal networks. i have therefore decided to support the report by mr fontana, which supports the council's decision to authorize an agreement negotiated by europol, the european police office, and bosnia-herzegovina, a candidate country for membership of the community.
in writing. ‒ we all agree on the importance and quality of the work carried out by europol. the extension of its cooperation network to bosnia-herzegovina is undoubtedly an added value not only for the european police office but for europe as a whole, especially in view of the delicate development of relations with the balkans. i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the draft under consideration concerns the proposal to approve the conclusion of an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and europol, which includes personal data. the european parliament and the council have entered into informal negotiations on a new europol regulation (2013/0091 ((cod)) which provides for significant changes to the procedure for the conclusion of international agreements. once the new europol regulation enters into force, parliament's favourable opinion will be required for any eu police cooperation agreement with third countries. the report considers that the council should refrain from adopting the draft decision on operational cooperation with bosnia and herzegovina until the new europol regulation enters into force. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the text voted today concerns the conclusion of an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between europol and bosnia and herzegovina in the fight against crime and terrorism. the terms of the agreement provide for the exchange of information on criminal investigation procedures and classified documents, as well as the provision of advice and support. i have decided to vote in favour of this report in order to increase the effectiveness of the prevention and combating of the most serious forms of international crime in europe and in bosnia-herzegovina.
in writing. ‒ pwa international is yet another case where single market failures have led to a company crisis and the loss of 108 jobs. i am voting in favour of the mobilisation of the egf to the amount of eur 442 293 for the 108 redundancies in this company. the globalisation adjustment fund remains a key instrument for supporting citizens, the eu should first of all tackle market distortions as a whole rather than just trying to treat the victims of its ill-considered policies.
in writing. ‒ as has already happened in the past for alitalia employees, it is right that irish workers in the affected production facilities also benefit from the european globalisation adjustment fund so that they can be effectively assisted in re-entering the labour market by updating their training and at the same time giving them economic support. the egf should, therefore, be mobilised in order to provide financial assistance to workers in undertakings which have suffered serious physical or mental disorders as a result of these events.
in writing. - i vote for it. there are 108 redundancies in the sector of 'repair and installation of machinery and equipment', amounting to eur 442 293. pwai was founded in 1989 as a joint venture between united technologies corporation and lufthansa technik airmotive ireland. in the 1990s, ireland specialised in aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul, which was very useful to ireland at that time, but made it particularly vulnerable to the recent trend to locate maintenance, repair and overhaul activities close to the expanding centres of world aviation, namely asia, and to the negative effects of global trade agreements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of 108 workers made redundant as a result of globalisation by ie/pwa international, a company active in the repair and installation of machinery and equipment. the recent trend to locate maintenance, repair and overhaul of machinery and equipment close to the growing centres of world air transport, namely asia, has made this sector very vulnerable in ireland. the negative effects of global trade agreements have worsened this situation of vulnerability. i also note that the maintenance, repair and overhaul of machinery and equipment has been severely affected in europe, particularly in ireland, with the closure of sr technics in 2009 and lufthansa technik airmotive ireland in 2014, which led to the loss of approximately 1 520 jobs. the vote in favour of this report will make it possible to facilitate the rapid reintegration of these redundant workers into employment by means of personalised support measures. i regret that italian companies are not making adequate use of this fund because of the lack of support from local institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the egf for ireland. the measure in question refers, in the context of the 2015 budget, to the mobilisation of the fund for a total amount of eur 442 293. the request is based on the reintegration into employment of redundant workers at pwa international ltd, an enterprise in the economic sector classified in nace rev. 2 division 33 (repair and installation of machinery and equipment), as well as the integration into the labour market of 108 young unemployed persons not in education or training (neets). it should be noted that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide support for workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. among the causes of the crisis is the closure of pwai following the decision to consolidate the company's operations in north america and asia, as a result of the tendency to locate maintenance, repair and overhaul activity in proximity to expanding centres of world air transport and the negative effects of global trade agreements.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows. on 6 november the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in ireland to facilitate the reintegration into employment of redundant workers at pwa international ltd and the integration into the labour market of 108 young unemployed and neets. i support this proposal as the commission has concluded that the application complies with all the applicable provisions of the egf regulation and therefore fulfils the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf. according to the irish authorities, the event that triggered the redundancies at pwa international coincided with the closure of pwai following the decision to move some activities such as maintenance, repair and overhaul to north america and asia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for 108 redundancies in the field of 'repair and installation of machinery and equipment' amounting to € 442 293 in ireland.
in writing. on 6 november, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf for ireland, concerning the reintegration into employment of redundant workers at pwa international ltd. the egf should be mobilised in order to provide a financial contribution of eur 442 293 for ireland for 108 redundant workers at pwa international. i decided to vote in favour because the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation have been met and because i believe in a europe of solidarity, both horizontally between its members and even more vertically towards its citizens.
in writing. ‒ on 6 november, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in ireland for financial assistance following 108 redundant placements to facilitate the reintegration of workers into employment at pwa international ltd, an economic operator in the machinery and equipment repair and installation division. the various training and support measures for entrepreneurship and self-employment to be provided to redundant workers, such as guidance, planning and professional development, should ensure timely assistance to facilitate the rapid reintegration of employees who have been made redundant as a result of the economic and financial crisis.
in writing. ‒ on 6 november, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in ireland to facilitate the reintegration into employment of redundant workers at pwa international ltd, an enterprise in the economic sector classified in nace revision 2 division 33 (repair and installation of machinery and equipment), and the integration into the labour market of 108 unemployed young people not enrolled in education or training. the total amount requested is eur 442 293. given the role of the egf, which was set up to provide additional support for workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade, i am voting in favour of mr negrescu's proposal.
in writing. ‒ i believe that one of the main tasks of the european union is to intervene in support of european citizens where situations of need and deprivation arise. i have therefore decided to support the mobilisation of the egf to help 108 redundant workers at ie/pwa international, an irish company active in the repair and installation of machinery and equipment.
in writing. ‒ ireland was the subject of a severe economic crisis in 2013, which had negative consequences especially for workers, who now require rapid relocation to the newly growing economic sector. i am sensitive to the issue of employment and i know the problems because of the work done by my colleagues on the empl committee. for these reasons, i think it is necessary to give a positive answer to ireland's request for the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal to mobilise the egf in relation to the application submitted by ireland to support the reintegration into the labour market of redundant workers following the closure of the pwai based in rathcoole, county dublin. the difficult economic situation already existing in this area, combined with the effect of the closure, in a short space of time, of three large aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul businesses, and the fact that there are no employers left in this sector in the whole of ireland, have led to the submission of the request to mobilise the fund. the egf provides personalised services for redundant workers, such as help to find a job and help to start up a business. i hope that today's vote will allow the reintegration of the workers into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ we in m5s usually support and are in favour of requests to mobilise the egf, but for ireland we voted against. this is because in our view the irish government has insufficiently justified the request by stating that the economic crisis is not only affecting the air transport sector but also neighbouring companies (already the subject of previous egf contributions). another factor that did not convince us was the number of redundancies: the commission has already adopted a proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions.
in writing. ‒ this is ireland's request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to provide a contribution of around eur 450 000 to support 108 workers in the repair and supply of aircraft equipment. i have always supported the approval of the egf as a basic rule, although i am aware of its limitations and of certain critical points: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in fact, the egf should be mobilised when more than 500 units have been used up, whereas here we are well below that figure, and a derogation from the regulation has been chosen. the irish government has tried to provide an explanation by arguing that this request is part of a wider crisis in the whole sector, which would also involve other firms, already subject to previous egf contributions: i am not convinced that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to reach a decision on the budget for the year in question.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of rejecting the list of invasive alien species proposed by the commission, which not only does not include the most invasive and problematic species, but instead includes species that would cause no harm to the biodiversity of our territories, human health or the economy.
in writing. - i vote for it. the first list of the commission has been criticised by several national competent authorities, stakeholders and the public, who now have serious doubts about the future effectiveness of the eie regulation, in particular because many of the most problematic invasive alien species are not listed, while other species have been included that are not likely to cause significant adverse effects on biodiversity, ecosystem services, human health or the economy or for which the measures to be taken would entail disproportionate costs.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing regulation adopting a list of invasive alien species of union concern under regulation (eu) no 1143/2014. the commission shall adopt, by means of implementing acts, a list of invasive alien species of union concern, identified as such because the damage they cause in certain member states is such as to justify the adoption of appropriate measures applicable throughout the union. this list shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in each member state. however, in compiling this list, the commission did not ensure that the methodology to be used for risk assessment is applied in the same way in all member states. furthermore, the reasons for including a species in the draft union list are not based on a risk assessment and appear to be based on political rather than scientific criteria. the resolution therefore asked the commission to withdraw the draft implementing regulation and to submit a new draft. for these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the article 106 objection concerning the list of invasive alien species, as i believe that the establishment of a list of such species does not address the problem of invasive alien species exhaustively in order to protect native biodiversity and ecosystem services and minimise the effects on human health or the economy that such species could have.
in writing. the resolution opposes a draft list of 36 invasive alien species proposed by the commission to prevent their introduction and manage their spread within the union. the objection raised by the resolution deplores the absence from this list of many invasive species which have not yet been included by the commission for lack of time. the commission was obliged to submit the list by 2015 and was therefore forced to propose a list, even if it was not yet finalised. this list will be completed by the commission once the risk assessment for the species not yet present has been completed. i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the council of ministers is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the objection as many of the most problematic invasive alien species are not listed, while other species have been included which are not likely to cause significant adverse effects on biodiversity, ecosystem services, human health or the economy or for which the measures to be taken would entail disproportionate costs.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the objection under rule 106. the commission did not ensure that the methodology to be used in the risk assessment was applied in the same way in all member states. i therefore believe that it is not possible to ensure that member states use the same type of tests and apply the same general rules. finally, i would point out that several terrestrial plants and mammal species were not included in the list despite a careful risk assessment.
in writing. ‒ the appearance of exotic species, whether animals, plants, fungi or micro-organisms, in new places is not always a cause for concern. however, if these species reach a considerable number, they can become invasive and the serious negative effects that this can have not only on biodiversity but also on society and the economy must be prevented. it was therefore decided to establish a list of invasive alien species of european interest which will be binding in all its elements and directly applicable in each member state. in drawing up the list, the commission did not deal fully with all the scientific aspects, leaving out very important aspects. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution calling on the commission to withdraw the draft implementing regulation and to submit a new draft to the committee responsible.
in writing. ‒ i support this resolution by voting in favour of rejecting the authorization of genetically modified maize nk603xt25, owned by monsanto. i am against the use of gmos in our crops, and i am convinced that we must continue to protect the market and the public from the invasion of these modified varieties produced by multinationals and continue to support the authenticity of our own production in our own territories.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the objection against the authorisation of this gmo maize from monsanto. we are opposed in principle to any new authorization of gmos, all the more so in the present legal context. the commission is using the pretext of approving the right of member states to prohibit the cultivation of a gmo on their territory (a theoretical right, as we saw at the time, when we voted against the measure) to unblock the authorization of new gmos, despite the fact that the usual deadlock in the committee responsible is still in place, due to the cross-vote of member states in favour of and against gmos.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the motion for a resolution on commission implementing decision (eu) 2015/2279 of 4 december 2015 authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified maize nk603 × t25 (mon-øø6ø3-6 × acs-zmøø3-2) pursuant to regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the european parliament and of the council. in this resolution, the european parliament opposed the placing of these products on the market. the corn in question expresses the cp4 protein epsps, which gives it tolerance to the herbicide glyphosate, which is on the world health organization's list of probable human carcinogens. in addition, by this vote parliament underlined that any implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified organisms under regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 in its current non-functioning version should be suspended until the commission has submitted a new legislative proposal that takes into account the concerns expressed repeatedly at national level and by this parliament. for all these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the objection against the authorisation of this gmo maize from monsanto. the european commission is daily showing itself to be distant from the people and the workers of europe, putting at risk not only health but also the economy, history and traditions, and at the same time always favouring the big multinationals.
in writing. i think it is very important that my colleagues in the committee on the environment should propose that the implementing decision on the placing on the market of six types of genetically modified maize be repealed. parliament's scrutiny is decisive in these cases of procedural and substantive control over commission implementing acts, and it is rightly stressed that any implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified organisms should be suspended until a new regulation on the sensitive subject of gmos is adopted, which this house rejected only a month ago.
in writing. ‒ on 17 may 2010, monsanto europe sa submitted to the competent authority of the netherlands an application, in accordance with articles 5 and 17 of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, for the placing on the market of foods, food ingredients, and feed containing or produced from genetically modified maize nk603 × t25. commission implementing decision (eu) 2015/2279 of 4 december 2015 authorises the placing on the market of those products in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the european parliament and of the council. i voted in favour of the objection because i consider that commission implementing decision (eu) 2015/2279 is not in accordance with union law, as it is not compatible with the purpose of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and regulation (ec) no 396/2005 (8) which is, on the basis of the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, to provide the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal welfare, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
the committee on budgets has adopted a number of amendments. ‒ i welcome the vote today by the european parliament on a resolution calling on the commission to withdraw its authorisation for the use of tolerant nk603xt25 maize glyphosate in food and feed. in the resolution we wanted to highlight the fact that glyphosate, a herbicide, is classified by the who as 'probably carcinogenic' and to call on the commission to suspend all authorisations for gmo food and feed until the authorisation procedure, currently under review, has been improved. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of genetically modified organisms (gmos) in food and feed. and the authorization we are discussing today is an attempt by the commission to circumvent this decision to allow the introduction of new gmo foods without waiting for new legislation to finally clarify this sensitive issue.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution which strongly calls on the european commission not to authorise the use of genetically modified roundup ready liberty link maize, monsanto's feed designed to tolerate glyphosate irradiation. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. i find it scandalous that the only body democratically elected by the people cannot give binding opinions on this matter and that the resolution is merely a political statement. the commission itself did not even dare to wait for this, contrary to all institutional practice, when it approved the use of nk603 x t25 maize at the beginning of the month, even before the plenary could express its opinion. since the beginning of my mandate i have been fighting to make europe a gmo-free area and with this vote i reiterate a no-no to the entry of transgenic food and feed into european territory.
in writing. ‒ the luxleaks investigation revealed a number of irregularities by the luxembourg government in the secret granting of tax breaks to large multinationals. in light of this, in december 2014 the european parliament authorised the drafting of a report on improving the rules on transparency, coordination and convergence of corporate tax policies. many of the aspects and proposals presented in the report were already analysed when the taxe report was adopted, such as: improving the exchange of information, a clear definition of the concept of tax havens, and the preparation of measures to combat tax evasion. as stated in the taxe report, while some of the proposed measures are sustainable and meet the requirements of transparency, no form of liability has been envisaged vis-à-vis the individuals and states individually concerned. that's why i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the text aims to promote transparency and avoid future scandals such as the 'luxleaks' scandal involving the luxembourg government and president juncker himself. unfortunately, there is no mention of the obvious political responsibility for what has happened and a chapter is introduced on the convergence of taxation between the different member states, which i do not agree with, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the dodds-niedermayer report contains recommendations to the european commission on a subject of great importance, linked to the work of the taxe special committee, or closely related to the "luxleaks" affair. the issue of convergence in corporate tax policies in the eu may raise some questions for those of us who look at the matter from a euro-critical point of view. the commission notes that the luxopco tax ruling does not provide for any exemption from corporate tax for luxopco's activities. in this sense, therefore, we can more than welcome calls for transparency and greater coordination between the member states. on the other hand, we are not convinced by the chapter on the convergence of taxation between the various member states. in addition, as in the case of other similar texts, we must remember that these lists of good intentions are, in fact, late and will take many years to be put into practice and to bring about concrete results and fairness and transparency within the union. our group has tabled a number of amendments aimed, among other things, at emphasizing the specific direct responsibilities of successive juncker-led governments over the years. i abstained. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval.
in writing. ‒ after careful reflection and debate in the house, i voted in favour of the report with recommendations to the commission on how to bring transparency, coordination and convergence to the union's corporate tax policies. i believe that in a european context characterised by a lack of investment and growth, a truly protective system of community rules also concerns areas of which there is little perception, namely the 'economic and financial health' of the union. moreover, it is only through a structured system of rules that transparency, coordination and convergence in corporate tax policies can be achieved. the commission notes that the tax rulings were issued in the form of a tax ruling, which was issued by the luxembourg tax administration on the basis of a ruling by the luxembourg tax administration. i agree with the report and the recommendations it makes, particularly those on the mandatory notification of new tax measures and the extension of automatic exchange of information to all rulings. there is also an urgent need for a common definition of 'tax havens' and of 'stable corporate organisation'.
in writing. ‒ following the luxleaks scandal, the european parliament decided in december 2014 to authorise the drafting of a legislative own-initiative report, which was aimed at improving transparency, coordination and convergence in corporate tax policies in the union. many of the recommendations in the text were already included in a previous report, including public country-by-country reporting, automatic notification of certain tax measures, improved information exchange, the introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base, as well as measures to ensure legality such as better protection for whistleblowers, a clear definition of what falls under the category of tax havens and the measures needed to combat their fraudulent use. despite some points of obvious importance, the report is not satisfactory on others; the absence of any reference to political responsibility of individuals and member states, which in fact facilitated the spread of these harmful practices for years, is an example. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the legislative own-initiative report by mr dodds and mr niedermayer on promoting transparency, coordination and convergence in corporate tax policies in the european union, which, due to corporate tax avoidance, special tax arrangements and inefficiencies in collection, is losing hundreds of billions of euros a year. i believe that such practices should not be considered acceptable, especially in the difficult economic circumstances in which europe finds itself at this historic moment, where it is essential that all economic actors contribute in a more than equitable way. the failure of some multinational companies to contribute creates a situation of inequality, in which smaller national companies struggle to compete, in contravention of the principle of the single market. moreover, national governments are also affected by this behaviour, as they are forced to consider reducing public services or increasing taxes for citizens in the face of a decreasing tax base, thus causing a clear disadvantage to the population.
in writing. ‒ following the luxleaks scandal, the econ committee has drawn up a series of recommendations aimed at improving transparency, coordination and convergence in corporate tax policies in the union. these are reflected in the taxe report, including public country-by-country reporting, automatic notification of certain tax measures, improved automatic exchange of information, the introduction (in two stages) of the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb), increased protection for whistleblowers, a clear definition of what falls under the category of tax havens, and the measures needed to combat the use of this harmful practice as well. as in the case of the taxe report, the intention was clear here too to ignore the political responsibilities of individual prominent individuals and individual member states, which in fact have for years facilitated the spread of these harmful practices, which is unacceptable to us. our amendments stress the political responsibility of juncker and the benelux countries and propose the withdrawal of the licence of those companies (banks in particular) which operate through tax havens. for the reasons stated above, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ although the european union has made important steps towards economic integration, such as economic and monetary union and banking union, further efforts are needed with regard to greater coordination of fiscal policies at union level, within the limits set by the european treaties. the coordination of policies on corporate taxation is an indispensable factor in the integration process. i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution because i believe that it makes very important recommendations to the commission to combat aggressive tax planning and tax evasion, such as: the creation of a country-by-country tax data collection system; increased transparency on tax rulings, whistleblower protection and coordination on corporate tax policies; the creation of a consolidated common tax base as a system of simplification and harmonisation of the definition of tax assets; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year.
in writing. in december 2014, the european parliament decided to authorise this legislative initiative report in order to promote transparency, coordination and convergence of corporate tax policies in the european union. this decision was a direct reaction to the luxleaks scandal. the eu loses around €50-70 billion a year due to corporate tax avoidance through profit shifting alone. such practices should never be considered acceptable, especially in difficult economic circumstances such as those facing europe at this time, in which parliament considers it all the more essential that all economic actors contribute equally. the failure of some multinational companies to contribute creates an environment of inequality, in which smaller national companies have difficulty competing, and this is totally contrary to the principle of the single market. from the point of view of fairness, the recommendation clearly shows a desire to completely disregard the political responsibilities of individual prominent individuals and individual member states, which have in fact facilitated the spread of these harmful practices for years. for this reason, although some of the proposed measures are acceptable, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ despite some shared considerations, i will abstain as there is no evidence of a clear denunciation of the luxleaxs case and of a clear correlation with the political responsibilities of the luxembourg government.
in writing. ‒ businesses are still too often faced with unjustifiable tax differences. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax system is not a barrier to the free movement of goods and services, but rather a system which is as integrated as possible and compatible with the needs of the development of businesses. in this sense, transparency, coordination and convergence of policies are the right direction to take. the report contains several measures which go in that direction, and for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's own-initiative report on transparency, coordination and convergence in the union's corporate taxation policies because i believe it is of the utmost importance to make progress on corporate taxation in europe, so that it is fair and above all that companies, particularly multinational companies, pay taxes in the countries where their income is actually generated and thus tackle aggressive tax planning at its roots. the ep has vigorously placed taxation issues, which are the responsibility of the member states, at the centre of its debate during this parliamentary term. the commission has therefore renewed the mandate of the taxe committee of inquiry into tax rulings, and is focusing on the introduction of a common tax base which should be the cornerstone of a common corporate taxation (ccctb) in order to promote, through this and other coordination and convergence actions in the tax sector, sustainable development and the strengthening of the competitiveness of smes. the ep's recommendations to the ec call for country-by-country reporting for all multinationals, mandatory notification of tax measures, greater transparency of free ports, protection of whistleblowers and an exhaustive list of countries to be considered tax havens.
in writing. the luxleaks scandal has highlighted the fact that many multinational companies have implemented non-transparent practices in order to reduce their tax liability by up to almost 1%. unfortunately, such aggressive tax planning practices are widespread throughout the eu. i think it is vital to coordinate national tax policies as much as possible, because as we know, legislation on this matter is the prerogative of the member states. i have decided to vote in favour of this proposal because the measures listed could bring about greater transparency, coordination and convergence in the union's policies on corporate taxation.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to create methods for introducing greater transparency and convergence of the union's corporate taxation policies. i am in full agreement with this report and can therefore only vote in favour of it. in fact, a study commissioned by the european parliament shows that the eu loses around €50-70 billion a year due to corporate tax avoidance through profit shifting alone, a figure that then rises to around €160-190 billion, if you take into account special tax arrangements and inefficiencies in collection.
in writing. ‒ we strongly support this measure, which became indispensable following the revelations, known as "luxleaks" by a group of journalists in november 2014, which revealed that many multinational companies had concluded secret agreements with the luxembourg authorities that allowed them to reduce their tax obligations, in some cases, to almost 1%, in the face of the creation of little or no economic activity in that country. we are proud of this report because it creates a new agenda for tax justice, because it introduces more transparency and coordination and convergence mechanisms, which are necessary to combat tax fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning.
in writing. ‒ all economic actors need to meet their tax obligations responsibly and fairly. the need to adhere to this premise is more pressing than ever in the light of the economic difficulties facing the european union. on the basis of what i have said, i have decided to support the report by mr dodds and mr niedermayer, which proposes far-reaching measures on corporate taxation, the aim of which is to restore a balanced and transparent system.
in writing. ‒ according to a study commissioned by the european parliament, the eu loses around €50-70 billion a year due to corporate tax avoidance through profit shifting alone. this amounts to approximately eur 160-190 billion, taking into account also special tax arrangements, inefficiencies in collection and other elements. such practices should never be considered acceptable, but in difficult economic circumstances such as those facing europe at the present time, the report considers it all the more essential that all economic actors contribute equally. in november, parliament adopted the commission's special report on tax agreements, calling for compulsory reporting of profits and taxes of multinationals in each country. today, the commission is being asked to call on member states to share tax information, to declare tax rates negotiated with companies and to protect whistleblowers who have helped uncover scandals such as luxleaks. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report 'bringing transparency, coordination and convergence to the european union's corporate tax policies' because i believe that european companies need a fairer, more transparent, more efficient and, if possible, more stable tax system. to do this, greater convergence and cooperation between the member states of the european union in tax matters is necessary. the differences between the various national tax systems make it difficult to control tax evasion and avoidance, which entails: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ the report is concerned with recommendations to the commission on transparency, coordination and convergence of corporate tax policies in the union. the report seeks to curb the use of tax evasion practices for companies, which are increasingly damaging the member states' coffers. although it is necessary to implement some of the proposals contained in the report as soon as possible (such as a common european tax identification code, legal protection for whistleblowers, measures to ensure that all profits are taxed where they are generated), i considered it appropriate to abstain because of some shortcomings. the commission has not established that the contested tax rulings are imputable to the state. in addition, downward trade-offs have been reached in several cases, for example by introducing the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) in two stages, whereas it should be introduced without intermediate stages. for these reasons i did not support the report and i preferred to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the approved report contains a number of recommendations to the commission on how to promote transparency, coordination and convergence in corporate tax policies in the union. together with the final report of the taxe committee and the amendment of the directive on the automatic exchange of information on tax rulings, it indicates the european parliament's will to combat aggressive tax planning and corporate avoidance, a scourge that causes huge losses to member states every year and creates a kind of tax dumping, benefiting multinationals at the expense of smes. i therefore believe that certain proposed measures should be implemented and put into effect as soon as possible: the proposal for a common european tax identification code; the proposal for legal protection of whistleblowers; ensuring that profits are taxed where value is created. however, there are some criticisms and shortcomings in the text which i have approved, which have led me to abstain: the country-by-country reporting should be public and easily accessible, while the ccctb consolidated common tax base should be introduced without intermediate steps. the commission also found that the tax advisor's report did not provide any evidence that the tax advisor had engaged in tax evasion practices.
in writing. ‒ eu-china relations are being adjusted for the first time with the adoption of the belder report in 2006. the report also deals with key issues such as strategic partnership, internal situation, human rights and crossborder relations. while acknowledging china's undisputed role as an economic power, the report also highlights a number of problems, firstly the discrepancy between the formal commitments made in the field of human rights and their effective observance. the commission is also concerned about climate change and the initiatives china has promised. the report, however, shows a clear intention to establish relations with china on the basis of a concerted approach with the usa, without there being a clear european strategy in this respect. i have therefore decided to abstain in favour of the development of a european plan which promotes respect for the eu's core interests and objectives.
in writing. ‒ despite recent financial difficulties that seem to lower expectations of its economic performance, the prc remains one of the eu's main trading partners, 40 years after the start of eu-china diplomatic relations. the role of investor in strategic sectors of the economy in large areas of the globe is increasingly associated with that of protagonist on the international scene. china, a key player in recent dialogues on the environment, security and counter-terrorism, continues to raise a number of unknowns on issues such as respect for human rights, the protection of minorities and freedom of expression, my vote in favour of the belder report on eu-china relations is based on the deep conviction that only a joint commitment and a proactive approach can ensure the successful development of the comprehensive strategic partnership in the years ahead. the support for relations between europe and china must have as its main objectives not only the crucial ones linked to the development of infrastructure networks, the protection of fair treatment of enterprises and the development of investments but also those relating to the regulation of global markets, the non-proliferation of arms and sustainable development programmes.
in writing. ‒ this text, which is not very bold, does not address clearly the issue of the esm and the granting of market economy status to china. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ on the occasion of the 40th anniversary of eu-china diplomatic relations, i welcome a report which aims to deepen and clarify the european parliament's view of our relations with this international partner, which is increasingly important and active on the global political and economic scene. i would also like to highlight the contribution of the s&d group to this report, which has sought to underline our objectives and positions on some vital issues. in this context, it is necessary to support the strengthening of the strategic partnership with china, which is crucial to address today's global challenges in a cooperative and more coordinated manner, and it is also important to work with china on projects such as the juncker plan on the european side and the eu-china bilateral investment agreement. however, in deepening our relationship, we must always remember to defend our core interests and values, in the spirit of a dialogue based on transparency and reciprocity, and remember that china still has a long way to go in respecting human rights, protecting workers and the environment and, in general, in making a complete transition to a market economy and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ the people's republic of china can be an important trade and political partner for the european union. its now established role as a major player on the world geopolitical chessboard should encourage us to evaluate our relations with china carefully and to encourage china to play its part in maintaining world stability. our political will to maintain good bilateral relations and our common interest in economic development and in the continuation of trade and economic and business cooperation cannot, however, prevent us from calling on the chinese government to respect human rights, to introduce reforms to promote freedom of thought and speech, to protect ethnic and religious minorities, and to give people the right to self-determination in their lives. china today is still far from being a free and democratic country: we believe that it can become so and that cooperation with the european union can help the chinese people in their civil and political progress.
in writing. - i abstained. the report calls for greater eu-china cooperation in addressing global challenges and threats, such as the fight against terrorism, illegal immigration, global and regional security, climate change or financial governance and the global market. the eu-china strategic partnership needs to be strengthened in a multipolar and globalised world: the european parliament calls for the negotiations on a new partnership and cooperation agreement based on trust, transparency and respect for human rights to be speeded up. 'it is underlined that the 17th eu-china summit of 29 june 2015 signalled a 'closer political cooperation that goes beyond mere trade relations and towards a coordinated strategic approach to address global challenges and common threats'. while it noted the concern over the current financial crisis affecting china, it said eu member states should take advantage of the opportunities offered by the growth of the chinese economy. the importance of the bilateral investment agreement currently under negotiation is also underlined, as it can pave the way for equal treatment of enterprises both in europe and in china.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this report to promote the eu-china strategic partnership. china is a major international power and one of the eu's main partners. the two sides have agreed to promote a comprehensive strategic partnership for the next decade. eu-china relations have recently reached a new and closer level of cooperation, going beyond mere trade relations, to address common challenges such as climate change and threats to international peace and security. on the economic front, however, much remains to be done to deal with the difficulties faced by european firms in the chinese market, for example in the field of technology transfer and the protection of intellectual property. finally, i think it is time for the member states to speak with one voice to the chinese government, especially on the issues of international cooperation and human rights dialogue. unfortunately, too often, european states prefer to focus on bilateral relations, thus contributing to undermining europe's credibility and making international cooperation less effective.
in writing. ‒ the belder report is very severe on the subject of human rights, elevating conditionality to the top of the criteria in eu-china relations, but it seems to do so, more than for european interests, in function of a chinese containment wanted by washington. this is evident when the hr/vp is asked to lead eu-china relations along a concerted line with the us. i wonder, therefore, when we shall have european strategic autonomy. the report also makes unacceptable assumptions for beijing on all international issues: the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, and to the development of a common foreign and security policy. and he does this by calling on china to cooperate with european instruments, but also with american initiatives, such as the new silk road or the imf. the contradictions and limitations of the institutional systems close to the usa, which are always considered positive, are never brought to light. in short, while maintaining an excellent line on human rights, i think that this report perhaps lacks an original perspective that would make the eu an entity separate from its transatlantic ally and endowed with strategic autonomy and its own interests. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i support the report by mr belder on eu-china relations. i believe that the 17th eu-china summit was important in strengthening the strategic partnership between these two countries. i also believe that this latest summit has helped to accelerate the ongoing negotiations on a new partnership and cooperation agreement based on trust, transparency and respect for human rights. the commitment to promote this partnership will benefit both sides, allowing for further implementation of bilateral relations and sending a signal of political cooperation useful in addressing common global challenges and threats.
in writing. ‒ the belder report covers a number of issues. it can be encompassed in five major macro-areas. overall it is very good, rigid on the subject of human rights, it highlights the contradiction between chinese statements and beijing's actual protection of human rights. it calls on china to cooperate with european instruments, but also with american initiatives such as the new silk road or the imf. the report never highlights the contradictions and limitations of the institutional systems close to the us, which are always considered positive. while it warns, for example, the eu states that will join the aiib that it must meet the criteria of social responsibility of the credit owed, it never questions that these same criteria are met by the imf. while maintaining a fine line on human rights, the report is an example of "asymmetrical" conditionality: it is tough on china, but mainly because the us is asking for it (at least this seems to leak between paragraphs of the report); the european union is a member of the european union, and it is not a member of the european union. for these reasons i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this year marked the 40th anniversary of the opening of diplomatic relations between china and the european union. today, partnership with beijing is certainly crucial to tackling the great challenges of global governance and the main issues on the international agenda. the resolution, adopted by a large majority in parliament, sets out a general and sectoral picture of the state of the relations and their possible future development. in particular, the resolution stresses that the union and its member states must be able to exploit the opportunities offered by increased trade and economic cooperation between the two sides. i believe, however, that this must be based and sustained on respect for shared and fair rules, based on the principle of reciprocity. in this sense, we must be clear: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted. the country is still far from meeting the world trade organization standards for such status. only with a different acceptance of responsibility on the part of china and through loyal cooperation can we bring about a fruitful advance in the quality of our partnership.
in writing. the belder report covers all the most relevant aspects of eu-china relations. the world's second largest economy, which continues to grow at an accelerating rate of 7.7% in 2013 is likely to become the world's largest economy within a decade. trade with the eu exceeds one billion a day and, after accession to the wto in 2001 and the likely recognition of china's market economy status, chinese competition will be even more pronounced, putting some italian industrial sectors under serious pressure. on a positive note, the belder report is very severe on the subject of human rights but, on a careful reading, it seems to be more about the intention to contain china, which is only a reflection of us policy towards beijing. it is a pity that the report fails to convince us of policies and positions which genuinely, if not ambiguously, protect european interests. although there were some positive elements in the report, i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for greater eu-china cooperation and on many issues i agree. but there are still too many areas which are deliberately left empty, unmentioned and not tackled with the right degree of incisiveness, such as the recognition of the esm or environmental and labour exploitation issues and many other things. that is why i cannot support the report.
in writing. the strategic partnership with china offers important opportunities for european economic development and useful support in responding to major global emergencies, as well as pursuing shared interests and choices crucial to growth and security. the chinese interest in the european market could be a decisive factor for the success of the juncker plan for the union: the commission has also concluded that the chinese exporting producers are not in a position to obtain a benefit from the measures. the european union cannot afford to let this opportunity pass, and so i am voting in favour of the belder report, firmly convinced that to reap the maximum economic benefits, the first requirement is to ensure fairness, transparency and compliance with anti-dumping measures to protect european rules for business and employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's non-legislative resolution on eu-china relations because i believe that this strategic partnership is of fundamental importance to both sides and represents the right path to finding common solutions to major global challenges. i find the political agreement on improving strategic infrastructure links between the eu and china very interesting and i note the need to cooperate with the asian giant in ambitious projects such as the one belt, one road initiative designed to build major links in the energy and communications sector in asia, which is undoubtedly a channel of global geostrategic importance. i would also like to stress the urgency of the environmental issue, especially in the wake of the cop21 summit and the red alert in beijing over the worrying levels of smog in the city. in this respect, i believe that greater cooperation between the eu and china is needed to tackle the major environmental challenges and the fight against climate change. i therefore express my concern about the human rights situation in china and the numerous and severe restrictions on freedom of expression, association and religion, especially for the tibetan people, and i remind you that under no circumstances should economic rights take precedence over civil rights.
in writing. ‒ china and the european union have been trading partners for a long time. europe buys 20% of chinese exports and china 10% of european exports and is not only interested in trade but also in investment. the eu-china relationship is also of particular importance in finding common responses to a number of global problems, such as the fight against terrorism and organised crime, energy security, climate change and sustainable development. the fact that china is a major international power and one of the european union's main partners means that there is a need for greater coordination between the two in areas of strategic importance. the european union and china must act and cooperate on defence and security and commit to protecting and promoting the human rights dialogue.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the positions expressed in this report. it is an attempt to underline the importance of exchanges between chinese and european citizens, and to express the hope that the chinese authorities will tackle the transition phase with due regard for the need to move towards a sustainable economy. parliament also noted that human rights in china remained a matter of concern. they want democratic reforms for the benefit of the people of hong kong. the european union is also calling for a comprehensive and comprehensive approach to the issue of the status of refugees and displaced persons in the region.
in writing. ‒ it is vital for europe to maintain good relations with china, which is undoubtedly an increasingly important global player. but these relations must be based on trust and on the basis of equality. in the investment and geographical indications negotiations, the eu and china are working towards a swift and ambitious agreement. the 'stone-clad' in bilateral relations, however, is the granting of market economy status at the world trade organisation. the chinese interpretation is that there must be an automaticity in this sense; the eu has long since made it clear, however, that recognition requires a number of criteria to be met. the commission has not established that the chinese exporting producers are in a position to obtain the benefit of the measures in question. however, there is still a lack of transparency in taxation and public procurement legislation, where foreign firms are clearly discriminated against and where appeal procedures are completely unsatisfactory. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of intellectual property rights. i voted in favour of the report because eu-china relations are evolving. but china must make sure that the distortions are properly corrected.
in writing. ‒ china and the european union have been trading partners for a long time. europe buys 20% of chinese exports and china 10% of european exports and it is not just trade issues, but also investment, which is developing rapidly on both fronts. chinese investment in europe has grown particularly fast in the years since the financial crisis, and in the last year the euro has depreciated against the chinese currency by 25%. but beyond purely commercial exchanges, we need to strengthen cooperation in security and defence, speed up the ongoing negotiations for a new partnership and cooperation agreement based on trust, transparency and respect for human rights, and tackle the great challenge of climate change. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it provides a balanced assessment of the growing ties between the european union and china, making a number of recommendations to improve and strengthen cooperation and the strategic partnership between the two sides, while clarifying some issues concerning the human rights and democracy situation in the asian country. although china is an important trading partner of the eu, i would like to point out that it cannot be considered a market economy country because it does not meet the five criteria for such recognition laid down by european law. a decision to the contrary would now risk exposing many european industrial sectors to unfair chinese competition with serious consequences and job losses. finally, i hope that the european union and china can adopt a coordinated strategic approach to tackling common global challenges such as the fight against corruption, economic and social progress inspired by the principle of sustainable development, disarmament and weapons of mass destruction, the fight against terrorism and climate change.
in writing. ‒ the issue of relations between our european union and china is very important; the european union is a country of increasing importance in a globalised world such as ours, with which we must certainly maintain good relations of cooperation and mutual exchange. but this exchange must be based on clear and shared rules. i am referring in particular to the granting of market economy status to china, which cannot be possible at the moment because beijing does not comply with most of the trade rules required for the granting of mes. i therefore look forward to ever closer cooperation between our union and the chinese government, in a system of clear and shared rules.
in writing. ‒ political conflicts, poverty and natural disasters are just some of the causes that can lead to the spread of humanitarian crises. more than 250 million people are already victims or at risk of humanitarian crises. in the run-up to the first world humanitarian summit in istanbul in may 2016, the european union has clarified its position and objectives. the report stresses the need to respect the union's fundamental values, to establish international cooperation and, above all, to focus the humanitarian response on protecting the population and preventing crisis situations. i voted in favour because i believe that the european union must be the main actor in ensuring a humanitarian response that is appropriate for the prevention and management of crisis situations.
in writing. ‒ the guerrero salom report, which analyses the preparations for the world humanitarian summit to be held in istanbul next may, is in part a shared text, but unfortunately there are some important areas of shadow that could give rise to criticism: the commission has not yet decided on the amount of the eu's future funding, nor has it specified which countries might receive it or where it would be used. for these reasons i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ the european union is a world leader in humanitarian aid, both in terms of its human and financial commitment. the last decade has seen a gradual reduction in the protection of humanitarian workers and the health facilities they operate in the emergency theatres: the commission has also received information from the united nations office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs (ocha) that the following persons have been arrested in connection with the attacks on the united nations headquarters in new york: there are many cases of facilities being targeted by military action, including the use of weapons of mass destruction. the eu needs to rethink its strategy to address the systemic challenges of the current aid architecture. the need to move from a culture of reaction to a culture of anticipation is clear: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the eu should rely on the european consensus on humanitarian aid as europe's shared and ethical approach to guide its contribution to the process of international support for humanitarian aid and also use it as a regional model to be actively promoted.
in writing. ‒ i abstain because the report does not specify: whether and how much future eu funding is possible; who the beneficiaries are; how will this funding be used and how and by whom will it be monitored?
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the preparations for the world humanitarian summit. since 2004, the number of people in need has more than doubled, to over 100 million in 2015. as the report highlights, the eu and its member states must take a leading role by setting an active example in ensuring both physical and psychological protection for vulnerable people. the next world humanitarian summit must find a comprehensive, comprehensive and long-term solution for the people fleeing in masses from the conflict regions. the european union must play a leading role in this respect.
in writing. ‒ the world humanitarian summit, to be held in istanbul in may 2016, aims to adapt the humanitarian system to the current rapidly changing emergency scenario in order to make humanitarian action more efficient and effective, ultimately shifting the emphasis from response to prevention and prediction. the eu is the leading donor in humanitarian action and the report aims to equip it to take a leadership role by sharing good practice that it has already been a protagonist in. the report, which limits the role of the private sector and the military in intervention, is certainly positive and i have therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. the summit next may should not leave europe unprepared: months of work to address the increase in migration flows has allowed us to develop some best practices that can become a model for humanitarian emergency management. the requirements are many: provide food, shelter, means of subsistence, medical care, practical assistance and psychological support. all this while ensuring, in all circumstances, full respect for human dignity and fundamental rights and avoiding any unjustified disparity of treatment based on ethnicity, religion, culture or nationality. we are asking for a further step, however, and that is to ensure, among other things, adequate education for children in emergency situations, through measures such as the creation of 'educational corridors' for students from conflict zones. we must ensure that, as provided for in the new york convention, education is guaranteed at all times, also as a key element in enabling the full enjoyment of all civil, social, economic, cultural and political rights in every part of the world. i therefore strongly support in particular the european commission's proposal to allocate 4% of the european humanitarian aid fund to these purposes. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i support the decision of the un secretary-general to convene the first multi-stakeholder world humanitarian summit (whs) to be hosted in turkey, as i firmly believe that the enormous humanitarian challenges of today require the development of a new humanitarian system that is more inclusive, diverse and truly global. the european union must promote a global consensus on humanitarian action, which reaffirms the principles of humanitarian aid, ensuring protection responses that are people-centred and based on human rights: the defence of key humanitarian principles and the continued commitment to them are fundamental to ensuring a humanitarian space in areas affected by conflict and natural disasters. in this connection, i would argue that there is a need for greater complementarity between humanitarian aid and development aid in order to increase effectiveness and fill the financial gaps in the humanitarian sector. this should be accompanied by an increase in funding for both categories of aid.
in writing. ‒ ban ki-moon convened the first ever 'world humanitarian summit' in istanbul on 23 and 24 may 2016, bringing together governments, un agencies (including the red cross), private actors and representatives of the people, with the aim of identifying new approaches to dealing with crisis situations. the european commission has prepared a document expressing its position in anticipation of the summit, urging the international community to reflect on the importance of conflict prevention, which must be the basis of humanitarian aid by all governments. apart from some divisions that have emerged between the various groups, i believe that the work done in preparation for the humanitarian summit is good in terms of the protection of rights in humanitarian emergencies. that is why i am voting in favour of the report.
in writing. - too general a relationship, you cannot approach such a sensitive subject in this way. it does not specify the beneficiaries, how these funds will be used and how and by whom their use will be monitored.
in writing. ‒ the year that is coming to an end has once again brought us face to face with dramatic humanitarian emergencies around the world. the problems in the countries neighbouring europe in particular have affected us very closely, generating an unprecedented migration phenomenon. today, more than ever, we must therefore redouble our efforts to provide humanitarian aid on the ground to people in need. i would like to mention in particular all the persecuted christian populations, too often forgotten.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the preparations for the world humanitarian summit: i believe that our world is increasingly vulnerable because of the diversity and intensity of famines, natural disasters, epidemics and conflicts that are prevalent in many areas of the planet. humanitarian assistance is facing increasing challenges and difficulties today, not only because of the disproportion between the costs of assistance and the reduction of available budgets, but also because of threats and armed attacks against humanitarian workers, which are also a violation of international humanitarian law. i therefore share the need to build a more inclusive and truly global humanitarian system, capable of responding effectively and efficiently to major global crises, of protecting the fundamental rights and safety of staff and those assisted, and of supporting improved dialogue between actors at all levels. finally, i share the call for the eu, which remains the largest donor of humanitarian aid, to take a leading role in the first un humanitarian summit (hum) in turkey and to promote a comprehensive agreement setting out precise priorities and modalities for humanitarian intervention.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report on the preparation of the world humanitarian summit. the enormous challenges facing the world humanitarian summit require the development of a new humanitarian system aimed at strengthening and promoting the protection of the principles of humanitarian aid, ensuring protection responses that are people-centred and human rights-based, and also empowering governments, local authorities and international organisations to promote action to ensure access to assistance for affected communities, in particular women, children and the most vulnerable, and their participation in relevant decision-making processes.
in writing. ‒ mr salomi's report aims to tackle the growing challenges in aid and humanitarian assistance. the eu could consider sponsoring a 'global consensus on humanitarian action', recognising the diversity of the current humanitarian response system and exploiting all complementary roles. i support it by voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ we express our strong support for this resolution, which has become necessary after the un secretary-general convened the first world humanitarian summit, to be held in may 2016 in istanbul. in fact, the world is facing humanitarian crises unprecedented in number, scale and persistence. funding has indeed grown, but needs have grown faster. furthermore, security risks can be increased by the perception that humanitarian aid is being used for political or economic reasons. we particularly welcome the rapporteur's work because it is based on the idea that the european union, as the leading donor and key player in humanitarian action globally, has both the responsibilities and the strength to take a leadership role in finding more efficient and effective ways of meeting the needs of people affected by conflict and disaster.
in writing. ‒ there are ongoing humanitarian crises around the world that are unprecedented in both scale and duration. constant and prolonged man-made conflicts and recurring natural disasters have fuelled a sharp increase in the number of people in need of humanitarian aid. this has pushed the humanitarian response system to its limits. in a context where the gap between humanitarian needs and the operational and financial resources available to respond to them is likely to widen further, un secretary-general ban ki-moon has called for an unprecedented first world humanitarian summit (whc). the humanitarian system will be restructured and adapted to a rapidly changing emergency scenario in order to make humanitarian action more efficient, effective and fit for future needs. the conference will focus on humanitarian financing, risk management, a culture of innovation in humanitarian aid and the essential role of ngos. i am voting in favour of the idea that, with less than a year to go from the summit, we can start doing something concrete to reduce and manage future humanitarian risks.
in writing. ‒ the base metal industry, such as steel, copper, brass and others, plays a key role in many industrial sectors and activities. the production and processing of these metals is currently in crisis, caused not only by environmental policies but also by the absence of investment policies to ensure the development and growth of this sector. the main objective of the martin report is to strike a balance between the need to invest in the base metals industry and the environmental impact, while also trying to minimise the possible damage to workers and inhabitants. this calls for greater transparency of information on emissions, investment and the health of the surrounding population. i have decided to vote in favour of the report because i believe that it is essential not only to improve the exchange of information on this subject but also to achieve a compromise between the needs of development and the social and environmental impacts of development.
in writing. ‒ while the causes of the decline in employment in the eu steel industry, which is likely to affect other key sectors, are properly analysed, the proposals to remedy this are too weak and lack the impact and strength needed to reverse the trend. i am convinced that only by giving back to the member states the instrument of monetary and exchange rate policy and by boosting domestic demand will the conditions be created for a genuine and lasting economic recovery. for all these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which deals in detail with the various sensitive points for the development of a sustainable european base metals industry. the basic metals (steel, aluminium, copper, tin, nickel, lead, cobalt alloys, molybdenum, magnesium and titanium) play a central role in european industry and are used in a number of strategic sectors: the automotive, aviation and energy industries; it is therefore important that decisive action be taken to start a process which will stimulate growth and competitiveness in a sector in which the european union cannot allow further dependencies to develop. the document stresses the need for greater internal integration of the energy market and the identification of investment strategies for development and innovation. it is good that the role that the implementation of a circular economy can play at each production site is highlighted, increasing efficiency and competitiveness through the valorisation of by-products from the secondary metals and recycled metals market. work is needed to ensure that the right economic incentives are developed, including through the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), for the development of this new production model.
in writing. ‒ the european steel industry has been hit by a severe crisis caused by the fall in demand, which in 2014 is 40 million tonnes lower than in the year of the beginning of the global economic and financial crisis. the reduction in demand has led to a historic trade deficit in europe, creating dependency and loss of industrial know-how, with repercussions also in the automotive, construction and low-carbon technology sectors. a strong european response is needed to these events because the proper functioning of the metal industry is fundamental not only to the well-being of our citizens but also to the maintenance of european independence. combining investment in innovation and research with the circular economy and sustainable production means achieving high quality production, minimising waste and producing knowledge and technologies that are not off-the-shelf but can withstand global market fluctuations and relaunch the base metals sector with a renewed and functional perspective.
in writing. - abstention from the vote. the commission also found that the union industry was not able to fully benefit from the measures in force. this capacity adjustment has been of such a scale that any recovery in european demand will result in a historic trade deficit in europe, generating dependency and loss of industrial know-how that will inevitably affect the automotive, construction and low-carbon technology sectors. the closures in the european aluminium sector, on the other hand, occur in a context of an increase in european aluminium demand in recent years, which has led to an increase in imports. climate policy is not the cause of the difficulties of these industries, but it is certainly one of the aggravating causes, as it has proved to be an accelerator of the process of relocation. to begin to remedy this, rather than foolishly insisting on the same sorcerer's apprentice policies, urgent measures must be taken to counter climate dumping by third countries: for example, by replacing the ets with a permanent border adjustment measure (carbon tax). the measures requested in the report are in the right direction, but they are fresh water.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today to stem the bleeding of capacity and jobs that has hit the european steel industry, largely due to the fall in demand which in 2014 remains 40 megatons below that of 2007. this capacity adjustment has been of such a magnitude that any recovery in european demand will result in a historic trade deficit in europe. steel and aluminium are two significant examples of the difficulties encountered in these professions which must at the same time continue the energy and environmental modernisation which would require an investment policy for which few of them have the means today. however, climate policy is not at all the cause of the difficulties of these industries, but this could happen in the future if the investment crisis continues and if a european industrial policy on raw materials and base metals is not activated. this industrial policy must have the tools and means to cope with the increase in the price of carbon which all the international institutions involved in the fight against climate change are calling for.
in writing. ‒ the base metals industry plays a key role in strategic sectors of our economy such as the automotive and energy sectors. dumping practices by third countries such as china have led to improper competition on the european market, which has created serious difficulties, particularly in the base metals sector. this, together with other factors such as electricity supply contracts, is causing european companies to under-invest in efficient and innovative long-term solutions, thus risking losing competitiveness and making the european economic system overly dependent on other countries. the resolution adopted aims to ensure minimum levels of protection for the european market by modernising trade defence instruments to ensure 'fair' competition between european and non-european producers on the internal market and subjecting operators to equivalent rules, so as to ensure, inter alia, compliance with carbon emission quotas. the resolution, inspired by principles of transparency, also focuses on the right of access to information by civil society and local communities, and pays particular attention to environmental protection. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because we europeans should be proud of our steel industry and should commit ourselves to defending it by applying all the instruments of trade defence, especially when we are talking about the growing unfair competition from outside europe, as in the case of china. we are well aware that the exponential growth of chinese exports to europe is a fact and that recognising china as a market economy would make it virtually impossible to apply the legal measures to protect european industry against that country. we are well aware that china has never so far succeeded in meeting the requirements for being recognised as a market economy, which are for example the absence of state interference, the absence of state-induced distortions on enterprises, the adoption of bankruptcy legislation that ensures legal certainty and stability or the respect of independent accounting principles in line with international standards in this field. i would remind you that recognition would mean that all anti-dumping measures to protect our industry would be abolished.
in writing. ‒ the subject in question although it may appear highly technical has innumerable implications in several areas of primary importance, all of which are closely interrelated. firstly, these metals are the basis of many industries and activities of undisputed importance. secondly, policies in the base metal industry are as a direct consequence likely to have a significant impact, either directly or indirectly, on european employment. in this connection, we must not forget that on the one hand this sector is under heavy international pressure (not to mention the very rapid steps taken by the chinese government!), and on the other hand it is characterized by the high energy requirements of these industries. the report in question - thanks also to the contribution made by the rapporteur, who has a great deal of personal experience in the field - is a good summary of the balance between the conflicting needs. in particular, the call for a fairer policy for indirect emissions compensation between member states and the introduction of border carbon adjustment should be noted, in order to combat international competition which is not subject to the ets constraints. for these reasons, i shall be voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european steel sector is not only of great historical importance for european integration, but also plays a key role in the development of the whole economy, both in terms of technology and in overcoming supply difficulties. however, the steel sector in europe is experiencing one of the most severe crises with the reduction of over 40 million tonnes of steel production capacity since 2008 and the loss of over 60,000 direct jobs and 100,000 indirect jobs. this crisis is making manufacturing industries more dependent on imports from third countries and is causing a loss of industrial know-how with immediate repercussions on millions of jobs and the competitiveness of the sector. the european parliament's resolution, which i voted for, proposes actions to revive the european steel industry on the basis of its sustainability, such as the need for immediate action against climate change and high energy prices, support for investment in the production of low-carbon metals, european measures to protect trade in base metals.
in writing. ‒ the martin report highlights, among other things, the fundamental issue of trade relations with major global partners, which have a major impact on the survival of our production fabric in this strategic sector. the european steel industry is going through a phase of deep crisis: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the steel industry is able to meet the demands of the market. there is an important passage in the report which refers to the possible recognition by the european union of the market economy status of china: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the price of steel is not affected by the price war. the acquisition of such status would have a disastrous impact on the effectiveness of european trade defence instruments and, consequently, on their ability to protect businesses and jobs. there are geopolitics and trade policy at stake, but in either case we cannot allow our companies, our workers, our citizens to pay the price. i firmly believe that european industry must be able to compete in the world on the basis of clear rules and on the same terms as its trading partners. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the report by mr martin, of the french socialists, focuses on the base metal industry. the role they play for european industry is very high. they are fundamental to many sectors and, as a result, have direct and indirect effects on employment and on a large part of the european economy. it should not be forgotten that they are used by industries with high energy requirements and therefore a balance must be found which allows industry to remain competitive without compromising energy and emission reduction policies. perhaps the most innovative contribution of this report is the call for the standardisation of indirect emission compensation policy among member states, also introducing a tool such as border carbon adjustment which aims to counter international competition which, as is often the case, operates under less stringent regulatory systems than those of the eu. i think this report has succeeded in balancing environmental commitment while safeguarding the rights of workers without prejudicing industrial needs. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ as in the previous report, the negative and more sensitive aspects are not dealt with in the appropriate pragmatic way in this report.
in writing. ‒ the metal industry is a vital sector of the european economy, a world-class industry that is experiencing great difficulties and needs greater protection and support from the institutions. we need a real industrial policy for the sector and a clear no to the recognition of china's market economy status, which is exercising forms of unfair competition against which our excellences must be defended.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep report on the development of a sustainable european base metals industry because i strongly support the idea of a strong, innovative and competitive european base metals industry, but also a clean one that generates quality jobs. i share the need for a european industrial policy in this sector that addresses the environmental and product competitiveness challenge and addresses the growing investment gap in new clean technologies, which would enable european industry to innovate and set production standards at world level. i share the call for a border adjustment mechanism extended to the whole supply chain, which avoids the offshoring of pollution and the shifting of european production to countries with less environmental sensitivity and lower co2 costs. i believe that european leadership in the fight against climate change must also be exercised by ensuring that competing producers apply our legislation in trade with the eu: the determination of the polluting characteristics of imported products is therefore essential. finally, i agree with the reference to the problem of long-term energy contracts and voluntary national offsetting of direct emissions, which generates unfair competition between european producers.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the motion for a resolution by parliament on the development of a sustainable european base metals industry. the report highlights the importance of the european steel and base metal industry to a range of industries, including the aerospace and automotive industries, by highlighting the growth in european demand for aluminium in recent years, which has led to increased imports. the basic metals sector needs to be developed in order to increase its competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ today's report addresses a central issue for the development model economic and environmental of europe today and tomorrow. if europe proceeds with the process of deindustrialization, it will lose not only a very important economic and employment sector, but a very important part of its history. the steel sector has been at the heart of the european integration process and still plays a key role in the development of the global economy. we are faced with a twofold challenge: how to keep an industrial sector, particularly steel, competitive while safeguarding the health of the planet. i think - and that is why i voted in favour of the text - that a good balance has been struck, without giving in to unfair practices by third countries, especially china, in their competition. it is not necessary to repeat here the figures on overcapacity, on the conditions of chinese workers, on the environmental conditions which allow for downward competition on prices and quality. since 2008, the steel sector has lost tens of thousands of jobs in europe. we need the measures taken today to support european industry, to respond effectively to the crisis in the sector and to stop the job bleeding.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the base metals sector has been severely affected in europe by a number of factors that have weakened its competitiveness both in the domestic and international markets. in particular, high direct and indirect energy costs, high environmental standards, a policy to reduce co2 emissions and unregulated foreign competition have led to many plants being closed. the fear that china could be granted market economy status has raised the alarm level of european producers even further. i am voting in favour of this report because it sets out some solutions for the development of a sustainable european base metal industry, such as harmonization of indirect cost compensation, an acceleration in the reform project of trade defence instruments and a more accessible energy market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the development of a european base metal industry because it stresses the importance of european industry, the very serious risks it is facing and the need to take urgent action at european level to save a sector of excellence in deep crisis due to foreign competition which is not subject to the same environmental and social standards. the main objectives of the report are the harmonisation of indirect cost compensation, the acceleration of the reform project of trade defence instruments and a more accessible energy market. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the martin report on the development of a sustainable european industry for base metals (such as steel, aluminium, copper, brass, nickel and lead). the industrial importance of these metals is evident, and the environmental and energy impact is also significant. we voted in favour because among the parts that have passed from the original text are the call for the policy of compensation for indirect emissions to be made fairer between the member states and the introduction of an innovative instrument, the adjustment of the carbon content at the border, to make fairer and fairer competition with countries which are not part of the union and which are therefore not subject to the ets. in addition, energy-intensive industries are called upon to make continuous efforts to optimise recycling measures and to reduce co2 emissions to ensure industrial competitiveness in the future and to meet the binding reduction targets set by the eu.
in writing. ‒ the crisis in the steel industry that we are witnessing requires concrete responses and a firm commitment from all the institutions. the positive vote on the martin report confirms the european parliament's determination to continue to keep the attention of all legislative bodies on a subject which has a direct impact on the lives of many of our fellow citizens who have lost their jobs. steel and aluminium are two significant examples of the difficulties faced by certain sectors which face competition from many third countries with abundant raw materials and lower energy prices and which require the utmost effort to create modern facilities with a low environmental impact. it is up to the european and national institutions to promote an industrial policy with the tools and means to move towards a low-carbon economy. environmental protection must, however, go hand in hand with far-sighted and fair energy and trade policies, which will help to protect europe's industrial fabric and bring it back to the centre of the world stage.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report 'developing a sustainable european industry for base metals'. the closure of many base metal production facilities is a problem affecting many european countries, with potentially harmful consequences for the continental production system. it is our duty to protect our companies and workers from unfair competition and social and environmental dumping. i think the text adopted today is particularly appropriate, particularly where it recalls that europe is already heavily dependent on imports of many raw materials and a new dependence on metals would certainly have a negative impact on many strategic industrial sectors for the union.
in writing. the industrial importance of common metals is indisputable, as these are steels and special steels, aluminium, copper, brass, nickel, lead, zinc, titanium and more. they are the raw material for many industrial sectors and therefore have a strategic impact of enormous scope on european employment, both directly and indirectly. these are energy intensive activities which need to be taken into account in energy policy and in the reduction of co2 emissions. the sector is currently facing unfair international competition, mainly from china. this is a price clash with economies which must not be subject to the innumerable restrictions on labour protection and emission reductions to which european companies are subject. the most innovative aspects of the proposal are aimed at this, namely the requirement that the policy of compensation for indirect emissions be equitable between the member states and the introduction of a system for adjusting the carbon content at the border, with the aim of countering precisely that international competition which is not subject to the restrictions of the emissions trading system. in the light of these developments, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i find the joint resolution tabled by the left on the situation in hungary to be partial and not to be shared. i therefore voted in favour of the text tabled by the ppe group which endorses the political choices made by the legitimate hungarian government.
in writing. ‒ there are reasonable grounds to believe that viktor orbán and his collaborators are trying to transform hungary into a state devoid of the basic elements of a free and democratic country. the continuing violations of civil rights, freedom of thought and opinion, the possibility of acting in the political context under conditions of equal treatment, together with the continuing nationalist, xenophobic, racist and sexist campaigns carried out by orbán and his power structure, constitute an alarming sign of the authoritarian transformation of this member state. the authoritarian transformation cannot be tolerated by the european union, which must take strong action to remove the danger of dictatorships from its territory and to restore democracy, freedom and the possibility of civil coexistence in hungary.
in writing. ‒ the resolution supported by the left is absolutely unacceptable for political reasons, merits and opportunities.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in hungary. the country was experiencing a severe internal deterioration in freedom and pluralism, with a tightening of penalties and the proposal to reintroduce the death penalty. it is therefore possible to speak of an illiberal drift for hungary, a drift which was also condemned by this parliament in the resolution adopted on 10 june this year. hungary has been a member of the european union since 2004 and must be reminded of all the principles on which the eu is founded: the european union is committed to the promotion of freedom, democracy, respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law.
in writing. in several european countries, values such as democracy, tolerance and equality are now being jeopardised by an increasingly aggressive policy. we are concerned about this trend, and we are particularly concerned about the situation in hungary, where the government has long since adopted tones and concrete measures which depart from the values and fundamental principles of the european union, and even from those minimum requirements (the 'copenhagen criteria') which every country must have in order to join the union. the commission, in its role as guardian of the treaties, must constantly and firmly ensure that fundamental rights and the rule of law are respected in each member state. only then can the union remain true to its founding values and reaffirm its role and its raison d'être. we cannot allow undemocratic tendencies to creep into our common life, risking the disintegration of a europe already tested by crises on several fronts. economic difficulties or the management of migration flows cannot be an excuse for the weakening of the union, but tests to be overcome unitedly and guided by common and indispensable values. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i felt i had to vote against the joint resolution because i share the commission's position that the conditions for activating the rule of law framework in relation to hungary are not in place. in addition, the commission is constantly monitoring the situation and has already initiated infringement and pre-infringement procedures where deemed necessary.
in writing. ‒ following the resolution of last june, this text is a new call from europe to the hungarian government of orban to put an end to the systematic threats to press freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law; today we also express our deep concern at the recent and unspeakable measures to criminalise refugees, migrants and asylum seekers and at the increasing use by the government of disturbing xenophobic rhetoric. in a europe which must first and foremost be a community of values, it is not possible to tolerate such repeated violations of the principles and rights on which our union is founded. we have already repeatedly asked the commission to examine in depth the measures taken by the hungarian government. but it 's not enough . we call for the immediate triggering of the procedure provided for in the treaties in the event of a serious breach of the values on which the eu is founded. on this point it is regrettable that the necessary votes for a more courageous position of the european parliament were not obtained and that the request for a thorough monitoring of the hungarian situation is simply being renewed. we will not compromise our core values: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is fully implemented throughout the eu.
in writing. ‒ the joint resolution supported by the left groups is absolutely unacceptable as it is a clear invasion and violation of competence against the legitimate hungarian government.
in writing. ‒ i shared the ep resolution on the situation in hungary: the commission has also received a letter from the president of the republic of moldova, mr liikanen, on behalf of the union, in which it expresses its concern about the situation in the country. i believe that joining the eu cannot be just joining the internal market, much less a free trade area, but also joining the fundamental values that the eu protects and represents, including respect for human rights and the duty of solidarity. the initiatives taken by the hungarian authorities had already raised concerns and prompted parliament to take a decision last june: i am sorry to say that the recent measures have made the situation worse, forcing the commission to open an infringement procedure. i am very concerned about the behaviour of the hungarian authorities in managing the migration flow, both in terms of the measures taken and the rhetoric used, and i particularly reject the decision to block the mechanism for distributing asylum seekers. this form of populism is not only contrary to eu values, but is also fuelling the rise of eurosceptic parties in other member states. i therefore agree with the request to initiate the procedure laid down in article 7 of the teu.
in writing. the legislation of each member state must be in line with the principles of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. i have a deep respect for universal human rights and human dignity, but i believe that what has happened in hungary needs a careful and objective assessment, which is not influenced by political or personal assessments. i therefore hope that any behaviour contrary to international or community law will be dealt with in the appropriate bodies. at the same time, i do not support today's proposal, as i think further evaluation is necessary.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against this resolution because i believe the european commission's communication to be reliable, according to which the conditions for hungary to apply the eu framework for strengthening the rule of law do not exist. i also think that the request made in this document to activate article 7 to the detriment of hungary is inappropriate, since it provides that, on a reasoned proposal from one third of the member states, the european parliament or the european commission, the council may find that there is a clear risk of a serious breach by a member state of the values on which the european union is founded.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution because i believe that while hungary is wrong in pursuing a policy which is in clear contradiction with the guidelines set by the european union, it is also true that a large part of the european left continues to express an attitude of complete closure and ideological criticism of the government of viktor orbán. this behaviour, far from helping to reach a common solution, only exacerbates relations and freezes dialogue with a country which is a member of the european union at a very difficult historical moment when mutual and virtuous cooperation between states is clearly preferable.
i would like to thank mr preda and mr lambrinidis for the work that has been done in recent times. i hope we can all agree that the european parliament's annual report on human rights is not an empty, rhetorical ritual but an important moment in evaluating the policies pursued by the european union and indicating what needs to be done in the future. we are living in a time, mr commissioner, when rights are being presented as a luxury which is incompatible with the economic crisis, with the shrinking of financial resources, with free trade agreements, with the need for stability and the urgency of providing protection and security to a public opinion which is increasingly confused and frightened by the wave of terrorism. but we have to ask ourselves: the moment the promise of rights is not fulfilled or is removed, what are we saying goodbye to? we must be aware that when individual rights, civil rights, rights to work, health and education are restricted, this is affecting the very foundations of democracy. so let us be clear, and let us try to put it as it is, it is not rights that are insatiable, but the claim of the economy to determine which rights are compatible with it. the reflection on rights thus brings us to the heart of a cultural debate which goes beyond contingency and reveals how references to the economic crisis or to the new geopolitics have only made more evident a far deeper transformation and conflict which concern the very node in which we must look at the evolution of our societies and of the global society itself. we have no doubt. it is precisely in these difficult times that more rights are needed, not less rights, and the criteria for their distribution must be based on the obligation to make their implementation possible. because the problem we have is not the excess of rights, but the denial of them, caused by inequalities, poverty, conflict, discrimination and violence against women, which erase the very dignity of the person. we have a problem here, a problem with our consistency. it would be appropriate to show that we are not afraid to assert rights against anyone, that we are not too realistic and that we are not guilty of hypocrisy. to meet this challenge everywhere, the european union must be able to insist on these issues and to show the necessary consistency. the european parliament has a duty to help the people of europe to win this challenge to rights, and to win it everywhere, and to affirm that this context, which is the civil, democratic context represented by europe, still has something to say in the world.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are again debating and voting on the report on human rights and democracy. i am grateful to mr preda, the rapporteur, for his remarkable effort, which was also made with the best of intentions. we are calling for the promotion of human rights outside and within the eu and we are also calling for support for democratic states and the rule of law. we welcome our ambitious action plans, and we are renewing our long-betrayed conditionality and our compassion for the terrible plight of refugees and migrants. but it is enough to look at the concrete choices of the eu and the member states to see how the double standards are usually applied according to the usefulness and importance of the interlocutor; to see the criminal work in africa, south america and asia, of our corporations that take over land and natural and human resources without even looking at the faces of their victims. moreover, austerity policies deny human rights, even in our own countries. i am afraid that this year too the union's actions will be far from our intentions and will again be marred by the hypocritical application we have seen so far, just like the christmas we will be celebrating. i wish you all the best and especially those who are still able to live with the shame of business as usual and above all, who are still able to lie to themselves. so many uncomfortable and hypocritical wishes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the instrument of the human rights report should be the instrument we use to consolidate, strengthen and monitor human rights in the world, but also to assert leadership in that direction. yet, although i acknowledge that mr preda has done a very good job of sharing with all the shadow rapporteurs from all the groups, we are still far from acceptable standards. because it is true that there are ambitious things in this report, we are talking about commercial issues such as sanctioning human rights violations against our companies, protecting minorities, but from another point of view there are words on one side and facts that go completely in another direction. and then we have two hands that are out of alignment, the words or the awards that we hand out, like this morning's sakharov prize, and on the other side there are our trade policies which are the real aggressive policy of the european union and they continue to do big business with the sheikhs and support everything the opposite of what we are saying here. let us remember that the human rights of other men are our own.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is curious that, apart from the intentions of the rapporteur, whom i thank, we have heard talk of the rights of everyone else, the roma, migrants, surrogate children, and then there are 25 million unemployed european citizens who are not far enough away from having guaranteed human rights and democratic spaces. it is curious how this parliament insists on bringing turkey into europe, which has been occupying a member state of this european union for forty years and does not recognise the armenian genocide. it is curious how for many of these meps the enemy is putin and russia against whom we are waging an economic and political war, without any kind of sense, while it would be more useful to have him at the table for collaboration against those who really deny human rights, because speaking of homosexual minorities, i remember that in nine islamic countries there is the death penalty for the crime of homosexuality. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we help those who bring stability. i personally visited morocco. i think it is an absolutely interesting example of religious and ethnic coexistence, let us help this country to stabilize the area of western sahara which is under the influence of islamic terrorism, let us help it to develop it, not with the libyan iraqi model. i am asking this parliament and this commission not to export rights and democracy to iraq as they have tried to do in libya, because we are still reaping the disastrous results.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i wanted to ask my colleague, i agree with everything he said, but the question is this: but if what you say was awarded this morning, unfortunately only his wife came because we know that he is in prison, who is in prison because he cannot express his ideas and is in prison in saudi arabia where the european union does business all the time. then it's useless for us to say one thing and then do another. what do you think about that?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a few hours ago parliament gave its highest recognition to freedom of thought and expression, once again demonstrating its commitment to the promotion of human rights and democratic values in the world. raif badawi's chair was empty, an unfortunate but not unusual event in the history of the sakharov prize. perhaps more than any other political consideration, this fact is a testimony to the fact that many human rights and fundamental freedoms are increasingly under threat in many parts of the world today. it is enough to consider the fact that more than half the world's population still lives under undemocratic and repressive regimes and that the situation of children, who are the privileged victims of violence, trafficking, exploitation, mutilation and early marriage, is particularly tragic, as is that of girls and women who in too many countries of the world still do not enjoy the same economic, social, cultural, civil and political rights as men and who are still poorly represented in local and national decision-making bodies. we have the tools at our disposal to promote democratic values in the world and our commitment to supporting electoral processes is a testament to that, we are just trying to be more ambitious in our policy making and we do not hesitate in the face of individual measures such as economic sanctions to prosecute those responsible.... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to congratulate mr preda on his excellent work. the european union is founded on respect for principles such as freedom, democracy, human rights and the rule of law, and it incorporates both the internal and external policies of our institutions, rights that have been won through a tortuous and dramatic history, with determination and with sacrifice. i firmly believe in the role of the european union and its external action service as a guarantor of human rights in other parts of the world. we need our institutions to play a more decisive role and to propose alternatives with humility, without being arrogant or haughty. we cannot be indifferent to the cry of those populations subjugated by daesh terrorists such as the yazidis and the assyrians, the girls held hostage by boko haram and the kenyan populations constantly threatened by al shabaab. there are 230 million children in the world who live in regions where armed conflict jeopardizes their lives and their most basic rights such as access to water, and there are women and girls who are still victims of brutal practices such as genital mutilation. the eu can and must do more. i therefore join the chorus of those who welcome the adoption of an eu action plan to support democracy and human rights worldwide by allocating adequate resources. i would like to conclude with the words of pope john xxiii, who told us not so many years ago that "in human coexistence every natural right of one person entails a corresponding duty of all other persons", that is, the duty to recognize and respect that right.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to the end of a difficult year in which the economic crisis and wars have worsened human rights violations throughout the world. the european union must do more to promote the universality of human rights, a fundamental element in all its relations with third countries. let us not forget that the defence and promotion of human rights is not only a means of ensuring security and stability worldwide, but is also the basis of the new universal agenda for sustainable development, approved in september, and if we want to be credible actors on the international scene, we cannot fail to address domestic human rights challenges, such as the situation of roma and sinti, discrimination against lgbti people, violence against women and their rights, but above all the treatment of refugees and migrants who too often in our european union see their rights trampled on every day, as i had the opportunity to experience during a recent visit to an identification centre in italy. finally, in paragraph 114, i am concerned to see a judgment without appeal of pregnancy for others. the fight against exploitation must be balanced against the freedom of women to decide about their own bodies, and such a complex debate cannot be settled in one paragraph.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the preda report is very good, but think of the fact that in italy 170 women are killed in the family every year, one every two days, child soldiers are violated in their innocence, and women's wages, as has been said, are still lower than men's wages on equal terms. and then i would like to - since the commissioner is here - to appeal to our two sailors, the navy gunners, who have been in india for three years, that this too must be resolved. we're talking about sanctions on russia, i would take them off russia and put them on india.
mr björk, i have a question for you. will you take it? the honourable member is mr buonanno. (mr malin björk refuses to answer a question from mr buonanno.) it is the members' right under the rules to accept the request, if one does not want to accept it he is free to do so.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the challenge facing the european union today is to find the right balance between freedom and security. security should be a tool to achieve and guarantee freedom, which is a fundamental right. today, however, it seems that this balance is increasingly being shifted towards security at the expense of freedom. it is right and proper to identify migrants and asylum seekers, this is in the interests of the safety of the european citizens they welcome and it is also in the interests of the safety and rights guaranteed to third country nationals who ask to be taken in. so what's the solution? the solution is certainly not the use of force. the solution is certainly not administrative detention, and we have unfortunately seen in italy, for example, the extremely negative examples of the iec camps, the identification and deportation centres, where there have often been riots over the conditions in which the migrants who are detained and held in these centres are held. so what's the solution? what the five star movement has been proposing for a long time: the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the amendment of the dublin regulation, the creation of humanitarian corridors and humanitarian visas, so that there is already a title, these people are already identified earlier and greater security is guaranteed for european citizens and for the citizens who are received.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about immigration, europe is always repeating the same words: welcome, solidarity, integration. the italian government of the tragic renzi-alfano couple is openly opening the doors of their homes and hotels to all those illegal immigrants who are only partially refugees. what about europe? first he praises the great heart of italy which is hosting hundreds and thousands of illegal immigrants and then he sanctions italy for its inability to manage the migration flows. shame on you, shame on you all, the european commission and the italian government! i ask the commission: why don't we set up identification centers in africa to identify and assess who is eligible for refugee status there? why then do we not really distribute refugees to all 28 countries of the union without letting them die at sea on the lifeboats of human traffickers going to italy? why leave the incompetent italian government to manage what is now an uncontrolled invasion? mr commissioner, the infringement against italy will not help us and will not help us to control the arrival of new illegal immigrants, perhaps terrorists. it won't help anyone who's really escaping the war. it will not appease the anger of italian citizens, of those pensioners who survive on 400 euros a month while for illegal immigrants everything is free: food, housing, mobile phones, services. the italians starving, the illegals all in hotels as if they were on vacation. no, no, and no more!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i read in the commission's communication on the italian hotspots that rome must provide a legal framework for the use of force for fingerprinting and prolonged detention. it is difficult, say the lawyers, unless it violates two articles of the constitution. i wonder how we are going to deal with the detention and violence of refugees that is spreading in hungary, bulgaria, poland, france, spain. in italy, forced expulsions are also carried out when the courts suspend returns. the danish government has been confiscating the refugees' jewelry, excluding wedding rings, since sunday to pay for the expenses. it is serious that these measures are presented as urgent and mandatory to save schengen, that president tusk recommends eighteen months of detention of refugees, also to save schengen, that non-refoulement, habeas corpus, non-coercion on vulnerable persons or minors are not considered mandatory. we cannot simply impose repressive measures, whereas the charter and the treaties provide for rights and discretionary clauses which are very binding. if that is the price of schengen, no thanks! as a citizen, i will give up schengen without hesitation.
the public is welcome, but they can do anything in this chamber except applaud and dissent and show approval or disapproval. this is a very serious matter! and i'm asking the services of the grandstand to step in.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the efforts made to manage the migratory flows that have specifically affected certain european countries have been characterized by actions taken on several fronts in order to ensure the best possible reception for all migrants, refugees and asylum seekers. the necessary checks on those entering europe must be based on respect for human rights and must be carried out as quickly as possible, because the fight against traffickers and exploiters, as well as the prevention of other forms of crime, including terrorism, depends first and foremost on the correct application of the relevant laws. the controls must be reconciled with full respect for the dignity and fundamental rights of the person, so that we no longer have to deal with situations in which migrants are stuck in unsuitable facilities for periods longer than those provided for by law, in a state of obvious psychophysical distress and without adequate forms of assistance, including legal assistance. it should always be borne in mind that, on the basis of european legislation and in line with article 5 of the european convention on human rights, deprivation of liberty for reasons related to immigration is a measure that can only be used as a last resort and it is important to address the issue of the system for reporting possible violations of the human rights of migrants in reception centres consistently, also taking due account of the indications that may arise from the interventions of the european ombudsman. in my view, the new european border and coast guard corps which will be set up in the near future should already be able to include a fundamental rights office, which will work closely with all the actors concerned to support vulnerable groups such as children, especially unaccompanied children, who are at the greatest risk of becoming victims of organised crime, from the outset.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i thank you, madam president, you are much more democratic than the honourable member who did not allow me to speak earlier. i wanted to ask you, i agree with what you said earlier. would you be willing to do a guantanamo in europe?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what we have heard about the detention of asylum seekers and the use of force to register them is worrying. i visited an identification and expulsion centre in italy last week and found that people arriving are not being adequately informed about their rights, including the right to seek asylum. they are divided up, discriminated against on the basis of nationality between irregular and relocatable, and translated into centers where they are told that because the application is late they can be held for up to a year. the living conditions in these centres are terrible, there are also minors who should not even be there, and the method of calculating their age by examining their wrists has a very high margin of error and is completely inadequate. finally, people would register if they were given a clear perspective on their future. that is why the dublin plan and the relocation plan are seriously delayed and should have been started already.
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank colleagues for this very fruitful debate, for the very constructive and productive discussion. you know that my colleague dimitris avramopoulos, who is in charge of this subject, has already covered all aspects of these very challenging matters in his opening remarks, so i shall say a few words only. the commission is taking action to ensure full compliance with eu law in the area of asylum, and the right to asylum is a fundamental right and of course this means respect of all aspects of the asylum legislation. this is very important. the commission during the last semester has sent four reasoned opinions, 42 letters of formal notice and eight administrative letters in the field of asylum concerning the implementation of the eurodac regulation, and the transposition of compliance with the recast asylum procedures and reception conditions directives. i would like to stress and to focus on this. the right to asylum is fundamental and of course this means respect of all aspects of the asylum legislation. the commission remains fully committed to ensuring respect by member states of human rights and dignity when they apply european union law.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i cannot pretend to be an interpreter of the president of the european council, but i read in the letter he sent for tomorrow's european council - i quote him in english - that the protection of our external borders is not intended to scare off those who flee wars or persecution. europe is a community of freedom and will always provide shelter for those in danger. as the commissioners have done, i have explained the law on detention, and it is clear that the detention of asylum seekers cannot be seen or interpreted as the rule under any circumstances. if there are abuses, if there are situations where the european rules just mentioned by the commissioner or international rules are not respected, measures must be taken, since human dignity and human rights cannot be violated with impunity. since we are in a situation of crisis, it might be useful to review our basic texts, those which make the european union what it is, what it should be. these texts include the charter of fundamental rights. article 1 of that charter, what does it say? he says that "human dignity is inviolable. it must be respected and protected". what does article 18 say? that "the right of asylum is guaranteed in accordance with the rules of the geneva convention", etc. these are our guides, and of course everyone must respect our laws, our rules, including those seeking asylum.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
under rule 198 of the rules of procedure, the conference of presidents received a request from 283 members to set up a committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the motor vehicle sector. at its meeting this afternoon the conference of presidents noted that the request had been validly submitted by more than a quarter of the members of parliament and decided to table a proposal for a decision on the establishment of a committee of inquiry, its powers, its numerical composition and the duration of its mandate. the draft decision, b8-1424/2015, is available on parliament's website. the house will vote on this proposal at the start of the first round of voting tomorrow. amendments to the proposal by the conference of presidents concerning the numerical composition of the committee of inquiry may be tabled by 20.00 this evening. the house will vote on the appointments to the committee of inquiry on 19 january 2016.
i interrupt because we are not able to debate this, as you know, under the rules of procedure, and this decision was taken by the conference of presidents, which also set the timetable for tabling amendments. and of course, as regards the decision of the conference of presidents, we take note of it.
the agenda includes a discussion on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement [2015/2979 ((rsp) ].
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, 20 years after dayton, it is time we all looked ahead. looking ahead means looking at a common future inside the european union. the 20 years since 1995 have now proven beyond doubt that dayton has delivered on its main objective of bringing peace and stability to bosnia and herzegovina and enabling post-conflict reconstruction. but many challenges remain. much remains to be done to consolidate reconciliation. the dayton peace agreement has also become fundamental to rebuilding peace and advancing reconciliation in the broader region. it has played an important part in the efforts to rebuild dialogue and cooperation in the western balkans. some of the countries of the region, once enemies, have become signatories to the agreement and over time have become friends and close partners investing in their joint future in the european union. the western balkans region has moved a long way forward in the two decades since dayton. many countries of the region are candidates for eu membership, and bosnia is a potential candidate. bosnia has made considerable progress in its relations in the region – good neighbourly relations. the eu has been one of the largest donors to bosnia, both during the war and in the post-war reconstruction period. its presence largely focused on advancing political and economic reform and establishing a framework for the implementation of the eu’s stabilisation and association process, following the thessaloniki summit in june 2003 and the eventual integration of bosnia into the eu. in addition, at the end of 2004, bosnia also became the first country where instruments of both the cfsp and the esdp were deployed on the ground. the eu continues today to safeguard the dayton agreement through eufor althea. however, bosnia is no longer a security consumer state, but a security provider. it has effectively contributed to un and nato missions and, since 15 september 2015, it can also effectively contribute to eu csdp missions after signing its framework participation agreement in the eu crisis management operations. progress may be uneven at times, but the strong desire of the majority of the country’s citizens will continue to guide political leadership in the right direction. the country’s citizens demand socio-economic and other reforms to improve their daily lives. they call for progress on the eu path to give themselves and their children the perspective of life in a free, democratic, stable and prosperous society, a society which protects minorities and fully respects human rights and freedoms. these are european values which the people of bosnia and herzegovina share. we in the european union are fully committed to assisting bosnia and herzegovina in achieving this goal. in december 2014 the eu council agreed to engage in a renewed approach to overcome the stalemate that then hindered bosnia and herzegovina’s eu path. political institutions and leadership across the country have given their clear and unequivocal commitment to taking forward the reform required for progress on the eu path. much has been achieved in 2015 on the basis of this commitment. the stabilisation and association agreement entered into force on 1 june 2015. subsequently, bosnia and herzegovina’s various government levels agreed the scope and depth of reforms to be undertaken. in this respect, the first ever eu-bosnia stabilisation and association council took place last week with positive results, as indicated in the joint communiqué published on the day. the initial focus has been on the socio-economic area, but the reform process already covers a much broader agenda. we have worked closely with international partners – in particular with the us and international financial institutions – to help make these reforms happen. we will continue these joint efforts to empower the authorities in bosnia to take forward the transformation process effectively. this will not be easy, but it is certainly possible, and its success is fully in the hands of bosnia and herzegovina. at this point, bosnia and herzegovina is considering a possible application for eu membership. this is an achievement in itself and would have been difficult to think of only a year ago. but to make an application credible, bosnia will need to continue to prove its credibility by delivering on commitments made. over the last 12 months, together with the bosnian authorities, represented today by the chair and the members of bosnia’s presidency, we have engaged effectively. in this process the eu has responded with concrete deliverables to positive, constructive and concrete efforts undertaken by bosnia. it is now up to bosnia to give us good reasons to take a further step. in dayton the future of bosnia and herzegovina was shaped by the country’s leaders, together with the neighbours and the international community. 20 years after dayton the responsibility falls on bosnia and herzegovina and, following the steady steps of the past year, it is important not to jeopardise all that has been achieved so far. we truly hope that we will soon be able to open a new chapter in the history of bosnia and herzegovina. the eu is committed to doing all that is necessary on our side as soon as bosnia makes a credible step towards us. thank you for your attention. i am looking forward to hearing your views.
thank you, minister schmit, who will be with us in the replay. this is your last speech on behalf of the luxembourg presidency. we thank you for your availability during these months.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, two federal entities and ten cantons with their own government, one district and 143 municipalities, for a total of four levels of government and fourteen different parliaments and governments. the agreement is essential to freeze a conflict which has also frozen any concrete possibility for the country to emerge from a political paralysis, the result of crossed vetoes and an administration of colossal size and weight. bosnia must have a european perspective, but today, as today, apart from the inevitable socioeconomic reforms, its constitution, which is the fourth annex to the treaty, is contrary to the european convention on human rights, discriminates against citizens who do not belong to one of the three ethnic groups and is also in danger of imploding under the blows of the future referendum in republika srpska. if we really care about bosnia's future and its european path, we must put a serious constitutional reform on the table for the equality of all citizens, for a modern and fully democratic state, starting with the interesting draft of the venice commission. to say that everything is fine is to condemn bosnia to be the black hole of the western balkans for years to come.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as many have already mentioned, it is clear that the dayton agreements were necessary to put an end to one of the dirtiest and ugliest wars we can remember in europe, one which left us with a legacy of 110 000 dead, 2.2 million displaced people, and the legacy of ethnic cleansing. perhaps a mistake was made in not planning for the long term, because if twenty years have passed and we are still discussing the ethnic divisions that actually exist in bosnia-herzegovina, something else should have been done and has not been done by the international community. it is clear that the ideal solution, which is not feasible, would be an endogenous process within bosnia-herzegovina, leading to a new constitution, a new reorganization, but, i repeat, it is something impossible today that should make us think about how to think about a totally different approach to this country and this community which is geographically located in europe and it is important that it is stable for us.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the dayton peace agreement remains today the decisive diplomatic solution to a terrible war. the territorial integrity of bosnia-herzegovina has been preserved since then, and we must not underestimate this. in recent months, however, a willingness has emerged from all bosnian political leaders to commit themselves more seriously to reform. the association and stabilisation agreement with the european union was thus signed. we must move forward, overcoming the nationalist regurgitations that exist, the attempts at division that exist, and making the functioning of the institutions less complicated, inefficient and closed in the logic of ethnic groups. we must do our part and the bosnians theirs if they are to open the doors of europe to this tormented country.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the overall context of internal security in the european union has changed dramatically in recent years, exacerbated by the fact that the member states are the world's main arms exporters. we're talking about over 36 billion in exports in 2013. weapons which can hardly be traced back to legal trade flows, that is the real problem, which are directed at the security of the european union, but are not actually intended to feed what can be legal trade with the due ifs and the due buts. all these weapons and trade have fuelled and are fuelling terrorism and armed conflict. on the other hand, the rampant corruption in third countries affects the security of our citizens, with arms smuggling and trafficking entering europe unhindered by the almost complete absence of checks at the entry points. it is absurd that we are closing the frontiers, saying no to schengen, but at the same time we are able to have a certain amount of illegal arms within our european territory with a certain amount of peace of mind. so i am certainly in favour, as my colleague has said before, of more controls, of certainly having more information shared within the various european structures. i also believe that there should be a separation between weapons for military and civilian use, because technologies such as remote piloting systems, applied robotics and surveillance technologies could not only be detrimental to human rights, but could also pose a significant threat to europe's strategic interests and our digital infrastructure. i would like to conclude by saying that, as we have seen, isis uses european passports and weapons in the various attacks, and i believe that we should block trade with the countries that buy and sell arms to isis.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the sale of arms is always a difficult and very sensitive subject, and it is even more so in these years in which europe has seen the resurgence of wars and the return of terrorism with such virulence. i think we have to look very carefully at two phenomena that have been occurring in recent times. the first concerns the steady increase in the turnover of companies producing arms, not only those which are exported but also those which are stocked in europe. the second is the systematic, blatant violation of the eight criteria of the 2008 common position. they're breaches in plain sight. for this reason, a regulation is needed which not only establishes the authorities but also restricts the space for those who produce and sell arms and, above all, sets rules for the states concerned in this process. i would therefore like to highlight four of the aspects which have already been dealt with. the first is about transparency: it is unacceptable that the major european countries do not provide data on arms sales, unacceptable, also because behind it is the hypocrisy of those who say they want to fight war and terrorism and then do not do the minimum necessary to be able to govern this process. the second is the one concerning intermediation: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the third thing, which is very important, is that along with the sale of arms there is the sale of technologies, which are equally dangerous. finally, the sanctions. without sanctions, member states will continue to adopt uncritical attitudes and behaviour which are contrary to the arguments they support.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr valero's report stresses the need to speed up the adoption of new european measures on arms exports by the member states. i believe it is essential that the european union develops an effective and coordinated system of arms control which can bridge the deep differences between national legislation. common position 2008/944/cfsp provides a comprehensive legal framework for arms exports, but greater efforts are needed by member states to apply all eight criteria set out in that document. i would also like to point out that there are currently no common control procedures in specific technical areas, such as the conversion of military weapons into civilian weapons, the treatment of deactivated weapons and weapons for theatrical use, including in relation to their possible trade. in this respect, my country, italy, has adopted strict technical and administrative requirements to prevent illegal practices in the handling of weapons. these aspects should also be taken into account in the development of common and effective rules on arms exports, all the more so at a particular time in the light of the security situation we are living in.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on the day when we award the sakharov prize to the wife of raif badawi, for the umpteenth time several tons of bombs and ammunition are leaving from cagliari airport for saudi arabia. yes, the very country that has been bombing yemen for seven months, waging a war that has left four thousand dead and twenty thousand wounded. doctors without borders hospitals were not spared either. these bombs are italian, they are one of the many cases in which our dirty conscience in europe allows the arms lobby to prosper in its business as usual by happily exporting in violation of the criteria of 2008 and in particular of criterion two of the common position which continues to be totally disregarded. this is because there are no independent export audits and there are no sanctions for violations. with my amendment to this report, which is a truly outstanding piece of work by mr valero, and for which i am very grateful, we can correct this shortcoming and i appeal to the colleagues in the groups who would like to bury it and who are not even in the house at the moment. the world is watching, raif is watching, and you'll have to look in the mirror if you vote against this report.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs barbara lochbihler on having produced a report which is really aimed at strengthening human rights, which is not often the case. of course, we must not forget the reality of the facts, namely that vietnam is a one-party state and is living in a situation far removed from true democracy and the rule of law. the violations in this respect are innumerable and it is certainly a strategic country for the west, since it is one of the pieces of china's containment strategy carried out by the united states and this explains the great interest not only economically in it. but that's not our concern. what matters is that the eu-vietnam report is voted to promote not only human rights but also political participation, to have greater protection for workers and to safeguard the environment and to allow for real freedom of expression. there is a lot to be done, and we will not support the free trade agreement, but we will support the hope of this political relationship, as well as the hope of the vietnamese people. but we also call for concrete and, above all, immediate steps, because today's confidence can be revoked tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the partnership and cooperation agreement with vietnam is a fundamental step forward in relations between the european union and this decisive country. the report also mentions the fact that the united states has dropped more bombs on vietnam than in the whole of the second world war. vietnam has been experiencing strong economic growth for some years now, civil society has been mobilized, and important reforms have been implemented or are under way. i have seen firsthand how much european investment is increasing, the spread of our products, the respect we enjoy and, as far as italy is concerned, i say this with a pinch of pride, my country, the real love for our way of life. there is certainly still a lot to be done, and we have a long way to go in terms of freedom and human rights. this path will be pushed forward and verified, as the european commission said in its speech here in the chamber, by increasing our commercial, economic and cultural relations with the entire vietnamese people, in the awareness also of the conditions in which they have been forced to operate, also because of the mistakes or, in some cases, the real horrors that the west has committed.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, this has been a very useful exchange and i thank the members for the clarity of their interventions. once again, i would like to thank our rapporteurs, sandra kalniete and barbara lochbihler, for their sound analysis. i have listened carefully and taken note of the members’ expectations and concerns regarding the implementation of the partnership and cooperation agreement and, beyond that, regarding the overall relationship between the european union and vietnam. let me conclude by emphasising that, with the partnership and cooperation agreement and the free trade agreement, we are laying solid foundations for a maturing political partnership.
in writing. vietnam is one of the fastest growing markets in the world and currently one of the eu's most important partners in south east asia. it is enough to recall, for example, that the eu is the second largest export market and aid donor for this country, and the fifth largest investor. it is therefore of great importance to identify areas where cooperation should be improved in order to maximise the benefits for both sides while supporting the development of vietnam's capacity to promote respect for good governance, the rule of law and human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as mr albert dess said a moment ago, the agriculture committee of this parliament has considered this debate necessary in order to ask the executive to clarify certain ambiguities in the legislation on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions. there is a broad consensus on the non-patentability of essential biological processes for the production of plants and animals, as clearly stated in article 4 of directive 98/44/ec. however, recent decisions by the european patent office require greater clarity on the legal interpretation of european patent law. innovation in agriculture and the development of new plant varieties are crucial to respond to the challenges of food security and climate change and at the same time can give a significant boost to european small and medium-sized enterprises. while patents are designed to stimulate competitiveness and innovation by safeguarding economic investment, they can in some cases act as a brake on innovative development, particularly where essential biological processes are involved which have been used freely by farmers for years. we hope that, in view of future decisions by the european patent office, clarity will be found in finding the right balance between the protection of intellectual property and the legitimate access to and use of biological material derived from essentially biological processes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as you have heard, all the political families are concerned about this behaviour of the commission, which sometimes misinterprets directives. in this particular case, the opposition to the use of patents which has been expressed to you stems precisely from the fact that the commission has applied to the european patent office, particularly because the subject of this further request for interpretation is a very sensitive one for us, it concerns biodiversity, because the idea of patenting plant material is not only wrong, it is dangerous. we would draw your attention to two points. first, who can promote mass patenting? the big companies. in this area, innovation and research towards biodiversity have always been the heritage of small businesses, which have done a worthy job and which for this reason must be protected and helped. second theme: if we are moving towards a concentration produced by patents, it is clear that this will not stop with the products under consideration today, but will become the criterion, the system to be adopted for the entire chain, from agricultural production to food production, introducing negative innovations that would contradict, in contrast to what was the important step forward that the union has made in the defence of biodiversity and in research and innovation related to this species. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue-card question. i would point out that, unlike what has historically happened in the industrial production sectors in agriculture, innovation and research have never been developed towards the new by the large companies. it has always been the small producers who have built niche positions, which then expanded, to look with interest, with positive competition, at biodiversity issues. if we open up a space where the larger companies can fit in, we're going to have the opposite effect here of what has historically been the case in industry, where the big ones will destroy innovation.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i would like to ask my colleague, since i agree with her, what she proposes to do to defend small farmers, that is, what concrete measures would she take to defend them against the multinationals?
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ibrahim halawa is facing the death penalty, accused of numerous crimes, which are summed up in a single law, the law on protests. ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear: since al-sisi has been ruling egypt, we know very well that the situation is delicate and that we need to maintain a fruitful dialogue with that country, given its geographical position and the tensions that surround us. but it is also true that it is not acceptable for us that laws like this can be used and that people can risk the death penalty just for being in disagreement. so we should use the power of dialogue that many of the member states have with egypt to try to put pressure on the government to repeal such a law and to release ibrahim halawa.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ibrahim halawasi is facing a very difficult and harsh sentence in a mass trial, as has been mentioned, for his participation in the demonstration in downtown cairo in august 2013 and, despite being 17 years old and therefore a minor at the time of his arrest, the egyptian court has ignored this, in violation of the international convention on the rights of the child to which egypt is a party. halawa was arrested and detained in the early hours of the morning on the morning of the 11th of december 2014 and was subsequently held in detention in the united states until his release on bail on the same day. in may 2015, egypt sentenced five people to death, one of whom was the same age as ibrahim halawa. any death sentence is wrong, but it is even more wrong if it is imposed on a person who was 17 years old at the time of the crime, and it is clear that this is incompatible with egypt's international obligations. so we are concerned and we demand the full release of you and other prisoners who demonstrated that day.
member of the commission.– mr president, of course we are deeply concerned about the possibility that one of our citizens might face the death penalty. ibrahim halawa, an irish-egyptian citizen, now faces the risk not only of a lengthy sentence but also the death penalty, should he be convicted. we have closely followed ibrahim halawa’s situation since his arrest in 2013. the high representative/vice president federica mogherini herself has been in regular contact with the irish and egyptian authorities concerning his case. while this remains a consular issue, we have aimed to support irish efforts to achieve the release and improve the detention conditions of ibrahim halawa, working in full agreement with ireland in addressing his case in a coordinated manner. at the same time, we have sought to tackle the case in the context of a broader eu effort to address the human rights situation in egypt. last month we resumed the political and human rights dialogue with egypt, the first in five years. it is of particular relevance to the case at hand that we urge egypt to meet international fair trial standards. this includes trials without undue delays and requires that egypt refrain from mass trials and, consequently, handing down mass sentences. we of course noted our strong opposition to the use of the death penalty under all circumstances. we will be continuing discussions with egypt on justice in the relevant dialogue, in the framework of the eu-egypt association agreement. we will thus seek further improvements, including on judicial proceedings: not least with regard to minors who are detained with adults, rather than in juvenile detention centres, and who are tried as adults rather than by juvenile court judges. you will be aware that ibrahim halawa was 17 years old when arrested. we also systematically address mass trials, which violate due legal process as they fail to determine individual criminal responsibility by bringing identical charges against groups of accused. in addition, such mass trials bring prolonged detention conditions which are in breach of article 9 of the international covenant on civil and political rights. we are very pleased with the good cooperation with this house in our effort to improve the human rights situation in egypt and count on your continued support. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the situation in the maldives.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the maldives archipelago is not only the place of the beautiful beaches, blue lagoons and wide cliffs we all know, but also the place where many rights are violated. many workers, especially from bangladesh and india, employed in luxury facilities are exploited and underpaid. there is also a continuing abuse of the judicial system, with many political opponents being wrongfully accused and imprisoned. as if that were not enough, the growing religious intolerance is increasing the climate of terror and shrinking the space for any kind of public discussion. the government continues to violate international obligations on issues related to torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, discrimination against women, and political and civil rights. however, the worst human rights violation in the maldives at the moment concerns the reintroduction and possible application of the death penalty as a tool of political repression. we call on the european union and therefore on all the member states to recall our firm stance against the death penalty and the fact that the death penalty violates the most important right, namely the right to life, and inflicts the additional sentence of psychological torture.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are deeply concerned about the progressive deterioration of democratic standards and the growth of authoritarian tendencies in the maldives, as well as the repression of political opponents and the intimidation of the media and civil society. we want to insist that the maldivian government must respect the decisions of the united nations, which called on the authorities to release former president nasheed immediately. furthermore, members of the opposition facing charges must be guaranteed due process, in accordance with the maldivian constitution and international due process obligations. we call for an immediate end to all forms of violence, including against peaceful protesters, and for an immediate end to political interference in the maldives' judicial system. urgent reforms are needed to ensure the independence and impartiality of the maldivian judiciary, with the aim of restoring internal and international confidence in its functioning.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time we have spoken about the maldives, a country which is still a tourist paradise but increasingly a hell for democracy and human, civil and political rights. the current government is now in the grip of an incredible authoritarian turn that has also led to a strong politicization of the judiciary and corruption and above all tolerance towards islamic extremism. we have seen pictures of daesh flags parading through the streets of the capital and all this is happening while there is still a great curtain of silence, while our tour operators continue to propose it as a destination, as if there is no such thing as a population that is even 16 percent below the poverty line; the problem of climate change, which was vigorously tackled by former president nasheed, who was deposed and is still imprisoned without a fair trial, is also a non-issue. yes, we need strong and appropriate sanctions against those who are committing these flagrant violations of the rule of law. yes, assets must be frozen and yes, tourism must be stopped to strangle those who are destroying human rights. let's make the maldivian democrats feel our support because they need us now more than ever.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i wanted to ask my colleague, i agree with what he said, but since europe looks at the world and says human rights and we must be careful, would he agree to sanctioning china for example on the death penalty or saudi arabia on the death penalty? i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the death penalty, but that it should be a matter of the european parliament.
member of the commission.– mr president, i am speaking here on behalf of my colleague, high representative/vice- president of the european commission federica mogherini, who cannot attend today’s debate. we are here today to debate the human rights situation in the maldives. let me remind this house of the continued leadership of the maldives in the alliance of small island states (aosis) in the context of the cop21 negotiations in paris. what happened in paris is an important example of the role the maldives can play in the international community. the last debate in the european parliament on the human rights situation in the maldives took place in april. in the last eight months, the government of the country is increasingly pursuing policies that will isolate it from the international community – policies that are reversing the hard-won advances in freedom and democracy for which so many maldivians have dedicated their lives. the increased intolerance of opposition and free speech breeds a climate of fear and anger, with the very real risk of radicalism emerging in the country. the persecution and continued incarceration of opposition political figures undermines the credibility of the government. the lack of judicial independence raises serious questions about the rule of law in this country. serious concerns continue to be expressed, not only by the european union, about, firstly, political interference with the judiciary; secondly, the unconstitutional interpretation of laws; and thirdly, the overnight changes to the constitution aimed at consolidating power. it is essential that the government moves quickly to alleviate these widely shared concerns and restore the rule of law. real independence of the judiciary is paramount in preserving trust in the system and equitable treatment of all maldivians.on the positive side, the maldives are applying a de facto moratorium on the use of the death penalty. we encourage the authorities to maintain it in all circumstances, particularly in cases that involve juvenile offenders, and to work towards abolishing the practice altogether. the european union wants to make it absolutely clear that there will be a serious setback in relations with the eu if the maldives restarts executions after more than 60 years of moratorium. it would be a backward step which would not go unnoticed by the european public at large. the european union is increasingly concerned about the risk of radicalisation in the maldives and about the number of maldivians who are, unfortunately, joining da’esh or other fundamentalist groups in syria and iraq. the eu is ready to work with the government of the maldives to further the fundamental values of democracy, human rights and the rule of law, but it is the responsibility of the maldivian government to ensure the safety of the hundreds of thousands of tourists who currently visit the archipelago every year. the government of the maldives has accepted, fortunately, the offer of the eu to send a legal expert to assess the legislative framework, the procedures and practices of the judiciary, and the implementation of the new penal code. we hope this will help highlight those areas where respect for rule of law should be improved, in line with international standards. progress in the rule of law can be an important step for the government to show its willingness to cooperate with the international community on the critical issues of democracy and human rights. i hope to see this in practice.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes seven motions for resolutions on malaysia.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's free trade agreements are based primarily on economic criteria, taking account, within the framework of coherent policy, of respect for environmental and social standards, including human rights. human rights are mentioned in the preamble to the agreement, but it is not binding. malaysia, unfortunately, is still far behind in terms of the human rights of indigenous peoples and minorities and there are many violations. land rights are a major concern of ngos, the state plans to build fifty dams in the east of the country by 2030 to serious damage to the environment and the lands of the indigenous people. these could displace tens of thousands of people and flood hundreds of square kilometres of rainforest. there are big corruption problems, sarawak state is the object of speculation by all foreign investors. according to ngos, 80 percent of the rain forest has already been destroyed to make way for palm oil plantations. malaysia is actually one of the most corrupt countries in the world. now i say, let us use the instrument of free trade agreements to strengthen this defence of human rights because this is our chance.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a significant restriction of freedom of speech in malaysia due to criminal laws used to silence critical voices. particularly concerning is the sedition act, which has allowed more than a hundred people to be charged and arrested since the beginning of 2015. anwar ibrahim, a former opposition leader, was convicted of sodomy, as recalled in february 2015, and denied adequate medical care. malaysian cartoonist ulhaque has been charged under the sedition act for tweeting critical of the government in reference to ibrahim's conviction. media are facing increasing difficulties in reporting corruption allegations against the prime minister and malaysian lgbti people are criminalised under the anti-sodomy law. it should be remembered that malaysia is a member of the united nations security council and the current chairman of asean. the european parliament's request is clear: the european union has a duty to release the prisoners, to withdraw the draft national security council law, particularly with regard to the broad powers granted to the prime minister, and it is right to maintain a balance between safeguarding national security and, for us, the imperative of protecting civil and political rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the sedition act, the printing presses and publications act, the peaceful assembly act, the communications and multimedia act, the list of legislative acts and the various reforms of the penal code affecting the exercise of freedom of expression and assembly in malaysia is unfortunately very long. the country also suffers from high social dumping, corruption is rampant right up to the highest levels of government, and a forced politicization of the judiciary has led to trials against the opposition and political dissidents and even journalists, as happened for example with former opposition leader anwar ibrahim, now in prison on a downright ridiculous charge, which also shows how much the islamic courts and sharia have taken over the country. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. as the european union, we are a market of over 500 million people, we are an economic superpower and our trade agreements can be the ultimate weapon to become a human rights superpower as well. we can do this. if not now, when? europe, wake up and demand from our partners respect for those sacrosanct rights which are granted to every man.
member of the commission.– mr president, malaysia holds a prominent place for the european union in the south-east asia region. malaysia currently holds the presidency of asean at a time when important decisions are being taken towards creating an asean economic community. our bilateral ties have strengthened significantly through enhanced trade and investment, political dialogue and a variety of cooperation activities. but against this background, the european union is concerned about some of the developments that have taken place in this country since 2014, developments which have affected freedom of expression and the rule of law. we are notably concerned about the increase of the use of the so-called sedition act, as well as about the judiciary decisions regarding mr anwar ibrahim, the leader of the opposition. as regards freedom of expression and as you all recall, the eu regrets the increasing use since 2014 of the sedition act, despite the prime minister’s pledge to repeal it. in this context, i would like to recall that in april 2015 the high representative expressed public concern that this step would have implications for the exercise of freedom of expression. the high representative raised serious concerns regarding the due process of law after the conviction by the federal court of malaysia and the five—year imprisonment of the opposition leader in february this year. mr anwar had initially been acquitted before the decision was overturned. as a consequence he was deprived of his civil rights and lost his seat as a member of parliament. on 8 december, the european union concluded the negotiation of a new—generation partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) with malaysia. the european parliament has repeatedly called for the conclusion of this negotiation, which started in 2011. the new agreement includes specific provisions on human rights and the rule of law which will allow for an enhanced engagement on these matters, in particular through the establishment of a meaningful, broad-based human rights dialogue. during the negotiations, malaysia agreed to recognise that respect for democratic principles, human rights and the rule of law constitute an essential element of the agreement. we will continue to engage with the government of malaysia to step up our cooperation in the promotion of human rights, including as regards lgbti issues bilaterally as well as at the regional level with asean.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
in writing. ‒ i support the establishment of a committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector, and i believe it is the eu's duty to shed light on this scandal in the automotive sector, in order to provide definite answers and to ascertain the responsibilities behind it.
in writing. ‒ the proposal calls for an investigation into the alleged failure of the commission to comply with its obligation under article 14 (3) of regulation (ec) no 715/2007 to verify the test cycles used to measure emissions and to adapt them, if they are no longer adequate or no longer reflect real emissions, to adequately reflect emissions from actual driving on the road, despite information on serious and persistent exceedances of emission limit values in normal use of vehicles, in breach of the obligations under article 5 (1) of regulation (ec) no 715/2007, including the 2011 and 2013 reports of the commission's joint research centre and the research of the international council on clean transportation (icct) made available in may 2014. calls for an investigation into the alleged failure of the commission and the member states authorities to adopt appropriate and effective measures to monitor and enforce the explicit prohibition on the use of handling equipment laid down in article 5 (2) of regulation (ec) no 715/2007; i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the volkswagen scandal in the us is unheard of in market economies where many transactions are based on trust. in this case, trust has been betrayed and the mechanism that runs the economy has therefore been left without lubrication. there is undeniably also public responsibility for the checks that have not been carried out, but i have the impression that the committee of inquiry is a way of shifting the blame and responsibility, if it is proved, on to europe, which belongs to the member state in which this car manufacturer is based. it is not possible for this same country to do good and bad, to give credentials to the right and the left, and then, when it gets its hands in the jam, to blame the eu instead of criticizing itself. that is why i voted against the establishment of this committee of inquiry: yes to transparency, but let's wash the dirtiest laundry first and then we'll go on and define the rest.
in writing. - i vote for the clarification of this shameful scandal.
in writing. ‒ the volkswagen scandal has certainly shocked millions of european citizens who must be given an answer, but this is not the task of a committee of inquiry. the task of this parliament is to work on new regulations to prevent similar situations from recurring, legislation that will finally allow emissions to be measured in a realistic way, for the benefit of the environment, the citizens and, last but not least, the european car companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution establishing the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector, which was proposed by the envi parliamentary committee, of which i am a member, because i believe it is of paramount importance that in the face of the recent scandal involving a famous german car manufacturer, the ep, as the representative of european citizens and co-decision-maker with the council on the single market and the environment, should exercise its right of inquiry. the committee of inquiry is called upon to examine complaints of infringement of the extensive european legislation on this subject and of maladministration in the application of it with regard to the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector, without prejudice to national prerogatives. i therefore strongly agreed with the breadth of the mandate given to it and the duration of its mandate, 12 months in total, during which it will have to hear from experts in the sector, car manufacturers and other interested parties and draw up an interim report at the end of the first six months of the inquiry.
in writing. following the scandals affecting the car industry, it was decided to set up a committee of inquiry. the purpose of the review will be to ascertain any liability in relation to the failure to adopt appropriate and effective measures to enforce the explicit prohibition on the use of manipulating equipment in cars. i think that this should be clarified as soon as possible, by identifying any breaches or omissions, and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ following croatia's accession to the eu, it has become necessary to negotiate the modification of certain agreements with third countries, including vietnam. i believe that this text has not taken due account of the needs of our territories, which have suffered considerable economic damage as a result of the latest agreements between the eu and vietnam, and that is why i did not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ it is right that the republic of croatia, as a member state of the european union, also participates in the global partnership and cooperation agreements between the eu and foreign states. we consider it a due process.
in writing. ‒ with the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, it is necessary to negotiate the amendment of certain agreements signed or concluded between the european union, or the european union and its member states, and one or more third countries or international organisations. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the protocol to the eu-vietnam comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation which takes account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measure. the protocol incorporates the republic of croatia as a contracting party to the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and vietnam, of the other part, signed on 27 june 2012.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because it is a mere formality to be carried out in view of croatia's accession to the european union: the eu's international agreements are signed by each of its member states and therefore, with each enlargement, everything must also be accepted by each new entrant.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the recommendation concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of a protocol to the comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. - this is a very sensitive subject. the european parliament is asked today to give its opinion on a proposal for a comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the eu and a country which is a one-party state. this can only at first sight raise very great perplexities. however, we can only welcome the report in that it seeks to exploit the agreement in order to push vietnam to raise the level of respect for human rights. the report is very clear and very incisive on this subject, in several passages. my vote is therefore in favour.
in writing. the partnership and cooperation agreement, which we are called upon to discuss, represents another step forward in eu-vietnam relations. the republic of croatia has been included as a contracting party, since the act of accession provides that the republic of croatia is to accede to international agreements signed or concluded by the european union. i decided to vote in favour because the cooperation of recent years has brought positive results for european companies in vietnamese territory. i believe that this agreement will lead to a further spread of our products, with a positive effect on trade and an increase in the volume of european investment.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the protocol to the eu-vietnam comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation (to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union). the agreement aims to initiate cooperation in various areas, such as counter-terrorism, sustainable development and human rights, and to develop a comprehensive strategic partnership. it provides the basis for a more effective engagement of the eu and its member states with vietnam and represents further progress towards greater political and economic involvement of the union in south-east asia. on the basis of article 6 (2) of the act of accession of croatia to the eu-vietnam comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement, it is provided that croatia may accede to international agreements signed and concluded by the eu and its member states by means of a protocol annexed to those agreements.
in writing. ‒ the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and vietnam, of the other part, was signed on 27 june 2012. the proposed protocol incorporates the republic of croatia as a contracting party to the agreement and commits the eu to provide the authentic version of the agreement in the croatian language. i am voting in favour of the european parliament approving the protocol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation to allow croatia to accede to the comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the socialist republic of vietnam.
in writing. ‒ given that the needs of our territories, which have suffered enormous economic damage as a result of the latest agreements between the eu and vietnam, and in particular rice production, have not been taken into account, i did not intend to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the anticipated successful conclusion of the comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the eu and the socialist republic of vietnam is a sign of the willingness of that country to proceed along the path of opening up, modernisation and normalisation of relations that it has begun with the role it has assumed in asean in recent years. although there are still many steps to be taken, this process should be encouraged and the framework agreement should be approved as it is consistent with the cultural, economic and political interests of both parties.
in writing. - i vote against it. the italian manufacturing sector must instead strengthen the duties and barriers to unfair competition and the regulations to which european companies are subject. we must protect our farmers and businessmen.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of approving the eu-vietnam comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation.
in writing. - i voted for the measure. the recommendation concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part. the agreement strengthens sectoral cooperation in a wide range of areas. in particular, the agreement covers eu standard policy clauses on human rights, the international criminal court, weapons of mass destruction, small arms and light weapons, and counter-terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i consider cooperation with third countries to be essential. it is important to maintain and manage relations with non-eu states in the best possible way, also in order to raise europe's image as a group of states with an important role in solidarity and cooperation at world level. for these reasons i am voting in favour of approving the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the recommendation concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part.
in writing. - this is a very sensitive subject. we are asked today to give our opinion on a proposal for a comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the eu and a country which is a one-party state. this can only at first sight raise very great perplexities. however, we can only welcome the report in that it seeks to exploit the agreement in order to push vietnam to raise the level of respect for human rights. the report is very clear and very incisive on this subject, in several passages. my vote is therefore in favour.
in writing. the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation (pca) with vietnam is a significant step towards greater eu political and economic involvement in south-east asia. cooperation with vietnam is part of the wider context of cooperation with the member countries of the association of southeast asian nations (asean). i decided to vote in favour not only for economic reasons but also because the apec with vietnam contains the eu's standard policy clauses on human rights, the international criminal court, weapons of mass destruction, small arms and light weapons and the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu-vietnam comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation (resolution). the partnership and cooperation agreement aims to create a modern partnership based on shared interests and principles such as equality, mutual respect, the rule of law and human rights. vietnam is a valuable partner for the european union, especially in the field of climate change. a partnership agreement with vietnam can define future relations and strengthen cooperation in the face of global challenges, such as the fight against terrorism. in addition, a comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement can have positive effects on job creation and consequently on poverty reduction, positive effects in the tourism, economic and social sectors, and in the human rights sector.
in writing. ‒ the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation (pca) with vietnam was signed by the parties on 4 october 2010 in brussels and signed on 27 june 2012. the acp-vietnam agreement is a major step towards greater eu political and economic involvement in south-east asia, strengthens sectoral cooperation in a wide range of strategic areas and facilitates the conclusion of a free trade agreement with the country. i therefore vote in favour of the european parliament's approval of the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation authorising the council to conclude, on behalf of the eu, the comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation with the socialist republic of vietnam. this agreement provides the basis for enhanced mutual cooperation in many strategically important areas such as trade and investment, the fight against climate change, science and technology, energy, migration and employment. finally, i would point out that this new form of partnership represents a further step towards a more effective and more far-reaching political and economic involvement of the eu in south-east asia.
in writing. i have always been opposed to this partnership and cooperation agreement with the socialist republic of vietnam, which has not taken into account the needs of our territories and our production facilities, which have been severely affected by previous agreements with this country, especially in the textile sector and in rice and cereals production in general. the eu should put the interests of our citizens and our businesses first, not the exact opposite, which is why i did not support this text in my vote.
in writing. ‒ vietnam is making progress towards the normalisation of regional relations and the recognition of certain civil rights. such improvements should be encouraged and promoted with a view to full recognition of civil rights and respect for human rights. the situation of widespread poverty and poor sanitation still affect a large proportion of the population (including a large number of women and children). the commission has already taken a number of measures to help vietnam in its modernization process and in its fight against poverty. the comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreements in eu-asean relations are also important in this area. eu-asean cooperation could be further strengthened in financial sector development, transparency and coordination of macroeconomic policies as well as in the interregional détente pathway that the un has recommended for south-west asia.
in writing. - i vote against it. we are protecting the italian manufacturing sectors against an unfair competitor, free of the bureaucracy that our companies are forced to use.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the report with a non-legislative motion for a resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part. the agreement provides the basis for a more effective eu engagement with vietnam, given that vietnam has consistently adopted a strongly pro-european approach over the past decades. the agreement aims to establish a modern partnership based on shared interests and principles such as equality, mutual respect and the rule of law. let us not forget that vietnam has made great progress in achieving the millennium development goals over the past two decades. it is therefore important to deepen and broaden political dialogue and cooperation with the socialist republic of vietnam and to continue to support the development of vietnam's capacity to promote respect for good governance.
in writing. ‒ the lochbihler report stresses the fundamental importance of respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law and calls on the vietnamese government to implement the unhcr recommendations, to promote greater political participation in the country, to ensure labour protection standards, to apply a moratorium on the death penalty for 500 prisoners awaiting execution and to safeguard the environment by stimulating initiatives such as investment in solar energy and to rethink the choice to invest in nuclear energy. but we must not forget that vietnam is a one-party state and the vietnamese state is held firmly and centrally in the hands of the communist party. the report's merit is that, despite this, it does not renounce the attempt to engage in dialogue with the country, but rather tries to exploit the apc agreement to keep the vietnamese government involved, without any further detours off the right track. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i chose to vote in favour, as in the measure parliament welcomes the conclusion of the partnership and cooperation agreement with vietnam, underlining the strategic importance of vietnam as a key partner of the european union in south east asia and asean. the agreement defines future relations in a wide range of subjects, with a view to further strengthening cooperation in the face of global and regional challenges such as good governance and the fight against corruption, economic and social progress taking into account the principle of sustainable development, disarmament and weapons of mass destruction, and the fight against terrorism. parliament stressed the impact that a future trade and investment agreement could have on job creation and poverty reduction. it also hoped that the mutual agreement on respect for democratic principles and human rights would further the dialogue with the vietnamese government on the promotion of freedom of expression, assembly, association and religion, as enshrined in the vietnamese constitution and the european convention on human rights. the increase of the eu epa budget for vietnam to eur 400 million over the period 2014-2020 is welcomed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and i am pleased to note that it coincides with the 25th anniversary of the start of eu-vietnam relations. this country has proved to be an important reality and over the past two decades has made a strong contribution to achieving the millennium development goals (mdgs): the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. for these reasons, i believe it is important to implement and improve, through new projects and agreements, the relations between the two forces involved, in order to continue on the path of global development that has been fought so far.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the conclusion of the partnership and cooperation agreement with vietnam as this country is a key partner of the eu in south east asia and asean. the agreement will help to further strengthen eu-vietnam cooperation to foster economic and social progress taking into account the principle of sustainable development, as well as addressing important global challenges such as the fight against corruption and terrorism, disarmament and the abolition of weapons of mass destruction. i also believe that both sides will benefit economically from the ratification of the partnership and cooperation agreement, as the economic and financial reforms initiated by the vietnamese authorities will further contribute to vietnam's integration into the world economy.
in writing. - this is a very sensitive subject. we are asked today to give our opinion on a proposal for a comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the eu and a country which is a one-party state. this can only at first sight raise very great perplexities. however, we can only welcome the report in that it seeks to exploit the agreement in order to push vietnam to raise the level of respect for human rights. the report is very clear and very incisive on this subject, in several passages. my vote is therefore in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep's non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the eu and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part. i supported the agreement, despite the fact that vietnam still has the death penalty, is one of the main countries of origin of victims of human trafficking and does not respect all freedoms of expression, religion and non-discrimination. nevertheless, i felt that the partnership and cooperation agreement would not only promote the strong pro-european approach that the vietnamese government is committed to developing, but also the eu could derive indirect economic benefits through the promotion of decent working conditions and poverty reduction in vietnam. the agreement with vietnam will, on the one hand, allow the implementation of new legislation for the protection and freedom of human beings, and on the other hand, will be a great opportunity for the eu, because it will be able to strengthen its position in asia and play a greater role in the region; finally, the partnership agreement can be the instrument for promoting the basic objectives of peace, democracy and supranational sharing.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour, as the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation (pca) with vietnam is consistent with the eu's objective of creating a stable and cohesive economic and political framework in relations between the eu and the asean countries. i believe that the acp will strengthen trade cooperation in a wide range of strategic areas, such as taxation, migration, health, environment, climate change, energy, education and culture, labour, employment and social affairs, science and technology, transport.
in writing. ‒ 2015 marks the 25th anniversary of the start of eu-vietnam relations. these relations have rapidly expanded from trade and development aid to a more comprehensive bilateral relationship. the eu is vietnam's largest export market and vietnam has systematically adopted a strongly pro-european approach over the past decades and has actively engaged with the eu as a member of the association of southeast asian nations (asean) in a wide range of areas including trade and investment, development, economic and political affairs, and climate change. for the above reasons, parliament welcomed the conclusion of the comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement with vietnam, stressing the great strategic importance of vietnam as a key partner of the eu in south-east asia and asean. i therefore hope that the eu and vietnam will both derive maximum benefits from the ratification of this agreement, which i supported by voting in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the completion of europe's economic and monetary union because i believe it is a clear and timely text which can accurately outline parliament's instructions to the european commission on the future of the single currency. the report by the five presidents entitled 'completing europe's economic and monetary union' certainly demonstrates the european executive's will to move forward with the integration of the euro area, which will, however, need to have a single fiscal policy to govern the euro. the macroeconomic imbalances in the eu today are precisely due to this: the lack of european economic policy instruments capable of operating in the real economy. we cannot live by the european semester alone.
in writing. ‒ the resolution under vote is entirely ideological, biased and totally in defense of the eu's monetary policy which has generated the current crisis and brought our country to its knees. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ completing europe's economic and monetary union is as urgent and important as ever. we should be proud to have the euro, the common currency of 330 million european citizens and 19 states. however, it is not enough: we need an economic government of the union, to complete monetary and fiscal union, and to establish a common treasury for the euro area together with the legal parameters for the convergence of the different legal and financial systems of the member countries. this cannot be done without strengthening democratic legitimacy and citizen control over the institutions involved. the social aspect of the process must be prominent, implying a redistributive logic of the burden of financial shocks and a greater resilience of the emu system to global macroeconomic imbalances. in supporting the development of emu we must emphasize that its realization is not the end of a journey but one of the fundamental steps in the completion of the european union to realize the common project of a european federal state.
in writing. - i vote against it. the resolution is ideological and fully committed to defending the eu's monetary policy.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of this resolution to complete europe's economic and monetary union. i would like to make two points. the first concerns investment, which is known to be held back in the euro area by at least three factors: the commission has also taken note of the weak demand dynamics, the build-up of debt and the fragile confidence of the private sector. the eurozone needs to not only support demand but also tackle debt and fragile confidence. the european central bank must put in place monetary policy measures that can help support the economic recovery of the euro area. the second point concerns a proposal recently adopted by the college of european commissioners to improve the economic governance of the euro area. the euro area member states should have a unified representation in the international financial institutions, in particular the international monetary fund. if each member state of the eurozone speaks for itself, or worse if they contradict each other, the eurozone will never have the weight it should have. the completion of economic and monetary union depends very much on how it is implemented, whether the coordination mechanism is created to prepare the unified positions that the president of the eurogroup could and should present to the international monetary fund on behalf of all the member states of the eurozone.
in writing. ‒ this is a resolution with an oral question on the future of economic union which, despite the breadth of the subject, forcibly limits the focus to the democratic aspects related to the marginal role played by the european parliament in emu governance matters, deliberately omitting all the substantive and most controversial issues, and thus forgoing the opportunity to express parliament's position on the process of implementing the report of the 5 presidents. it is a renunciation of any serious debate on this matter in parliament and i have therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution tabled to take steps towards european monetary and economic union. the commission has done well to encourage this transition which is still to be made by presenting a package containing the steps towards the completion of economic and monetary union (emu), consisting of two communications, a recommendation relating to a council recommendation and a proposal for a council decision and a commission decision. with these measures, while recognising that some steps have been taken in the right direction, i think that further efforts will be needed to address the current shortcomings in achieving this objective. i therefore agree with this report and i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on economic and monetary union because i believe that it is a priority to achieve a union that is capable of achieving more growth, employment and prosperity for all citizens, but that is also built on solid foundations, able to face not only domestic but also global challenges, and able to absorb shocks by having sufficiently resilient economies. i am aware that employment and social developments have been examined in detail in the country reports during the year, but i would like to stress the urgency and the need to improve the labour market and social performance, especially to restore confidence to all unemployed young people.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on which we are called upon to vote today represents yet another missed opportunity for parliament to address issues of the utmost importance! despite the breadth of the subject, it artificially focuses only on the democratic aspects related to the marginal role played by the european parliament in emu governance issues, deliberately neglecting all the substantive and most controversial issues. parliament thus forgets the opportunity to express its position on the process of implementing the report of the five presidents. once again, form was preferred to substance: the text is the unsatisfactory result of a compromise reached in a few hours between the main political groups and adopted at the cost of the mass withdrawal of the amendments which were on the substance. this resolution (which therefore in no way reflects the position of the econ committee, which is clearly divided on governance issues) has the effect of stifling any possibility of political debate and silencing the voice of smaller groups. the resulting text, which we are asked to vote on today, is, it is emphasized, a text which says absolutely nothing. i can only vote against.
in writing. - the worst is never over. it persists despite the damage and deaths caused by this insane economic policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on completing emu because i believe that we must move forward vigorously with the implementation of the report of the five presidents, building on the latest communications adopted by the ec which fall within the so-called phase 1 of the roadmap, aimed at strengthening emu. there are currently shortcomings in the institutional framework of the euro area and further efforts are therefore needed. it is a matter of political will, as the treaties already allow progress to be made towards completing emu, but this will have to be done with greater democratic control by the ep, to ensure the ownership of the euro area governance by the european citizens. i therefore shared the ep's call for the opening of negotiations on an interinstitutional agreement (iaa) on european economic governance, including the european semester and the monitoring of the implementation of the macroeconomic adjustment programme with the ep, the council and the eurogroup, as provided for in the same report by the five presidents. to this end, i consider the democratic control of the ep to be of particular importance, particularly with regard to the recommendations concerning the euro area. the strengthening of the euro area will also depend on the completion of the banking union, through the european deposit insurance scheme.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution. i believe that the european semester is the most efficient form of coordination of european economic policies. i support, however, the demands of this parliament that the commission should be involved to the fullest extent permitted by the treaties in the decision-making procedures of the european semester. i believe in a europe of the peoples, economically and politically integrated, and this is not possible without the ever greater participation of the european parliament, the only institution directly representing the citizens.
in writing. ‒ despite the many steps forward made, further efforts are needed to complete economic and monetary union (emu) and to address the current shortcomings of the euro area institutional framework. the president of the eurogroup, jeroen dijsselbloem, said that monetary union must be completed by creating a real banking union with a deposit guarantee and by increasing the european fund for strategic investments. the eurogroup president also stressed that debt continued to hamper growth and that fiscal policies should continue. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution but i hope that the package published by the european commission containing the steps for completing economic and monetary union (emu) will leave more room for the parliamentary scrutiny and debate at european level which are necessary to ensure democratic accountability for decisions taken in the context of emu and, consequently, to ensure citizens' ownership of the governance of the euro area.
in writing. ‒ the economic recovery of our continent is unfortunately still very fragile and to boost growth we must make the best use of the instruments at our disposal, so it is necessary to strengthen economic governance and fully achieve the economic and monetary union of our continent. we have created emergency mechanisms, new institutions to strengthen economic cooperation, but that is not enough. we must first complete the banking union, to give strength to our banks, but also and above all to savers. new instruments are also needed, such as the european fund for strategic investments. this is a first step in the right direction, but it needs to be strengthened to allow greater credit flows to enterprises and more action is needed to strengthen domestic demand.
in writing. i voted against this report on the future of economic and monetary union, as it is an empty and inconclusive text which does not in the least call into question the current proposals to complete and further strengthen the construction of the eurozone, despite the fact that the failed experience of the euro, as evidenced by the crisis of recent years, suggests that it is going in the opposite direction. the report is essentially a sham attempt to find solutions to the very serious and intolerable problem of the complete lack of democratic control over key economic policy decisions inherent in the current framework of economic governance. the report also fails to address a key consideration on the sustainability of the single currency and the need to radically rethink the current governance framework, putting national sovereignty over democratic monetary and fiscal policy choices at the centre and defining a plan for a controlled and orderly dissolution of the eurozone. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ despite the breadth of the subject, this resolution, which i rejected, forcibly limits the focus to the democratic aspects related to the marginal role played by parliament in emu governance matters, deliberately omitting all the substantive and most controversial issues, and thus forgoing the opportunity to express parliament's position on the process of implementing the five presidents' report. the final text is the unsatisfactory result of a compromise reached in a few hours between the main political groups, which also involved the mass withdrawal of amendments that went too far into the substance. this is a resolution which has stifled any possibility of political debate and the voice of smaller groups and which in no way reflects the position of the econ committee, which is clearly split on governance issues. in the econ committee we had tabled a number of amendments which highlighted key issues related to the failure of the euro, the inadequacy of the governance framework and the instruments available, and which reiterated that the lack of democracy can only be addressed by recognising the democratic sovereignty of the member states over monetary and fiscal policies. these amendments, like most of those tabled by all the political groups, have simply been ignored or rejected.
in writing. ‒ the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world not only allows an assessment of the actions taken in the past year, but also ensures that european citizens are better informed about european policies in this field. the work presented by the rapporteur, mr preda, calls on the european institutions to make more effective and effective use of the instruments provided for the respect of human rights and democracy in third countries. the european union should first of all support and encourage the process of democratization and the building of democracies on the ground. it should also make further efforts to protect specific areas of action, such as freedom of conscience, freedom of belief and respect for the rights of women and children. i voted in favour because the report not only gave a positive account of the instruments used in 2014, but also proposed additional forms of intervention to ensure better implementation of european human rights objectives.
in writing. ‒ respect for human rights is at the heart of the eu's principles and i am convinced that it should be included in all agreements with third countries, but this is a well-established practice that the eu often willingly ignores, preferring to give priority to the economic interests at stake or failing to assert its political weight adequately. the solutions proposed in this report are too weak and i believe ineffective in achieving the ultimate aim which is pursued, and for these reasons i have not voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the eu annual report on human rights and democracy in the world is a key instrument for the union's external action, which, in accordance with article 21 of the treaty on european union, must be developed around the principles of democracy, the rule of law and the universality of human rights, allowing them to be promoted on a global scale. the european union must therefore ensure that our external action is consistent with our internal policies, on the assumption that respect for fundamental rights and freedoms must be the guiding principle of the union's action on the international scene. if europe is to continue to be the guarantor of human rights in the world, it must first set an example of respect for these rights within its own borders. in this connection, i welcome the fact that human rights are increasingly at the heart of the dialogue between the european institutions, particularly within parliament, and i think it is highly desirable that every instrument designed to protect them is effectively deployed. not only that: the promotion and protection of fundamental rights must be integrated into all union policies in the external dimension, with particular attention to neighbourhood policy and development cooperation.
in writing. ‒ it is worrying that human rights and the democratic values of freedom of thought, speech, religion and association are so threatened today in many parts of the world, particularly under authoritarian regimes. in the face of the shrinking of public and democratic space in the world, and considering that an increasing number of human rights defenders are undergoing physical and psychological attacks, it is clear that, in order to live up to its commitment to promote human rights and democracy in the world, the eu and its member states must speak with a single and coherent voice, so that their message is heard. enhanced cooperation between the commission, the council, the eeas, the parliament and eu delegations is necessary in order to improve the overall coherence of the eu's human rights and democracy policy and its centrality in relation to all union policies with an external dimension, in particular in the areas of development, security, employment, migration, trade and technology. human rights and democracy in the world will not be able to take firm root if democratic countries do not act in a manner consistent with their values in all possible circumstances, including those of economic and financial bargaining.
in writing. - unbalanced and instrumental text. as usual, the eu points the finger at some countries but forgets others with whom it does business. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world in 2014 and on the european union's policy on the matter, which has captured a dramatic situation. many countries have seen restrictions on non-governmental organizations, serious human rights violations against activists, and attacks on journalists and bloggers. a situation that seems to have gotten even worse in 2015. much more must therefore be done to guarantee fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity and the principles of equality and solidarity. in europe, respect for human rights is an element which must be a priority on the agenda of the community institutions and the member states. the report highlights all these elements and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which expresses the will to take decisive and coherent action to consolidate respect for human rights and democracy in third countries. together with the rapporteur preda and the other shadow rapporteurs, we have focused our attention in particular on human rights defenders, the rights of indigenous peoples, the rights of migrants and refugees, sport and human rights, freedom of thought, conscience and religion, the fight against torture and discrimination, lgbti rights, the rights of persons with disabilities, the rights of women and girls and the rights of children.
in writing. - i voted for the measure. welcomes the adoption of the european union annual report on human rights and democracy in the world in 2014; considers the annual report to be an indispensable tool for monitoring, reporting and discussing eu policy on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in the world. expresses its deep concern that human rights and democratic values, such as freedom of expression, thought, conscience and religion and freedom of assembly and association, are increasingly under threat in many parts of the world, particularly under authoritarian regimes; it also expressed deep concern at the fact that the public space for civil society is shrinking and that an increasing number of human rights defenders are under attack worldwide. it called on the eu and its member states to step up their efforts to put democratic values and human rights at the heart of their relations with the rest of the world, in line with the commitments made in the teu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the european union has always fought for the protection of what it considers to be the basic human rights for a society that guarantees the well-being of its citizens. in particular, the international covenants on civil and political rights, the covenant on economic rights, freedom of religion and expression, the protection of minors and women and the promotion of fundamental human rights are of great importance in the european context. i think that in too many countries these rights and social considerations are not guaranteed nowadays, and the example of freedom of the press and of speech comes to mind, which in some african and some oriental countries are not fully guaranteed. i believe that the eu must be at the forefront of the fight to protect these principles and act as a global force for the rights that have largely been achieved in our union. to this end, i welcome and agree with the description guidelines and policies set out in the above report.
in writing. ‒ the report underlines the importance for the european union to use the policy instruments at its disposal to promote respect for human rights and democratic principles worldwide, and reiterates the need to implement a new eu action plan on human rights and democracy 2015-2019. i have decided to vote in favour of adopting the european union's annual report on human rights and democracy in the world in 2014 as it is an indispensable tool for monitoring, reporting and discussing eu policy on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in the world. i also hope that the eeas and the commission will ensure that the issues raised in the annual report are dealt with in practice and that multilateral organisations, in particular the un, the oecd and the osce, will work to improve international cooperation in the field of human rights and democracy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because the european parliament's human rights report is the important instrument for monitoring, reporting and discussing eu policy on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in the world. human rights are of crucial importance in the eu's relations with other countries and regions of the world. human rights work can help prevent and resolve conflict and ultimately alleviate poverty. the report emphasised the eu's commitment to upholding and promoting respect for human rights and democratic values in its relations with the rest of the world; it was emphasised that democratic regimes are characterised not only by free and fair electoral processes, but also by freedom of speech, press and association, the rule of law and accountability, the independence of the judiciary and an impartial administration. in the annual report, parliament focused on very important issues such as human rights and trade, human rights and development, indigenous peoples' rights, the rights of persons with disabilities, lgbti rights, etc., strongly condemning the death penalty and torture.
in writing. ‒ the actions of undemocratic and repressive regimes, armed conflicts and aberrant business, speculative and power logics are the reasons for the systematic violation of human rights in much of the world. inequality, abuse, crime, poverty, exploitation of resources, precarious working conditions, poor quality of services and limited access to them undermine basic social and economic rights and deteriorate the living conditions of entire populations. respect for the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights are indispensable to the full realisation of human potential and to shared well-being. the european union and the actors of international cooperation must continue to strengthen all measures to monitor, prevent and punish human rights violations and to intensify actions aimed at the overall democratization and transparency of political, institutional and economic decision-making processes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world in 2014 and on the european union's policy on the matter, because i believe that respect for human beings and their freedom is a cornerstone of europe's external action. the current geopolitical developments are a worrying development, with the spread of authoritarian regimes and terrorist groups that spread terror among civilians and commit deplorable acts against opponents. i am deeply concerned that freedom of expression, thought, religion, association and all other democratic values are increasingly under threat in the world. it is no coincidence that yesterday the european parliament awarded the 2015 sakharov prize to raif badawi, a saudi activist who was sentenced to ten years in prison and a thousand lashes for apostasy for criticizing religious leaders. finally, i stress the importance of closer cooperation between the member states and the international community in order to contribute to the elimination of all forms of violence and discrimination and to promote recognition of the universal values of democracy and in particular the rights of lgbti people, women, the disabled, minorities and all vulnerable groups.
in writing. human rights and democratic values are the very basis of the european union. the member states therefore have a duty to step up their efforts to defend and promote these rights, placing them at the centre of their relations with the rest of the world. this report focuses on the eu's external policies aimed at promoting human rights through greater coherence between the eu's internal and external policies. finally, i would like to remind you that only joint action by the member states will make it possible to tackle the difficult internal challenges in the field of human rights.
in writing. ‒ surrogacy should be banned. this practice undermines the human dignity of women because their bodies and reproductive functions are used as a commodity and because it involves reproductive exploitation and the use of the human body for economic or other gain, particularly in the case of vulnerable women in developing countries. with these words, the european parliament, in adopting its annual report on human rights and democracy in the world in 2014, affirmed a fundamental principle of civilization, which protects the dignity not only of women but also of newborns, reduced to mere "products" of this horrible market. in its report, which welcomes the universal message of pope francis, the report also calls for the abolition of the death penalty and strongly condemns human trafficking. contradictorily, because some paragraphs of this same text violate the principle of subsidiarity, treating in an unacceptable way certain fundamental values concerning the protection of marriage and human life, i had to abstain on the final vote, but on the whole the assessment remains positive. surrogate motherhood, the last frontier of exploitation of man by man, must be categorically banned.
in writing. ‒ the 2014 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on the subject illustrates the eu's ongoing efforts to promote the universality of human rights everywhere. during 2014, the eu launched formal human rights dialogues and consultations with 37 partner countries. in june 2014, on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of the adoption of the eu guidelines on human rights defenders, the particularly significant role of women human rights defenders and defenders from vulnerable and marginalised groups was highlighted. in december 2014, the eu guidelines on freedom of expression were adopted at the annual eu ngo forum on human rights. but despite the many efforts made, human rights and democratic values such as freedom of expression, thought, conscience and religion and freedom of assembly and association are still increasingly at risk in many parts of the world, particularly under authoritarian regimes. there are some references in the text to sensitive ethical issues which i think deserve to be dealt with elsewhere. therefore, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ although i agree with some of the points in this resolution, i am not entirely convinced by the solutions proposed in it, and therefore i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ twenty years ago, the dayton agreement launched a slow process of stabilisation and reconstruction in bosnia and herzegovina. a lot has changed since 1995: bosnia and herzegovina has gone from being a war-torn state to a potential member of the european union. bosnia was the first country to have cfsp support deployed on the ground and eufor althea is still contributing to the safeguarding of the dayton treaty clauses. the agreement stopped the war but much more needs to be done to create a democratic and inclusive society. progress in bosnia and herzegovina is uneven and slow. a vigorous constitutional reform, the resolution of the country's major socioeconomic problems and the removal of divisive tendencies and paralysing ethnic ideologies are fundamental conditions for the construction of a strong democracy. the european union will do its part, but it is essential that there are strong endogenous drivers within the country as well as greater participation of civil society in this change. over the past 12 months, the eu's engagement with the bosnian authorities has been reinforced to ensure that progress made so far is not jeopardised and to renew its commitment to building a fully functioning democratic state.
in writing. ‒ the dayton peace agreement ended the bloody war in bosnia and herzegovina, the bloodiest and most devastating conflict to have struck the periphery of europe in the last thirty years. today we can acknowledge the positive transformation that the federal republic of bosnia and herzegovina has undergone over the last twenty years, from a country just emerging from the ravages of war to a state aspiring to join the european union. the eu is committed and must continue to be committed to the european perspective and to the continuation of the accession process of bosnia and herzegovina and all the countries of the western balkans. regional cooperation and the process of european integration are the most appropriate approaches to promote reconciliation and to overcome hatred and divisions between the peoples of the area. the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement is an incentive to encourage the country's authorities to pursue the necessary reforms, giving priority to the socioeconomic needs of the citizens alongside political reforms aimed at democratizing the system of government and ensuring real equality and democratic representation of the three peoples constituting the federal republic of bosnia and herzegovina and all citizens of the country.
in writing. - i vote against it. the resolution rightly argues that the dayton agreement has failed to create a functioning and self-sufficient state and that the country's institutional set-up is too complex and has proved ineffective. what is the solution proposed? the accession of bosnia and herzegovina and the other balkan countries to the eu. she's going to be a witch doctor. like going from the frying pan to the fire.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement, which had the merit of officially recognising the presence in bosnia and herzegovina of two well-defined entities. however, today the country is stuck in economic stalemate and ethnic divisions that unfortunately persist. yet something is moving. after years of continuous postponement, bosnia has promised to submit its application for membership of the european union by the end of the year. in a country that has never ceased to feel european, europe is seen as the best solution to rebuild a disastrous economy, weakened by hasty privatizations and youth unemployment of nearly 60%. our role must be to facilitate this process of european integration and at the same time to call for the systemic and socioeconomic reforms needed to continue on the path of change and convergence towards european standards to be tackled decisively and directly.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement. this treaty was signed in paris on 14 december 1995 and brought to an end the bloodiest war in europe since the second world war. although it ended the war, the agreement did not create a functioning and self-sufficient state despite successive governments, which can be considered a failure of europe, especially given the imminent application of bosnia and herzegovina for eu membership. i believe that our union must be fully engaged, show solidarity with third countries in difficulty and insist on the need to fully implement the annexes and the related strategy in order to ensure sustainable return as well as fair, comprehensive and lasting solutions for internally displaced persons, refugees and other persons affected by the conflict; the report is comprehensive on these issues and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. the dayton peace accords marked the end of the most devastating conflict in europe since world war ii: it caused more than 100,000 deaths, millions of displaced people and horrific atrocities including mass ethnic cleansing campaigns, genocide and numerous war crimes. recalling that this agreement paved the way for peace in bosnia-herzegovina, i decided to vote in favour of this resolution, which reaffirms the eu's commitment to supporting the accession process of bosnia-herzegovina and all the countries of the western balkans. cooperation and the process of european integration are the best way to promote reconciliation and to overcome internal hatred and divisions.
in writing. ‒ the dayton agreements, signed on 21 november 1995, were a crucial step for bosnia and herzegovina, the balkan region and europe: the european union is a major player in the process of european integration. while there is little doubt that since that day, in the last twenty years, some progress has been made towards a democratic transformation and stabilization of bosnia, on the other hand, there are still persistent ethnic and social differences, which are holding back the development of the country. for this reason, as the joint resolution adopted in the chamber emphasizes, i believe that a concrete commitment by bosnia-herzegovina, assisted and supported by the european institutions, is necessary for the implementation of the structural reform agenda which was set out on the basis of the association and stabilisation agreement with the european union of last june. only their full implementation can lead bosnia to stability and ethnic reconciliation, greater protection of human rights and the consolidation of its democratic institutions: the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome.
in writing. ‒ the resolution rightly states that the dayton agreement has not been able to create a functioning and self-sufficient state and that the country's institutional set-up is excessively complex and has proved ineffective. but the conclusion, namely that rapprochement/inclusion in the eu is a continuation of the wrong steps that have already been taken.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution supported by the s&d group and various other politicians on the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement in 1995, a historic act that ended the tragic war in bosnia and herzegovina. it is necessary, however, to remember the tragedy of that war, its hundreds of thousands of victims and the psychological, social and economic repercussions it still has. although the process of reconciliation for the bosnian people is still long and complicated, today bosnia and herzegovina looks to europe with particular interest and therefore welcomes its positive transformation from a war-torn country to aspiring member of the european union. i hope that one day, not too far away, this will be achieved, because it will be a further sign of stabilization in the balkans.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. the anniversary of the dayton agreement should be an occasion to commemorate the innocent victims of a war between peoples which has wounded europe in its heart and to offer our condolences to their families. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the united nations charter and the european union's common foreign and security policy. the measure in question calls on the institutions and the states concerned to put in place all the necessary procedures to ensure that this happens as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the arms export discipline is regulated not only at european level, by common position 2008/944/cfsp, but also at international level, thanks to the arms trade treaty. nevertheless, the share of arms exports by member states is still very high and, unfortunately, in particular political situations such as those in the territories of ukraine or syria, such arms end up in the hands of terrorists and oppressive regimes. the valero report illustrates perfectly how, even in the presence of a specific regulation on this subject, there are still ambiguities and limitations which should be resolved. a coordinated approach by the member states is therefore required in respecting and resolving legislative ambiguities, as well as in providing for a sanctioning regime and an independent control system. for these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour of the amendments drawn up and proposed in the report, in the hope that a more effective arms export regime will be established.
in writing. ‒ while i agree with some of your proposals, some of the points in this report remain ambiguous and do not fully convince me, so i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ public scrutiny and transparency of equipment or goods that can be used for dual purposes (civil and military) is particularly important nowadays, as the border has become unstable with new technologies. robotics and video surveillance technologies, together with remote controlled aircraft control devices, are just some of the new technologies whose commercialisation requires particular attention. the modernisation of dual-use export controls and the commission's intention to present a new legislative proposal in the first half of 2016 for effective policies to regulate the commercial export of services related to the implementation and use of dual-use technologies, while including effective safeguards to prevent such export controls from harming scientific research and in the field of cybersecurity, is to be welcomed and we believe that this report is a useful step forward towards the adoption of more effective and shared tools.
in writing. - i abstained. the existence of the natural right of individual or collective self-defence, in accordance with article 51 of the charter of the united nations (the natural right of individual or collective self-defence, in the event of an armed attack against a member of the united nations, as long as the security council has not taken the necessary measures to maintain international peace and security), the legitimacy of exports in accordance with the criterion and the right to self-defence, and the supply of defensive weapons in the event of legitimate defence are supported.
in writing. ‒ after careful consideration and debate in the house, i have voted in favour of the report on arms exports: the union shall contribute to the implementation of common position 2008/944/cfsp. i believe that the international arms trade and its regulation are of strategic importance and a means of strengthening international stability and security, in the difficult balance between the controlled proliferation of arms and the existence of the natural right of individual and collective self-defence. i am convinced that the major exporters have a great responsibility in terms of the overall impact, and they must respect the standards of transparency, information and common positions. it is well known that the military strategy of terrorist organisations is strengthened precisely in the gaps of european harmonization, so the rules laid down in the common position must represent the minimum standard which in any case allows the adoption of stricter national rules. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i have chosen to abstain, following the position of my group. i believe that measures of this magnitude require greater coordination between the groups.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain on the report by mr bodil valero on arms exports. i share the alarming statements in the report. it is important to monitor the illegal arms trade but also the legal arms trade especially given the times we are living in these days, where every single shipment of arms traded can end up in the wrong hands. i do not agree with what mr valero has said in his report about the additional methods that would be created for these checks. i think that certain innovations would only lead to populism, creating structures which would only superimpose on existing forms of control. it is important in these cases, in my view, not to risk further bureaucratizing the control of certain commercial practices. for these reasons, i shall abstain.
in writing. in the context in which we live, this relationship takes on even more importance. i voted in favour because i share the need for greater controls and for greater information sharing between the various member states, the latter and europol and eurojust, as well as with third countries, in order to reduce the illegal arms trade. i also believe that there should be a separation between weapons for military and civilian use, because technologies such as remote piloting systems, applied robotics and surveillance technologies could not only be detrimental to human rights, but could also pose a significant threat to europe's strategic interests and our digital infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ as is often the case, even in the case of arms exports and the very serious consequences associated with them, it is not so much a question of a lack of rules as of their application. common position 2008/944/cfsp on arms exports is a legally binding framework that sets out eight criteria that member states should apply when licensing conventional arms exports. however, it is clear that something is seriously wrong, as the report on the vote today also points out. situations such as ukraine, syria, iraq, libya and yemen show how arms exported by member states sometimes end up in the hands of terrorists, repressive regimes or countries that use children in hostilities. some 500 000 people die every year from gun violence and the member states are major arms exporters! as this report points out, the problem is that the common position is not being respected! for this reason, i agree inter alia with the need for stricter application of the criteria by the member states; on the establishment of an independent european arms control authority; the commission has also set up a mechanism to monitor the possible diversion of exported arms. my vote is in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because the eu member states are among the world's leading arms exporters, with eur 36,711 billion in global exports in 2013, of which eur 10,735 billion between member states and eur 25,976 billion to third countries; common position 2008/944/cfsp on arms exports is a legally binding framework which sets out 8 criteria that member states should apply when licensing exports of conventional arms. the resolution notes that developments in recent years indicate that something has gone wrong. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of children in the production of weapons. the resolution stresses the need for stricter application of the criteria by member states, clarification of the criterion requiring that exports be prohibited where there is a clear risk that the technology will be used for internal repression, the creation of an independent european arms control authority, the introduction of mechanisms automatically freezing the ability of member states to export to countries to which an embargo has been imposed.
in writing. ‒ the arms trade is the world's leading market for death and violation of fundamental rights. member states are among the world's largest arms exporters, and this seriously undermines the eu's credibility as a global champion of human rights. the maintenance of peace, the prevention of conflict, the strengthening of global security as well as the economic, social and political stability of geographical areas necessarily require clear and shared rules to avoid the risk that arms exports could be used to commit or facilitate serious acts of violence, to undermine security and the environment, to carry out internal repression or to support terrorist organisations. transparency and public scrutiny must be at the heart of any procedure to combat the ambiguities and limitations of such trade.
in writing. ‒ i shared the ep resolution on arms exports: i am therefore very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to implement common position 2008/944/cfsp, because i believe that their uncontrolled distribution poses a risk to the security of citizens and a serious threat to international peace and stability. given that every minute a person dies worldwide from causes related to armed violence, it is not difficult to understand the need for better regulation of the international arms trade and for greater responsibility on the part of states at the global level, especially those that make this sector one of the main economic activities. the recent terrorist attacks in paris, the ongoing wars in syria, iraq, yemen and libya and all the other conflicts in the world have shown that weapons very often end up in the hands of terrorists, used against the civilian population and to train child soldiers. i believe that the common position on the arms trade is the right legal approach to bind the member states to closer coordination of national policies on the subject. finally, i welcome the creation of an independent arms control authority under the aegis of the eu high representative for foreign affairs and security policy.
in writing. ‒ the terrorist threat in europe and the recent attacks in paris have prompted the european commission to strengthen controls on firearms and to revise common position 2008/944/cfsp laying down common rules for the control of exports of military technology and equipment. in 2013, eu member states alone, among the world's largest arms exporters, exported the equivalent of eur 26 billion worth of arms to countries outside the eu. the overall security landscape around the eu has changed dramatically in recent years. we must be very careful about this, but at the same time we must avoid confusing security and foreign policy with the production and trade of small arms. the latter are also used for activities such as shooting or hunting. i therefore hope that the union will give due consideration to the issues of arms exports but will not unjustifiably damage the firearms industry, which plays an important role in italy's and europe's economy. that's why i decided to abstain.
in writing. - this is an important vote. the report is a valuable support for a report which has the noble objective of regulating and making the arms market more transparent. weapons which, unfortunately, have recently been falling too often into the hands of terrorists and violent people and which therefore need clear traceability and, above all, transparency in the context of exports. we need to know with certainty and clarity who owns a weapon and what they intend to use it for.
in writing. ‒ the report under voting is acceptable and free of criticism, and i therefore intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. ‒ researchers must have unlimited access to plant biological material. closing the sector as in the recent decision (g2/12 and g2/13) of the enlarged board of appeal of the european patent office (epo) which allows plant characteristics to be patented even when they are developed, or could be obtained, by essentially biological plant breeding techniques is wrong and dangerous. without unlimited access to plant biological material, it is impossible to innovate and develop the plant breeding sector: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's food supply is not affected by the crisis. the impact on european competitiveness will be negative, with risks of downstream effects in terms of the plurality of food supply, the quality of the production available to consumers and a reduction in internal market competitiveness.
in writing. - i vote for it. the international system of plant variety rights based on the upov convention, as well as community legislation, establishes as a fundamental principle that the owner of a plant variety may not prevent others from using the protected plant in order to promote the use of protected varieties in other production activities. in that resolution, the ep noted that granting too broad protection through patents could stifle innovation and progress and harm small and medium-sized producers by blocking access to plant and animal genetic resources, especially in the breeding sector. the selection of plants is an essential prerequisite for the security of food supply and, to some extent, energy supply. the text under vote today reiterates this concept, while also acknowledging that this objective has not been fully achieved and stressing that products obtained by conventional reproduction techniques (some of which, nevertheless, have been the subject of numerous applications for registration with the european patent office in recent years) should not be patentable.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on "patents and patent protection for plant discoveries". in this resolution, parliament stressed that the prohibition of the patentability of products obtained by conventional breeding techniques is essential to stimulate innovation, particularly for small enterprises. plant breeding is an innovative process that has been practised by farmers and farming communities for a long time and access to biological material is essential to stimulate innovation and the development of new varieties, in order to ensure global food security, address climate change and prevent essentially biological, such as plants, seeds, indigenous traits and genes, from being excluded from patentability. the commission will then clarify existing eu rules, in particular the directive on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions, and forward these clarifications to the european patent office (epo), in order to ensure that products obtained by conventional breeding techniques cannot be patentable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on patents and patent protection for plant products. continued research on plant products and access to plant biological material is important to stimulate innovation and the development of new varieties in order to: ensure global food security, address climate change and prevent plant breeding monopolies, while providing greater opportunities for smes. on these points, from food safety to standards to meet the needs of small and mediumsized enterprises, i believe that europe must do a lot. it is right to point out that essentially biological processes should be excluded from patentability and i agree with the proposal to call on the commission to clarify urgently the scope and interpretation of directive 98/44/ec in order to ensure legal certainty as regards the prohibition of patentability of products obtained by essentially biological processes. i therefore agree with the proposal in general and i intend to support it for that reason.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that products obtained by essentially biological processes should be excluded from patentability and used to stimulate innovation and the development of new varieties.
in writing. ‒ patents on products derived from conventional breeding methods or on genetic material necessary for conventional breeding undermine the exclusion laid down in article 53 (b) of the european patent convention and article 4 of directive 98/44/ec which states that 'plant varieties and animal breeds and essentially organic processes for the production of plants or animals shall not be patentable'. this is a principle of the utmost importance! allowing such patents threatens the industry's innovative capacity to develop new varieties and poses a threat to global food production and food security. it will have a negative impact on european competitiveness and may result in monopolies on the food market, reducing the variety of products offered to consumers. the recent decision of the enlarged board of appeal of the european patent office (epo) to grant patents on plant characteristics even when they are developed, or could be obtained, by essentially biological plant breeding techniques should therefore be condemned. for this reason, we are voting in favour of the joint resolution on the request from the agri and juri committees for an oral question on the subject of 'patents for plant discoveries', even though it could have been structured better and provided for greater protection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which states that products obtained from organic processes, such as plants, seeds, indigenous traits and genes, should be excluded from patentability. plant breeding is an innovative process practised by farmers and farming communities since the birth of agriculture, access to organic material is essential to stimulate innovation, food security and small businesses. for these reasons, the european commission urgently needs to clarify the existing european rules on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions so that it can forward these clarifications to the european patent office (epo) and thus ensure that products obtained by conventional breeding techniques cannot be patentable.
in writing. ‒ the prohibition on patenting plant varieties and essentially organic plant production processes is of great importance, not only from a legal point of view but also from an ethical point of view. for this reason, the recent decision of the enlarged board of appeal of the european patent office to grant patents on plant characteristics even when they are developed, or could be obtained, by essentially biological plant breeding techniques is of considerable concern to us as it poses a threat to world food production and food security itself. the decision will have a negative impact on european competitiveness and may result in monopolies on the food market, reducing the variety of products offered to consumers. the threat to farmers, on the other hand, is even more serious. for these reasons, this resolution seems to us weak and unacceptable, first of all because it does not adequately address the need for the eu to ensure that there is a general derogation for farmers in its legislation on patents relating to plant and animal breeding.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the resolution calling for greater transparency and the use of rules that bring eu citizens closer together rather than stand in the way.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution. the subject in question is important from an ethical and scientific point of view and deserves our attention to ensure that the rules in force are strictly observed. this measure calls on the commission to clarify as a matter of urgency the scope and interpretation of directive 98/44/ec, in particular articles 4 and 12, in order to ensure legal certainty as regards the prohibition of patentability of products obtained by essentially biological processes and to clarify that selection with patented biological material is allowed.
in writing. ‒ article 29 of regulation (ec) no 2100/94 on the community plant variety right is incompatible with article 12 of directive 98/44/ec on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions. a plant variety may be protected by a plant patent, but may also contain one or more biotechnological inventions protected by a patent, for example patented genetic components. the danger is that patentability of naturally obtained plant parts could create a monopoly in the food market, thus having a negative impact on competition. to resolve this contradiction, parliament considered it necessary to amend regulation (ec) no 2100/94 by aligning the rules laid down in regulation (ec) no 2100/94 with those laid down in directive 98/44/ec. i voted in favour of this amendment, which i considered necessary, and i hope that the commission will soon clarify the objectives of the existing eu rules on this matter.
in writing. the 'patentable biotechnologies' directive provides that plant varieties, animal breeds and essentially biological processes for the production of plants or animals are excluded from patentability. the european patent office (epo) has recently decided to overturn the directive by allowing patenting of plant products developed using organic selection techniques. as a result, the availability of biological material from many plant varieties will become the prerogative of the biotechnology industries, reinforcing the ongoing trend of the seed market being concentrated in the hands of a few industries. this resolution is intended to combat these abuses, but it is weak because it does not fully defend the rights of farmers. if a crop is contaminated by patented plants, the farmer who owns that field could be sued by the patent holder. we must have the courage to defend the peasants in a strong way. against the overpowering power of agrochemical companies we cannot accept half-measures, and that is why i voted against this resolution. access to plant genetic heritage must be safeguarded in a decisive way.
in writing. ‒ while i share the concern about the serious political and security situation in the state of burundi and the condemnation of the human rights violations, i do not fully agree with the solutions proposed in this text, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ burundi is one of the least developed countries in the world. almost half of its 10.6 million inhabitants are aged 15 or younger (children under 5 years old make up 19.9% of the population) and it is ranked first in the global hunger index, with three out of five children suffering from stunting. the political impasse in burundi, characterised by a lack of dialogue between the country's stakeholders and the consequent deterioration of the economic and security situation, has therefore had a serious impact on the population and represents a serious risk to the stability of the region, where difficult electoral consultations will be held in the next two years (uganda, democratic republic of congo, rwanda). the continuation of mediation efforts supported by the african union, the eu and the un to promote dialogue within the country to reach a peaceful solution to the crisis is undoubtedly positive. the eu's targeted sanctions, in line with the african union decision, including travel bans and asset freezes for burundians whose actions and statements contribute to the perpetuation of violence and obstruct efforts to achieve a political solution to the crisis, should also be supported.
in writing. - i abstained. the resolution expressed concern at the serious political and security situation in burundi, as well as at the deterioration of the humanitarian situation and the consequences this could have for the security and stability of the entire subregion.
in writing. ‒ the situation in burundi has worsened worryingly in recent months. the chronicles speak of a country where blood has returned to flow. if the fighting in burundi does not stop, the conflict could spread to the congo, then to rwanda. the situation needs to be monitored closely and the international community must intervene before it is too late. more than 240 people have been killed so far and another 280,000 have been displaced, making the country face the worst crisis in its history since the end of the civil war fought between 1993 and 2006. in recent weeks, however, it seems that the passivity of the international community has come to an end. the un security council has condemned the spiral of violence and there is a clear statement by the african union which has the full support and approval of the european union. it is now necessary to urge the government of the country to stop the spiral of repression and to agree to participate in peace talks mediated by the international community, the african union and the european union.
in writing. - i've decided to support the measure. parliament expressed its deep concern at the serious political and security situation in burundi, as well as at the rapid deterioration of the humanitarian situation and the consequences this could have for the security and stability of the whole region. strongly condemns the recent violent attacks and the increase in the number of cases of human rights violations and abuses, including killings, extrajudicial executions, violations of the physical integrity of persons, acts of torture and other cruel, inhuman and/or degrading treatment, arbitrary arrests and unlawful detentions, including the detention of children and the occupation of schools by the military and police, as well as violations of freedom of the press and of expression and the prevalent impunity. it called for an end to the violence and for a thorough and independent investigation into the killings and abuses and for those responsible to be brought to justice. it called for an immediate end to the violence, human rights violations and political intimidation of the opposition and urged the immediate disarmament of all armed groups allied to political parties, in strict accordance with international law and human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution analysing the crisis in burundi and the union's concerns and commitments in relation to that country. burundi is going through a situation of profound social crisis, it is one of the least developed countries in the world and, in my view, there must be greater awareness in europe of the serious political and security situation that is being created. i hope that the violence, the violations of human rights and the political intimidation of the opposition will end. i would like to see the european union take concrete action to ensure that fundamental human rights are respected in burundi. europe must be at the forefront of this, and i therefore support the proposal and vote in favour.
in writing. i have decided to give a favourable opinion on this motion for a resolution on the serious situation in burundi. the eu has been violating human rights in this country for too long, and given that relations between the eu and the country are governed by the cotonou agreement, which provides for strict respect for the former, we cannot wait to act. the united nations secretary-general, ban ki-moon, has submitted three proposals to the security council in which he recommends a review of the mandate of the un presence in burundi, in the light of developments in the situation. we are therefore anxious to urge the high representative to coordinate the foreign policy of the member states in order to restore respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ the un special rapporteurs stated on 13 november 2015 that the situation in burundi continues to deteriorate. there are increasing daily complaints of serious human rights violations by the security forces, internal divisions, lack of dialogue between the various warring parties in the country and the risk of a regional crisis. it is important to find a consensual and national solution to the current crisis. the burundian government must cooperate fully in mediation efforts in order to find a lasting and credible political solution based on the principles of the arusha peace agreement and to restore a climate of peace and security to encourage the return of refugees. i voted in favour of this proposal, which also includes the need to speed up the disbursement of aid funds to burundian refugees who have fled to neighbouring countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in burundi because i support the european parliament's desire to promote and protect human rights by preventing all forms of political violence and intimidation. the european union urges the government of burundi to respect the obligation to guarantee the fundamental rights of its citizens. the importance of dialogue and consensus building at regional level is also emphasised in order to achieve these important objectives.
in writing. ‒ virunga mountains national park has been a unesco world heritage site since 1994 and is home to a number of endangered species. a wwf report showed that the park's biodiversity is at risk because of illegal activities by poachers and foreign multinational corporations interested in the vast mineral resources. the protection of the oldest and richest park in the republic of congo is a key tool not only for the conservation of an invaluable environmental heritage, but also for the protection of a substantial source of livelihood for the local and indigenous population. i voted in favour of the report on the protection of the virunga national park because i believe that it is both necessary and proper to take action to protect such an environmental heritage from reckless human action.
in writing. ‒ the report is largely agreeable, but some aspects are developed in an ambiguous way and could open up to criticism, so i expressed an abstention.
in writing. ‒ virunga national park in the democratic republic of congo is the oldest in africa and has been recognised as a unesco world heritage site for its habitats and rich biodiversity. its 790,000 hectares of land produce an economic value of about $48.9 million a year, thus representing a huge development opportunity for the local community, mainly linked to tourism. although state laws prohibit harmful activities in protected areas, the park's sustainable conservation is jeopardized by a special exemption in the legislation that leaves room for the possibility of downgrading the area, in whole or in part, for oil drilling. in addition, the territory is subject to ongoing illegal exploitation of natural resources by armed groups, poaching and deforestation, with heavy repression against human rights activists and journalists. the european union must, through its diplomatic action, help the republic of congo to abandon the redefinition of the park's boundaries and purpose by supporting the state in developing sustainable energy and economic solutions to preserve its integrity. for these reasons i wholeheartedly support the european parliament's resolution.
in writing. ‒ virunga national park, located in north kivu and eastern province of the democratic republic of congo, bordering rwanda and uganda, is africa's oldest national park, a unesco world heritage site and known worldwide for its extraordinary habitats and rich biodiversity, the highest of any african park. the park is also famous for its mountain gorillas, a critically endangered species listed in appendix i of the 1973 convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites). according to the convention on biological diversity, signed and ratified by the democratic republic of congo, the conservation of biological diversity is a common concern of all humanity and an integral part of the development process: the convention is legally binding and the signatories are bound to implement its provisions. nevertheless, the territory has been threatened for years by armed groups engaged in poaching, deforestation and other unsustainable and illegal forms of resource exploitation that endanger it. the eu must work with partners to pacify the area and preserve this unique, precious and highly degraded environmental resource.
in writing. - abstention from the vote. the resolution condemns the fact that the drc has granted eu oil companies a licence to explore and extract oil within the borders of the famous virunga national park, a unesco world heritage site, and calls on the eeas to take action to prevent the destruction of the park. while we agree with the denunciation of the fact itself, we do not see what title and what reason the eu has to interfere in the internal affairs of a sovereign state.
in writing. ‒ virunga national park, established in 1925 and recognised as a unesco world heritage site, is the oldest and most biodiverse park in africa. there are no congolese ethnic representatives among the shareholders of virunga sarl (neither governmental, civil society or ngos), although the importance of the park is also known for the livelihood of the local population. the report calls, among other things, on the eeas to do everything possible to prevent the exploitation of the natural resources of the park. the maintenance of the system could also create more than 45,000 jobs. i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the protection of virunga national park in the democratic republic of congo. the park in question is africa's oldest national park, a unesco world heritage site and known worldwide for its extraordinary habitats and rich biodiversity. for over 20 years, the park and its surroundings have been the scene of violent clashes, and illegal mining, illegal exploitation of its natural resources, and poaching of endangered animals, as well as other forms of illegal trade in natural resources, in particular, have funded both the rebels and the official army, thus also affecting the harmony of the park itself. i think that in this context the european union must strive to emphasize the absolute need to prevent irreversible damage to the park, and also to ensure the conservation of biodiversity, which is a common problem for all mankind and is an integral part of the development process. that is why i am in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ virunga national park is a unesco world heritage site and is known worldwide for its extraordinary habitats and rich biodiversity. in addition to being a true natural heritage, virunga national park today produces an annual economic value of $48.9 million: in a stable situation, it could contribute to growth in both the economic and tourist sectors and produce a value of one billion dollars a year and create 45 000 jobs. whereas, despite its protected natural area status, the park has been threatened for years by armed groups engaged in poaching, deforestation and other unsustainable and illegal forms of resource exploitation to the extent that it has been inscribed on the list of world heritage sites in danger i agree with the implementation of actions to protect and safeguard it.
in writing. what is happening in virunga national park is of absolute gravity. oil exploitation is causing irreparable damage to the park, which has become one of the most dangerous places in the world for wildlife conservation. we recall that this is the park with the greatest biodiversity in africa and is a unesco world heritage site, its value is inestimable and could create over 45,000 jobs. the current situation, however, is characterized by perpetual armed conflict and corruption, which do not allow for sustainable environmental and economic development. the resolution aims to highlight the importance of the park for the livelihoods of local people and indigenous peoples living in the surrounding areas, calling for an end to the exploitation of natural resources. in view of the condition which is destroying the enormous wealth of virunga national park, i can only express my support for the resolution presented.
in writing. ‒ nearly one third of natural heritage sites are threatened by mining operations or drilling by energy companies. these areas are the only reserve where endangered species can survive among the most endangered places, according to the wwf, is virunga national park in the democratic republic of congo. this is the park with one of the richest and most fragile ecosystems on the planet, home to some of the last remaining mountain gorillas (gorilla beringei beringei), a species that is highly threatened by poaching, civil war and now oil extraction. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that it is of fundamental importance for all mankind to protect these unique ecosystems.
in writing. ‒ for the protection of the park, which is an ecosystem to be protected with all our strength.
in writing. virunga national park, located in the north kivu and eastern provinces of the democratic republic of congo, is on the list of world heritage sites in danger. this is due to the actions of armed groups that engage in poaching and deforestation. i have decided to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution because a commitment is needed from the eu and the member states to preserve the integrity of the park by strengthening the commitment to finance sustainable conservation and economic development and diversification of the surrounding region.
in writing. ‒ virunga national park in congo is africa's oldest national park, a unesco world heritage site known worldwide for its extraordinary habitats and rich biodiversity, the highest of all african parks, and famous for its mountain gorillas, a critically endangered species. in addition, the park now generates an annual economic value of usd 48.9 million, contributing to both economic and tourist growth and creating 45,000 jobs. but despite its protected status, the park has been threatened for years by armed groups engaged in poaching, deforestation and other illegal forms of resource exploitation, such as oil concessions, putting virunga national park in danger. i therefore vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, hoping that the commission, the member states, the democratic republic of the congo and the oil companies involved in the extraction will do their utmost to safeguard the virunga national park.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the protection of the virunga national park (vnp) in the democratic republic of congo. the resolution stresses the absolute need to avoid irreversible damage to the park, which was designated by unesco as a world heritage site and was subsequently recognised as being in danger; regrets that the vnp has become one of the most dangerous places in the world when it comes to wildlife conservation; stresses that irreversible damage to gnp could occur as a result of oil exploitation or other illegal activities.
in writing. ‒ virunga national park, a unesco world heritage site, is a park with a high level of biodiversity that needs to be safeguarded and protected. unfortunately, the exploitation of oil fields is seriously endangering the many animal species found there. furthermore, the presence of continuous armed conflict and corruption make the economic, environmental and social situation unstable, preventing the development of this area despite its enormous potential (it could create over 45,000 jobs and its economic value could be over $1.1 billion dollars a year). that is why we voted in favour of the resolution, which was inspired by the wwf report, because it highlights the importance of the park for the livelihoods of local people and indigenous peoples. the report also calls for an end to the exploitation of natural resources and encourages the congolese government to take greater action to safeguard the environment and prevent the illegal exploitation of resources, both natural and animal (poaching).
