in writing. today, italian prime minister matteo renzi presented the results of his country's presidency of the council of the european union and handed over the reins of the presidency to our neighbour latvia. i agree with the prime minister that the economic crisis has left a deep scar, but europe has another great challenge to overcome: to rediscover trust in its citizens and in europe. i think we need to fight the recession even harder and abandon austerity. europe must respect the principles of the social dimension, invest in people, in their minds and in the future of our children. italy has failed to achieve satisfactory results in areas that directly affect the lives of our people. i hope that latvia, having taken over the presidency, will be able to find common agreement among the member states on the maternity leave directive and that we will not lose it. i very much hope that the anti-discrimination directive, which many europeans are waiting for, will be unblocked. the fate of the directive in the boards of wives' companies is also to be decided, since the member states have not yet reached agreement on it. i would urge latvia to take account of current events, because without freedom there is no security and no rights for citizens. it is essential to continue the work already undertaken, i.e. to ensure the implementation of the stability and growth pact, to carry out the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy, to implement the european semester in the member states, in order to accelerate economic recovery and growth.
the agreement reached, ladies and gentlemen, is an optimal compromise and gives the member states the right to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms on their territory. gmos must not be authorised against the will of elected governments or their citizens. this directive, although not the best, does ensure that, and i think it should be approved. i believe that gmos should only be authorised if there is strong evidence that they are not harmful and cannot harm us or our children. we cannot allow the lobbyists to leave legal loopholes to legalise gmo cultivation in the european union and impose it on the people of not just lithuania but all your countries against their will. each party has to decide for itself, taking into account the precautionary principle. we must not give in to domestic pressure and allow the gmo empire to take hold in the european union. this principle needs to be incorporated in eu documents, including the free trade agreement with the united states. sooner or later, interfering with mother nature's affairs will backfire on us. so, colleagues, let us be vigilant, let us love nature and let us support this document.
in writing. statistics show that as many as 58% of eu citizens are against the cultivation of genetically modified crops in the european union. however, this issue has not yet been adequately addressed at eu level, particularly with regard to the decision-making process itself for the cultivation of gmos. it is not justified that 19 out of 28 governments oppose the legalization of a new gmo crop, but that the commission takes the final decision without taking into account the positions of democratically elected governments. as regards today's document, i can only welcome the fact that member states are being given more powers to decide on the cultivation of gmos on their territory. although these new rules do not address the labelling of gm products, this issue remains relevant. gm products must be properly labelled and the public must have the choice of whether or not to consume products containing gm crops.
in writing. mr president, the debate on the parliament and council directive touches on a very important question for the european union to answer, one that is of importance to all europeans. this is about allowing member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms. not much is known about the dangers of gmos, but there are a few things to keep in mind. there's no way to stop the spread of the modified genes. there will always be irreversible contamination from gmos. this will affect small and medium-sized family farms, such as those in lithuania, which are engaged in organic farming. the cultivation of transgenic plants creates monoculture areas where many traditional varieties are killed. the farmer is virtually dependent on chemical corporations (the seeds are patented and have to be bought annually). in addition, gmo cultivation contributes to the decline in production and alters the natural balance of existing ecosystems. then comes the worst of all: barren soil, poor harvests, and the constant threat of disease. pesticides and herbicides also lose their effectiveness, forcing farmers to use mixtures that are several times more toxic. the result is an increase in the incidence of allergies and respiratory diseases in the general population. the vote must take account of the growing discontent of the european public with gmos. the vast majority of citizens are against gmo farms in europe and we should allow member states to ban gmo farms on their territory, increasing their competence in this area.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for the renewal of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe. the agreement allows eu vessels to fish in its waters. under the previous protocol, 40 eu tuna vessels were authorised to fish. the financial contribution amounted to eur 682 500 per year, of which more than 35% was earmarked for the support of the fisheries sector in the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe. i support the new protocol, which is for the next four years and which gives 34 eu vessels the right to fish. the annual financial compensation will be eur 710 000 for the first three years and eur 675 000 for the fourth year, a large part of which will be allocated to support the fisheries policy of são tomé and príncipe. i agree that the agreement should be renewed and that the recommendations set out therein could increase support for the fisheries sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation on the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe. the agreement is part of a network of tuna fisheries agreements in west africa and gives eu vessels the right to fish in its waters. the first fisheries agreement with the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe was signed in 1984. since then, eight protocols have been implemented, two of them under the fisheries partnership agreement. however, the results of sectoral cooperation so far have been very limited. this situation should be changed urgently. this protocol, together with other development support instruments such as the european development fund, should promote the genuine and sustainable development of the fisheries sector and other related industries and activities in the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe, enhancing the added value that the country derives from its natural resources. the european parliament's rapporteur believes that the commission must take the necessary steps, including a possible revision of the part of the agreement relating to sectoral support and an increase in funding, to effectively change the direction taken over the last 20 years.
in writing. — i voted in favour on the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and são tomé and príncipe: fishing opportunities and financial contribution, because this agreement will foster the genuinely sustainable development of the fisheries sector.
in writing. i give my consent to the conclusion of this agreement. the new four-year agreement will be mutually beneficial, taking into account the interests of both parties. in particular, european union fishing vessels will be granted fishing opportunities in são toméan waters. it will also strengthen cooperation between countries and promote the same principles of good fisheries regulation and sound maritime management worldwide. stronger cooperation between the two countries will allow for the implementation of a sound fisheries policy and contribute to the responsible use of fisheries resources. it is important to note that the eu has a major responsibility in ensuring the conservation and sustainable management of international fisheries resources. in this context, the commission should pay greater attention to controls to ensure the effective use of aid. the control mechanisms applied shall be proportionate. they cannot violate the sovereignty and legitimate priorities of the country.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at approving the agreement between the european union and the republic of seychelles on the operating possibilities for fishing vessels in mayotte waters. the agreement covers the operational possibilities of vessels flying the flag of seychelles and the exploitation of marine biological resources in mayotte waters. this agreement is special in that it allows vessels flying the flag of a third country to fish in european waters. in order to obtain a fishing authorisation that they can keep on board, shipowners will pay the fees directly to the european union. these charges will be collected by france for the eu account and redistributed to mayotte in order to efficiently meet the sectoral needs of the island in relation to port infrastructure, unloading, control and marketing of products. i am in favour of the conclusion of this agreement as it will be beneficial for both parties and for the economic development of mayotte and the seychelles.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation to approve the agreement between the european union and the republic of seychelles on fishing opportunities for vessels operating in mayotte waters. this agreement covers the operational possibilities of vessels flying the flag of seychelles and the exploitation of marine biological resources in mayotte waters. this agreement between the republic of seychelles and the european union (on behalf of mayotte) has been negotiated in order to allow a certain number of vessels flying the flag of seychelles which have historically fished in mayotte waters to continue fishing activities in the exclusive economic zone of mayotte, in compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy. this is the first such agreement, and it is unique in that it allows vessels flying the flag of a third country to fish in european waters. in order to obtain a fishing authorisation which they can keep on board, shipowners pay fees directly to the european union. these charges are collected by france for the european union and redistributed to mayotte in order to meet the island's sectoral needs in relation to port infrastructure, unloading, control and marketing.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the eu-seychelles agreement on access for fishing vessels to the waters of mayotte because this agreement is important in relation to the migratory nature of the fish resource, and it will help to maintain the privileged relations between the european union and the republic of the seychelles.
in writing. i give my consent to the conclusion of this agreement. it should be noted that this is the first agreement of its kind. under the terms of this operational agreement, vessels flying the flag of a third country will be granted the right to fish in european waters. it is noted that the agreement will benefit both parties and the economic development of mayotte and the seychelles. it will encourage the development of sustainable and responsible fisheries, while increasing the value of fishery products. i think it is appropriate to provide in the agreement for the conditions for its suspension, in particular in cases where the principles of human rights, democracy, the rule of law and good governance are being violated. furthermore, the mid-term review provided for in the agreement will allow the usefulness and effectiveness of the agreement to be assessed.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european communities and the republic of tunisia to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the eu. the main aspects of the protocol are the accession of new member states to the eu-tunisia association agreement and the inclusion of new official eu languages to take account of eu enlargement.
in writing. i agree with this request to consult the european economic and social committee on the 2011 white paper on transport: a review of sustainable mobility and progress in implementation.
in writing. — i voted in favour on the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on ‘implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport: taking stock and way forward towards sustainable mobility’ because i think that consultation with the economic and social committee with be useful for parliament’s work on this issue.
in writing. — in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, we must note that gmo cultivation is an issue to be dealt with in greater depth at member state, rather than eu institutional, level. thus, the member states should be able to decide whether they prefer to restrict or ban the cultivation of certain gmos on their territory. in addition, we should take into account the problem of crop contamination deriving from gmo cultivation which, according to the reported evidence, has resulted in increased costs for farmers trying to safeguard their crops from contact with gmos. the motion for a resolution should also make for better consumer protection, which is one of parliament’s priorities. improving the authorisation of gmos, including through uniform risk-assessment procedures and a gmo labelling system in the eu, would give consumers more access to information. lastly, since the measures taken by member status in application of this directive will have to be made public, this will allow for better scrutiny and more transparency in relation to gmos. overall, creating more room for manoeuvre and greater legal certainty, with regard to both national and regional legislation, is a substantial step forward in terms of the quality of food security in the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to give member states the possibility of restricting or prohibiting the cultivation of gmos. statistics show that as many as 58% of eu citizens are against the cultivation of genetically modified crops in the european union. however, this issue has not yet been adequately addressed at eu level, particularly with regard to the decision-making process itself for the cultivation of gmos. it is not justified that 19 out of 28 governments oppose the legalization of a new gmo crop, but that the commission takes the final decision without taking into account the positions of democratically elected governments. as regards today's document, i can only welcome the fact that member states are being given more powers to decide on the cultivation of gmos on their territory. although these new rules do not address the labelling of gm products, this issue remains relevant. gm products must be properly labelled and the public must have the choice of whether or not to consume products containing gm crops.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation on the council position on the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms (gmos). it is very important to examine the position adopted by the council on the directive with great responsibility, as an increasing number of europeans are publicly opposed to genetically modified organisms and, in particular, to gmos in food. it is worth noting that according to a special eurobarometer report on food-related hazards in december 2010, only 21% of europeans agree (58% disagree) that food produced from gmos is safe for future generations. the european parliament considers that member states should be given more flexibility to prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory, including on grounds of environmental protection, jealousy, the protection of biodiversity or the conservation of habitats and ecosystems. in addition, the risk assessment approach needs to be strengthened, as the long-term effects of gmo cultivation have not been sufficiently taken into account until now.
in writing. i voted in favour of the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos because i believe that it is appropriate to follow the principle of subsidiarity by giving member states more flexibility to decide whether they want gmos to be grown on their territory, without prejudice to the environmental and human health risk assessment provided for in the eu gmo authorisation system. it also calls for measures to prevent the accidental introduction of gmos. it is essential to preserve freedom of choice and provide clarity for stakeholders on the cultivation of gmos in the eu.
in writing. the cultivation of genetically modified organisms has been a hot topic for many years. i therefore welcome the recent decision of the european parliament to give member states the right to decide whether to authorise or prohibit gmos. food safety and health issues are a member state prerogative and therefore highly debated, sometimes even conflicting, issues of various interests can best be addressed by taking account of member state interests.
in writing. i voted in favour of this directive. in particular, member states will be given more latitude and legal certainty. they will be able to decide whether to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms on their territory. this directive is a major step forward in protecting its citizens from potential adverse impacts. thus, in each case, the public interest and values will be taken into account when deciding on gmos. it should be noted that to date no comprehensive studies have been carried out on the effects of gmos on human health. moreover, allowing gmos to be grown, even with restrictions, would destroy organic or other farms sensitive to the impact of gmos. it is therefore essential that countries that grow gmos properly implement safeguards to prevent them from crossing borders and spreading to neighbouring countries. it is also essential that the eu institutions exercise strict controls and ensure a scientifically based risk assessment of gmo cultivation.
in writing. i voted against because the directive is harmful in principle: it will make it possible to grow gmos in europe. the debate in the ep and public opinion polls show opposition to gmos both among meps and the public. today the european parliament had a great opportunity to ban gmos in europe. instead, through the efforts of the big factions and the small right-wing factions, we have created a fuzzy, unclear, national licensing system that not only fails to ensure food safety, but also creates a huge opportunity for corruption, fueled by the lobbyists of the big agribusiness corporations. i am afraid i am right, but i do not want to give the impression that many members of the european parliament have today played the role of extras in a prearranged spectacle, which has been staged by the gmo lobby.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to transpose into european union law the recommendations of the common fisheries policy (cfp) for the mediterranean on the use of red coral, the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles and whale family animals and the conservation measures for monk seals, sharks and seals. the ices was established by international agreement in 1949 and its geographical area of competence comprises the mediterranean sea, the black sea and the surrounding waters. the main tasks of the commission are to promote the development, conservation and sound management of living marine resources and to draw up recommendations for conservation measures. i support the incorporation of the commission's recommendations into eu law.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which improves the commission's proposal for a common fisheries commission for the mediterranean (cfp). the mediterranean common fisheries commission was established by international agreement in 1949. its geographical area of competence comprises the mediterranean sea, the black sea and the surrounding waters. the main tasks of the jrc are to promote the development, conservation and sound management of living marine resources, to develop and make recommendations for conservation measures, and to promote joint training projects. the commission proposal aims to transpose the ohim recommendations into eu law. the european parliament welcomes this commission proposal but notes that it does not take into account the measures already adopted at national level in accordance with these recommendations. member states that have already transposed recommendations adopted in 2011-2013 should not be required to submit requests to the commission for derogations from the ohim recommendations, also taking into account the fact that the commission has not yet transposed them. the rapporteur of the european parliament proposes to take the view that the ohim recommendations establish an adequate level of regulated protection, which must be implemented by the contracting parties in particular before further measures can be adopted.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the provisions for fishing in the gfcm (general fisheries commission for the mediterranean) agreement area, because the eu, in its capacity as a contracting party to the gfcm, has made a series of commitments in recent years, on the sustainable management and exploitation of living marine resources, which need to be transposed into union law.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. it is essential that the ohim recommendations are applied uniformly and effectively throughout the eu. an effective multilateral cooperation system is needed to restore ecosystems and protect vulnerable species. the technical measures envisaged will promote the development, conservation and sound management of living marine resources. in addition, a uniform legal framework will ensure the application of uniform conservation measures recommendations and encourage the implementation of common training projects. i think it is appropriate to allow the use of remotely controlled underwater vehicles only until 2015 while the full research is being done. it is noted that the commission should take into account the national management measures and plans already implemented by the member states on the basis of the ohim recommendations when transposing the recommendations. it is essential to ensure that recommendations and national measures are compatible and complementary, rather than the other way around.
as regards the decisions taken by the european council before christmas and the way forward for their implementation, do you not see that we are facing new challenges - how to make new decisions work if the decisions taken earlier are still in place? the new financial period 2014-2020 was mentioned several times during the previous term. this monumental seven-year document was deliberated and put together. but today, in many countries, not a cent of that billions has been spent. i fear that the same could happen with the decision taken by the council last december to create a european fund for strategic investments, which could raise €300 billion over two years to be used to stimulate the economy and growth. our decisions often drown in a constant sea of proposals and deadlines for how to implement them and how to control their implementation. very fast decisions on jobs and growth, on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership, on the comprehensive energy union - that is what europe needs today. and the middle of this year and the end of this year are not the dates that we would expect.
an unstable and militarized libya is a major threat to regional and european security. the eu and the international community have been advocating a peaceful settlement of the conflict, but no tangible results have been achieved so far. it is a pity that the peace talks, which were to have taken place on 5 january this year and which were to have been mediated by the united nations, have failed. the situation in the country is deteriorating dramatically and this must be taken into account. four years of unrelenting violence is too much, and i join my colleagues in calling on the high representative to engage actively and seek ways with the international community to stabilise the situation in the country as soon as possible and protect the peaceful population.
we in the european parliament adopted our position on this directive back in 2013 and it could be a good example for gender equality in other areas as well. but why is it that we are still afraid to use educated women, capable women, to finally get the european union out of economic stagnation? because we really need to make decisions that allow women to be on corporate boards. yes, in some countries the situation is better: in france, italy or belgium, but still only 18% of women on company boards in the european union as a whole, because other member states do not have such legislation. so we need a common directive and we really need quotas to get to that 40%. yes, it will not be easy, but i look to my neighbour, the latvian presidency and the honourable minister. i really wish you all the best of luck in working hard, working responsibly and reaching an agreement and then it will definitely be a good result.
for the efdd group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president, my question is: is it not time today to review in depth the basic principles of the presidency? because the interests of the small presidency are often very different from those of the large countries of the union, and we pretend that they are not. because that small country is still a player in the zone of great interest, which formulates the agenda according to foreign fashions. and most importantly, all the agendas of the presidency of the european union have one thing in common: they are highly bureaucratic, they are highly formal, and their decisions are never implemented. we should recognize, ladies and gentlemen, that the european security strategy, based solely on stability along the european union's eastern borders, is outdated and that a new strategy for coexistence and survival in a world of acute conflicts is needed today. strategies that are much more effective, inclusive and reconciling. a strategy that promotes agreement, not conflict. a strategy of peace and trust. colleagues, we need to create jobs and stimulate economic growth. but first and foremost we should focus on the urgent establishment of a single energy market in the european union, because this is the guarantee not only in the event of natural or economic disasters but also in the event of military or terrorist disasters. i think that in the area of neighbourhood policy we should not focus on individual countries, but rather on neighbourhood relations. it is the agreement with the state, its policies, with each person, regardless of language, nationality or place of residence, colour or religion, that is the guarantee of our continued peaceful coexistence. these are the issues that the latvian presidency today should be focusing on and that all the countries of the community should be focusing on. and let us do that here today, all of us together, and then later, each of us in our own countries. and god helps us to make agreements and to reach agreements.
mr president, prime minister straujuma, i congratulate latvia on its first presidency, which is a serious test for a country which, by joining the euro area, is truly crowning the integration process. and i believe that in six months' time lithuania and latvia will be able to enjoy the joining of new members, both of whom have become experienced members of the european union. it is very important that latvia organises the eastern partnership summit. this will be a continuation of the vilnius summit, as the geopolitical situation remains very complex. it is therefore essential that we, the european union, ensure continued strategic support to the eastern partnership countries. i urge latvia to end the platform for combating illegal job creation. we must not only increase investment in europe, but also effectively combat illegal work, which not only takes away the income of states but also the social protection of workers. you have stressed the importance of social protection and social services in your presidency. this is really very important.
my dear colleague, commissioner mogherini, international security is indivisible and it is therefore necessary to ensure a common effort to preserve peace and security in the middle east and to address the challenges in neighbouring ukraine. we must use diplomatic, political and ultimately military means to combat international terrorism and radicalism and to prevent any illegal attempts to change the borders of sovereign states. russian military activity and power demonstrations are steadily increasing. this is a serious threat not only to lithuania but also to the security of the baltic sea region. but we cannot give in to any diplomatic or informational pressure or provocation. first, there is a need to review the european union's security strategy. the protection of the european union's borders must be strengthened and modernised, with consideration given to the possibilities of additional military deployments and closer cooperation between member states. close cooperation between the european union, nato and the united nations is essential. we need to work together effectively, but not duplicate each other. only by working together will we ensure the safety of our citizens.
for the efdd group i would not be a prophet if i said that the events in ukraine are taking a dangerous turn. what is needed is a swift, wise, just, diplomatic solution that all sides will firmly adhere to. further deterioration of the situation will cause major economic problems not only for russia and ukraine, but also for all other countries and regions. the european union and the international community must do their utmost to reach a peaceful solution based on the minsk protocol and the memorandum. we must defend ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty, never recognize the illegal annexation of crimea, but at the same time we must not promote a new cold war and we cannot give in to provocations. the european union's support for the newly formed ukrainian government and its reforms is of particular importance. a dedicated economic assistance plan for ukraine should be established and all financial, technical and military assistance and advice should be provided, as appropriate. only a common and firm position of all the member states of the european union and the international community, defending the principles and seeking wise diplomatic solutions, can bring about positive results. in defending ukraine, we are defending lithuania, latvia, estonia and all the other states of the european union. by defending ukraine, by defending its sovereignty, we are defending europe, we are defending our home. could there be anything more important? so let us be strong, wise and united.
madam president, a week ago the civilised world was deeply shocked by a deadly terrorist attack against journalists in paris. yesterday, 12 innocent civilians, including children, were killed because of a bus-shelling near volnovakha, donetsk oblast. terror attacks, from paris to volnovakha, are just another grim reminder of today’s reality. terrorists have many faces, from jihadists to talibanis, to islamists in northern nigeria, and the russian-backed and -funded bandits in eastern ukraine. but all of them have one thing in common: hatred of western liberties and democratic societies. we must give proper and evident recognition to an existing nest of modern terrorism in europe: the so-called donetsk and lugansk people’s republics. these are the places where terrorism and instability are breeding.
madam president, when a year ago on maidan square people gathered in a cold ukrainian winter and asked that ukraine stick to its path towards europe, nobody in kiev, in brussels, in washington or in any other european capital had any idea that a hundred people would perish in the following weeks. nor could anybody have guessed how the coming year would look: that the situation would be that part of ukraine is in effect occupied by russia, and another part of ukraine is under russia-backed terrorist control. we were taken by surprise – twice. all of us want peace, and as soon as possible, but core principles have to be maintained. when talking about the peace process in ukraine, europe has to keep stressing the importance of returning crimea to ukraine. europe has seen its share of frozen conflicts and difficult territorial disputes. forty years ago, the helsinki accords were signed by european countries for precisely that reason: to guarantee the inviolability of european borders. there can be no justification for the annexation of parts of ukrainian territory. europe has to be very careful about what we consider real progress in the peace process in ukraine. the minsk agreement was a good step in the right direction – too bad that it is not leading to russia withdrawing its troops. nor is russia ceasing its support of groups in donetsk and luhansk, which show every sign of being terrorist organisations. just a few days ago, a bus full of civilian passengers was blown to bits in the donetsk region. twelve people were killed, 16 injured. is there anyone who could call this progress?
i thank the rapporteur and also the ombudsman for the presentation of her first annual report and for the work she has done in helping to strengthen the structures and institutions for accountability and transparency at european level and in promoting good administration for the benefit of every citizen of the european union. i also appreciate that the traditional paper version of the communication is now available in an interactive form which can be transmitted. this is indeed what makes the european ombudsman more accessible, more attractive to consumers and this is something that should be pursued further and at the same time not leave behind those of our citizens who may not yet have access to the internet. i also appreciate the ombudsman's good cooperation with parliament, in particular with the committee on petitions. while it is positive that complaints about the european personnel selection office decreased in 2013, it is worrying that complaints about the commission and the european union agencies increased, and i would therefore ask the ombudsman to look into the reasons for this and what measures we should take together. indeed, transparency, openness and access to information for our citizens are very important.
madam president, today we are discussing one more disappointing case concerning russia’s policies. the kremlin’s patrons have created a system which enriches very few at the expense of the whole country. today’s russia in no way complies with democratic countries’ criteria, and this is of great concern for all of us. the european union has no right to neglect abuses of democratic values and human rights in the russian federation. support for the observance of human rights must become one of the cornerstones in building future relations with russia and a consistent and united strategy towards russia. with the alexei navalny case in mind, i call on the council of europe to keep the present policy of no voting rights for russia and, especially taking into account the european union member state representatives, to keep a united line in the 29 january vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it endorses the european ombudsman's activity report for 2013. the main task of the european ombudsman is to help strengthen structures and institutions for accountability and transparency at european level and to promote good administration for the benefit of every eu citizen and resident. in its communication, parliament welcomed the fact that complaints about the european personnel selection office (epso) had decreased by more than half in 2013, but expressed concern at the increase in complaints about the commission and the european union agencies operating in the member states. in this report, parliament therefore asked the ombudsman, ms e. o'reilly, to investigate the possible reasons for the increase in complaints, namely whether this increase was due to greater public awareness of complaint procedures or to other factors. transparency, openness, access to information, respect for citizens' rights and high ethical standards are of the utmost importance in order to build and maintain the trust of citizens and residents in the public service of the european union.
in writing. — i voted in favour on the ombudsman’s annual report 2013 because i welcome the ombudsman’s activity and efforts to raise public awareness of the office’s work and the efforts to decrease maladministration by eu institutions and bodies through inquiries and reports, with recommendations to the respective institutions and the european parliament.
in writing. i agree with the ombudsman's report. the european ombudsman plays a key role in addressing the concerns of citizens, helping to bridge the wide gaps between them and the eu institutions and preventing conflicts. the ombudsman shall act independently and impartially. it represents the common interests of the eu and its citizens. in view of this and the current situation in the eu, it is appropriate that the ombudsman initiate an inquiry into the compliance with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union as well as into the possible conflict of interest of the commission in relation to its role in the composition of the tripartite commission and the possible conflict of interest of the ecb in relation to its role as technical adviser to the tripartite commission. in view of the number of complaints received, i believe that the regional ombudsman posts should not be abolished, as this would limit the effective exercise of rights by european citizens. in order to make public administration more transparent, accountable and flexible, all union institutions and bodies need to cooperate more closely with the ombudsman and ensure that his recommendations are followed up and that critical comments are dealt with in an appropriate and timely manner. in view of the functions performed by the committee on petitions of the european parliament, i support the proposal that more resources should be allocated.
in writing. i voted for the annual activity report of the european ombudsman and i think the work of the current ombudsman is welcome it is not without reason that today the activity report was approved by such a large margin.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution in which parliament expresses its solidarity with the libyan people and strongly condemns the recent military actions and the violence and human rights violations and abuses resulting from the ongoing fighting and military operations. we express our deep concern at the suffering of the libyan civilian population and of all migrants and refugees in libya who are in a desperate situation. it is important to express concern about the impact of the general insecurity and the deterioration of governance in libya on regional and european security. the fighting has spread rapidly, causing chaos, loss of life and destruction of strategic infrastructure. the proliferation of weapons, ammunition and explosives and the trafficking of arms are also a matter of concern, posing a threat to the population, to the stability of libya and the region. parliament welcomed the fact that tunisia had taken in some 1.5 million libyan citizens fleeing the violence and called on the eu to provide the tunisian government with financial and logistical assistance to this end. we also call on the eu and the international community to provide additional humanitarian, financial and political assistance to address the humanitarian situation in libya, the situation of internally displaced persons and refugees and citizens deprived of basic services.
in writing. — i voted in favour because i believe that there is a need to ensure accountability for all violations of human rights and international humanitarian law.
in writing. although the fall of the gaddafi regime was supposed to bring about change in libya, political division and violence continue to plague the country. political infighting between groups inevitably leads to massive human rights violations, violent outbreaks leading to a humanitarian crisis. the tense situation in libya is a threat to the security of the countries in the region and to europe. the eu must do everything possible to stop the spread of terrorism in libya and to resolve the conflict at the peaceful negotiating table with the help of the international community, since this cannot be done by military confrontation. therefore, the coordinated action of the eu external action service and the united nations can contribute to stabilising the situation in libya. especially when our communities, the eu member state italy, are facing large flows of refugees and international terrorism knows no borders. i fully support the european parliament's solidarity with the libyan people and its desire to establish a state based on democratic values that would contribute to the stabilisation of the slowly developing situation in the region.
in writing. in my view, the attacks on civilians in libya are unjustified and are a serious response to the flows of illegal and dangerous immigration into the european union. in the light of the painful tragedies of the past, i welcome the position expressed by parliament today.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution as the humanitarian situation in some regions of ukraine continues to be a concern. unfortunately, however, humanitarian aid remains limited and internally displaced persons face great difficulties, with the civilian population suffering even more in winter. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external action is coordinated with the eu's external action. the resolution calls for the resumption of a national dialogue, which would also allow for the settlement of the issues of social benefits and pension payments and the provision of humanitarian aid by the ukrainian government to the population of the conflict zones. parliament deplored the continued violations of international human rights law and international humanitarian law in eastern ukraine and crimea and the sharp increase in the number of internally displaced persons since the ceasefire was declared on 5 september. it is necessary to condemn all cases of enforced disappearance, torture and ill-treatment and to urge a thorough investigation of information on the use of cluster bombs in both urban and rural areas. parliament called on the european union to provide more support to civil society and considered that civil society organisations could play an important role in facilitating people-to-people contacts and understanding in ukraine, promoting democratic change and respect for human rights.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the resolution on ukraine. the european union has to stand together with the people of ukraine, who chose a european future. i call for continued sanctions against this aggressive neighbour, russia.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution as the european parliament strongly condemns all acts of violence, incitement, hate speech, harassment, intimidation and censorship against political opposition, protesters, journalists, bloggers, trade unionists, women's rights defenders, civil society actors and minorities by state institutions, security forces and services and other groups in egypt. parliament called for an immediate end to these actions and reminded the egyptian government of its duty to ensure the protection and safety of all citizens, irrespective of their political views, membership of political organisations or religion, and to guarantee the exercise of freedoms of assembly, association, expression and the press in the country without any unlawful restrictions or censorship. it is also important that the egyptian authorities maintain dialogue, refrain from violence and guarantee the rights and freedoms of citizens. parliament is concerned about the loss of independence and impartiality of the egyptian criminal justice system, which has become a tool of government repression.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in egypt. i support closer eu cooperation with egypt by providing all the knowledge and experience we have to build democratic institutions, which would respect and defend human rights and promote social justice and security in this country.
in writing. just before the beginning of the year, on january 10, an egyptian court sentenced an egyptian student to three years in prison for a statement on facebook accusing him of atheism. the egyptian democracy, although enshrined in the 2014 constitution, is still facing major challenges in the areas of fundamental freedoms, human rights, freedom of the media. freedom house's ranking says that freedom is not guaranteed in egypt, but seeing that egypt is one of the leaders in the region, we must constantly look for ways to influence change in the region and in egypt with the help of the international community. egypt is facing major institutional challenges in developing its political, legal and economic system. the strengthening of civil society is therefore one of the opportunities and starting points for change in the country. these changes are inevitable without respect for international commitments and agreements, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly, respect for the principle of non-discrimination, prevention of terrorism, corruption. egypt, which was the flag-bearer during the arab revolution, must stabilise the situation and, together with us, the european union, it is responsible for the financial assistance needed to build a state based on democratic values.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on the two arrested marines who were found to be responsible for firing on a fishing vessel. the situation is such that these events have created diplomatic tension, as the legal uncertainty surrounding the case of the two italian marines and the fact that even after three years, the indian authorities have still not filed charges. parliament expressed its deepest sorrow at the tragic death of two indian fishermen and expressed its condolences. stresses, however, that despite the consequences of the incident three years ago, india should strictly respect the rule of law, with full respect for human rights and the legitimate rights of the persons alleged to have been involved in this incident; parliament expressed its deep concern at the detention of italian marines without charge. the long delay and the restriction of the freedom of movement of the marines is unacceptable and constitutes a serious violation of their human rights. the european parliament therefore calls on the eu high representative for foreign affairs and security policy to take all necessary steps to protect the two italian marines in order to find a speedy and satisfactory solution to this case.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the case of the two italian ‘marò’. these two ‘marò’ have been waiting for three years to know their fate, and i therefore think that the european union has to step in and help italy protect the rights of its citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. diplomatic tensions and legal uncertainty must be resolved as quickly as possible and a mutually acceptable solution reached. the case of these two italian marines is of great concern not only to the states of india and italy but also to the eu as a whole. this further demonstrates that eu diplomatic missions should be more active in defending the fundamental human rights of eu citizens detained in third countries. these institutions must ensure the rights and safety of eu citizens. i agree that events related to this incident should be subject to the jurisdiction of an italian or international court. any problem must be solved peacefully, legally, in accordance with international law and without violating human rights. it should be noted that the resolution of the conflict may have implications for the development of eu relations with india, in particular in the negotiation of a free trade agreement.
in writing. i support the resolution of the socialist group calling for the fact to be remembered that poverty and social exclusion have reached unprecedented levels and that the most vulnerable groups in society are suffering the most: women, young people, children, the elderly and the disabled. we call on the commission to take urgent action to reduce social disparities, discrimination in the labour market and poverty in member states or regions, which are incompatible with european values and harm the potential for growth and competitiveness. we call on the commission to present, alongside all draft legislation, an assessment of the impact of the legislation on the social aspects of european life, if adopted. we support the very ambitious investment programme proposed by the new commission. however, we insist that these investments be directed first and foremost towards the creation of quality and secure jobs, with priority for young people, and also towards regions with the highest unemployment. while presenting the commission's future work, mr juncker stressed that the programme was a people-centred one, with the aim of restoring europeans' trust in europe. however, a closer look at the programme presented shows that social policy appears to be only an appendage among all the other priorities. worse still, social policy is presented as the administrative burden of implementing the economic objectives of the single market. this should not be the case in europe today, where 126 million people are living in poverty and 25 million are unemployed, 5 million of them young people.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the resolution on the commission work programme 2015. i support commission’s focus on priorities, especially on the single digital market, which is of utmost importance for me and my country.
in writing. the epp group, in its resolution on the commission's 2015 work programme, emphasised the reduction of administrative burdens for small and medium-sized enterprises, support for job creation, and the development of innovation. i strongly support all measures to combat tax fraud and tax evasion and agree that there is a need to use taxpayers' money more efficiently and to take further action to protect the financial interests of the european union. transparent, rational and sound financial management is a priority for eu and national financial planning.
in writing. i think the commission's work programme should focus on three things: reducing red tape, promoting subsidiarity and, of course, the investment plan. i also think it is important that commissioners are judged on the basis of their achievements rather than their declared objectives.
in writing. respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights, including freedom of expression, are core eu values to which turkey formally committed itself when it applied for eu membership and during the negotiations. i support the call for the use of the pre-accession facility to give greater attention to independent media and to curb any interference and pressure from the authorities, and the arrest, intimidation or any censorship of journalists cannot be tolerated or justified in any way in 21st century democratic societies, especially in view of the eu enlargement and the prospect of turkish membership.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. freedom of the media is a fundamental principle of human rights. this is a very important principle of eu foreign policy. it is therefore essential to ensure full respect for fundamental rights and freedoms at all times and to stress the importance of freedom of the press and respect for democratic values. it should be noted that turkey's actions - the recent arrests of journalists and media executives and the systematic suppression of the media - are incompatible with european values and media freedom. without freedom of speech and the press, there can be no democratic and open society. it is therefore essential that the turkish authorities take immediate action to change the current legal and political environment in the country in order to ensure full respect for fundamental rights and freedoms. in order to achieve a more harmonious relationship between the two countries, turkey must respond to the concerns expressed by the eu, implement its international commitments and give priority to addressing the issue of media freedom.
in writing. i voted in favour because i believe that the heavy sentences and frequent arrests of journalists are seriously damaging to turkey's status as a partner of the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because the issue of media freedom in turkey should be given priority and an appropriate legal framework ensuring pluralism in line with international standards should be established. efforts to ban the use of social media, its restrictive approach to freedom of expression and the pressure on media and journalists cannot be supported. parliament condemned the recent police raids and the detention of many journalists and media representatives in turkey, as a free and pluralistic press, due process and the independence of the judiciary are essential elements of any democracy. parliament also stressed that the judicial proceedings against journalists and writers and the many forms of dismissal, intimidation, harassment and other forms of pressure against critical media and journalists must be abolished. such actions restrict the ability of journalists to perform their professional duties, to inform the public about important issues and topical issues, and to exercise their freedom of expression.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the resolution on freedom of expression in turkey. freedom of speech is a supreme value of the european union and it is our duty to protect and spread it all over the world.
in writing. the terrorist attacks in paris are a painful reminder to europe that we have lived too long in a false sense of security and too long ignored the signs that are now manifesting themselves in the form of extreme violence and destruction. the european security strategy of 2003 identified key security challenges such as terrorism, regional conflicts and organised crime, but today's terrorism has its roots in decades of social change both in our society and in the inability to find long-term solutions for peace and stability, particularly in the arab countries in conflict. if we were talking about the threat of terrorism from third countries more than a decade ago, today we face an even more complex problem, where terrorist attacks are carried out by our own citizens born and raised in the eu. i believe that security needs to be seen in a complex way and that action in the areas of migration policy, external border protection and organised crime needs to be reviewed. i hope that the member states and europe as a whole take the security threats seriously and that the political will is found to take the difficult but necessary security decisions.
in writing. the year began with major shocks to the international community: the terrorist attacks in paris, the ongoing war in ukraine, and the brutal attacks on civilians in mariupol, known as terrorist acts. the world order and the distribution of power are constantly challenged. western democratic values are still not acceptable to the aggressors, whatever the basis they base their attacks on - religious, national or any other - these are crimes against humanity that cannot continue. i agree that the council, the commission, the member states must exchange information, consult with the parties concerned on counter-terrorism measures. but i would like to point out that counter-terrorism measures today must be taken not only after the attacks in paris but also after the attacks in mariupol. terrorism is ever closer within the eu and at its borders, and it is never more painful to acknowledge that today ukraine is in a constant war with an unpredictable aggressor, and the ukrainian people are fighting a hard battle for their state every day since november 2013. so, to sum up, it is with deep sympathy that i say not only "to charlie", but also "to mariupol", "to valnovakha".
in writing. i welcome the commission's proposal for a european fund for strategic investments, which aims to bring europe out of recession. i believe that europe urgently needs an investment plan, because we cannot continue to blame everything on the economic downturn and cover ourselves with the crisis by cutting budgets, imposing social guarantees and saving at the expense of people. according to the commission, the european fund for strategic investments will support strategic investments in infrastructure of european interest, in particular broadband internet and energy supply networks, as well as transport infrastructure, in particular in industrial centres. it will also be dedicated to education, research and innovation and renewable energy and energy efficiency. the plan is to focus more on small and medium-sized enterprises. however, i wonder whether the commission has not seen the social return for europe of this investment plan. how much is expected to be created or improved in terms of the quality of existing jobs? in other words, what will be the concrete impact of the investment plan on people? in addition, in order to make the european fund for strategic investments as effective as possible, i would urge the member states to ensure that investment does not create just any jobs, but socially secure jobs, increases employment and that some social impact assessment is carried out.
the question asked when the blue card is raised. i would like to ask my colleagues whether you are satisfied with the information provided by the commission that it can increase by up to 25%, some say even by 50%. that's one thing. the second thing is, if it's really that expensive, what are we eating? what kind of meat?
indeed, it is deeply worrying to hear that strides are being made to abolish the right of workers to strike under international labour law, thereby undermining the established case law of the ilo on the universally recognised right of workers to strike, destabilising the long-established ilo dispute settlement system and indeed weakening social dialogue, with a consequent detriment to both sides, but most of all to the workers. it is indeed a pity that the aim is not to clarify the content of the ilo convention on freedom of association, but only to destabilise the existing supervisory mechanism. this situation cannot be tolerated when it comes to workers' right to strike. this is a very important guarantee that people at work are not exploited and that their rights are not violated. i would ask you, commissioner, to help me personally and the commission to resolve this situation, to protect the rights of our citizens, our workers, and, most importantly, to help the member states of the european union to speak with one voice in this situation.
the question asked when the blue card is raised. madam president, i would really like to ask you whether we would not have a better result in terms of youth employment if we could decentralise these opportunities, because as we know, individual countries are very centralised and have very little capacity to support local authorities, regional authorities, and each local authority wants to tackle these very complex problems. so it is by decentralising and enabling local and regional authorities to not only participate but also contribute to these problems that we will get the best effect.
the question asked when the blue card is raised. thank you very much indeed, i will repeat the question. do you think it would be more effective if youth support were more decentralised in europe, as there are some countries where it is highly centralised? each local authority wants to solve these problems, but has no means, so that both local and regional authorities can contribute and we would have a much smaller problem.
in fact, in this parliament we are constantly discussing and seeking solutions to increase youth employment. unfortunately, the results are not yet very encouraging. the fact that 7.5 million young people are neither in employment nor in education is a real reproach to us politicians for having to look for concrete solutions, and that is why i am certainly in favour of the commission's proposal to increase prefinancing to 30%, and if member states make wise use of this, the situation in the member states should certainly change, because not all member states have been able to implement the youth employment initiative so far because of the economic situation, so this proposal is really very important. training, appropriate and early vocational guidance, and the quality of the science applied to the labour market are essential and necessary conditions for the creation of jobs and for the recruitment of these young people. i therefore urge the council to support this commission proposal and at the same time to encourage the member states to make the most of the european union's advance payment aid, because with this increased funding we will certainly be able to bring a significant number of young people back into the labour market.
the question asked when the blue card is raised. madam president, i would like to ask you: there are in fact considerable differences in wages in europe, especially in minimum wages, and people in different areas are protected differently. i wanted to ask you what you think, although the general movement of capital in europe is free, and the movement of people, and the movement of goods, but in order for people to live in dignity, should we not talk about introducing some kind of minimum compulsory income in all the countries of the european union, which companies should adhere to, and then people can participate fully in other financial instruments as well.
the question asked when the blue card is raised. there is no doubt that the exchange of information will reduce the number of infringements, and that is our aim. i would like to ask whether the requirement that all countries use cars that can be driven either on the left or on the right will reduce road safety, given that different countries have different infrastructures.
in writing. i wholeheartedly support the report. i believe that the european parliament is in a position to adopt a new directive by 6 may 2015 and avoid legal uncertainty in almost all member states that have already transposed the provisions of the repealed directive into their national law. the directive brings concrete benefits firstly, it allows all european drivers to be treated equally, regardless of where their cars are registered. it makes it harder for offenders to escape, which contributes to a safer europe. it is a pity that my country has been statistically the first in the dead roads for several years. it is a sad statistic, but on the other hand, our supervisory authorities are interested in receiving information about violations committed by our citizens abroad. this information opens the door to restricting the right to drive to those who are systematic offenders and thus pose a threat to citizens of their own country and of other countries. war on the roads must be stopped and this directive is one of the means to do so.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the word that best describes today’s debate is ‘enough’. enough pretending that we do not understand what is really happening in ukraine. enough pretending that we do not understand who, and with whose arms, is killing thousands of ukrainians, even today. enough pretending that we do not understand that this war is putin’s war against us all. dear colleagues, today we must together say to our governments and our people: enough of lies, enough of hesitation, enough of weakness. let us act!
mr president, to be able to stop the ongoing aggression of the russian federation against ukraine we need to be united and strong. however, the reality might be different as, in recent efforts, the european union was reduced to only two member states. in order to sustain the eu’s common foreign and security policy the high representative must be included. we need, and we will need, not just to achieve but to implement a peaceful settlement with the common voice of the 28. today is the 60th day on which nadia savchenko, a ukrainian pilot, has been on hunger strike. to protest against the unlawful and inhuman action of the russian authorities a number of members of the european parliament have joined her and are going on hunger strike for a day or two. today beatriz becerra is on hunger strike. i call on other colleagues, as well as the high representative, to join us in this symbolic action, demanding the immediate release of nadia savchenko.
in writing. dear prime minister, high representative, colleagues, tomorrow is a very important day for the people of ukraine and for europe. it is a pity that on the eve of this important meeting, today, blood is being shed again in ukraine, the fighting continues, people are dying. we expect a very concrete outcome from tomorrow's meeting - an agreement, imperfect though it may be, but acceptable to all parties, to end the use of force as soon as possible and to agree on the future of the occupied territories of ukraine so that the country can gradually get back on its feet. ukraine, by asking for the absence of new sanctions against russia for the time being, shows the world its goodwill in making every effort to find a peaceful solution despite the extremely tense and difficult situation. i would very much like to believe that other parties to the peace process will follow her example.
the issue of nuclear proliferation is multifaceted, complex and depends on the overall situation in the world. so it is clear that, realistically, the forthcoming npt review meeting will not be an easy one. we still have unresolved problems with iran over its nuclear programme, north korea whose actions are unpredictable, and today we have the crisis in ukraine and the occupation of parts of it. so today we have entered a new phase in which the confrontation between russia and the west is intensifying, and the question of nuclear weapons is becoming a matter of particular political importance. this treaty was one of the most significant agreements of the cold war era, and has thus far prevented the use of nuclear weapons for military purposes. it is therefore hoped that, in the context of the negotiations on the revision of the treaty, and in this very difficult period, political will and a common desire to ensure lasting peace and stability in the world will form the basis for a new agreement.
female genital mutilation reflects a deeply rooted gender inequality and the most brutal form of discrimination against women in some regions of the world, and often even in our europe, and violates their right to health, safety, bodily integrity and the right not to be tortured in the most cruel way. millions of girls and women around the world today have experienced this violent crime, and it's not just an external problem. and in europe, there are about half a million women who have suffered genital mutilation, and there are only 41 criminal cases for this crime across europe, according to the institute for gender equality. we need to raise awareness and understanding of this form of violence against women in our societies. what, specifically, should the european union do? the first is to apply effective criminal law, to strengthen the network of preventive measures, from properly trained medical staff to social and educational workers. we look forward to your concrete actions and active work in this area, commissioner.
in writing. as the current painful events concerning our lithuanian children in norway show, the hague convention on international child abduction, which complements the convention on the protection of children, is of paramount importance in protecting the interests and rights of the child, as the convention provides for the immediate return of abducted children to their country of residence. this hague convention is important because it provides a framework within which participating states can cooperate to find solutions in cases of international child abduction. it also provides for the courts with jurisdiction and the law applicable to the decision on the child's place of residence. most important, it is this convention that provides for the prompt return of abducted children to their country of residence. in many cases, these problems arise when couples separate. if the mother and father are from different countries, there is a desire to take advantage of the lack of cooperation between these countries in order to secure custody of the child. in these cases, the main problem is the national bias of the legal systems of individual countries. often, the courts of both countries recognise their jurisdiction and each country grants custody to the parent who is a national of their respective country. this area falls within the exclusive sphere of external competence of the eu. the member states therefore no longer have the right to act on their own initiative. the main problem is that the convention does not provide for the possibility of independent action by international organisations.
in writing. mr president, the report under discussion raises very important questions relating to the civil aspects of international child abduction. this is regulated by the 1980 hague convention. today, the european parliament is voting to accept the accession of eight new countries to the convention. i think there shouldn't even be any doubt. the more countries adopt international standards on this issue, the better off the children will be. the family is one of the fundamental values of society and the institutions should protect it also through legal means, in particular by protecting the best interests of children. according to the latest eurostat data, as many as 140 000 families of different nationalities are separating each year in the european union. it is increasingly the case that former spouses live in different countries, including outside the european union, and that children are abducted by one of the parents. for this reason, the hague convention is an important instrument in establishing a mechanism allowing states to cooperate in addressing issues of abduction. the biggest problem in such cases is the state's legal framework. it is often the case that the courts grant custody to a parent who is a national of the country where the court is located. this convention seeks to remedy such situations. the accession of 8 new countries to the convention is a cause for celebration, as it is about protecting children worldwide.
sometimes the word 'war on terror' is no longer appropriate. europe has been fighting an undeclared war for more than a year, and there are differences of opinion about its scale: some may see it as a local one, others may speak of a global terrorism. but whatever the threat of total war, we must also pay attention to the economic issues of europe. some of the issues, particularly financial ones, are of very serious concern here, but the recent increase in social exclusion is likely to be no less worrying. in europe, a new class of the poor and socially excluded is rapidly emerging, with a constant lack of income for consumption and a decent living. i therefore reiterate my call for a uniform minimum income per person to be established in the european union. i would ask the heads of state to urge the european commission to take a legislative initiative to establish a standard of living that meets the criteria of a minimum basic income throughout the european union. it should be recalled that almost 200 meps from different eu countries have already endorsed such initiatives.
the question asked when the blue card is raised. there is a lot of talk about sanctions against russia, but individual european countries today support russia by buying energy from it, for example, lithuania has a gas terminal, but the use is minimal, we cannot even sell to latvia, because the latvian economy is controlled by gazprom. isn't it time to act and at least temporarily abandon russia's energy source?
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal on safeguard measures in the agreement with iceland. the purpose of the proposal is to codify existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it gives the european parliament its support for the codification of the agreement between the european community and the republic of iceland on safeguard measures. as early as 1 april 1987, the commission decided that all eu legislation which had been amended no more than ten times should be codified, and stressed that this requirement was minimal and that the commission departments should endeavour to produce codified versions of the texts for which they were responsible within a shorter timeframe in order to ensure that their provisions were clear and easily understandable. this practice has been adopted by the european legislator to make it more understandable and accessible to citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for measures relating to anti-dumping and anti-subsidy matters. the purpose of the proposal is to codify existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it supports the european parliament's position on the codification of the measures that the union may take on the basis of the report adopted by the wto dispute settlement body on anti-dumping and anti-subsidy matters, without changing the substance of the regulation itself. codification of legislation is necessary to make it more understandable and accessible to citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal on the combined effect of anti-dumping or subsidy insurance and safeguard measures. the purpose of the proposal is to codify existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it supports the european parliament's position on the codification of the measures that the union may take on the basis of the report adopted by the wto dispute settlement body on anti-dumping and anti-subsidy matters, without changing the substance of the regulation itself. codification of legislation is necessary to make it more understandable and accessible to citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal on common import rules. the purpose of the proposal is to codify existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's endorsement of the codification of the regulation on common rules for imports of textile products from third countries. as early as 1 april 1987, the commission decided that all eu legislation which had been amended no more than ten times should be codified, and stressed that this requirement was minimal and that the commission departments should endeavour to produce codified versions of the texts for which they were responsible within a shorter timeframe in order to ensure that their provisions were clear and easily understandable. this practice has been adopted by the european legislator to make it more understandable and accessible to citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal on common export rules. the purpose of the proposal is to codify existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it supports the european parliament's proposal to codify the regulation on common rules for exports from third countries. codification of legislation is necessary to make it more understandable and accessible to citizens. this regulation provides that products are exported from the union to third countries without restrictions, that is to say, without any quantitative limitations.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at gabon's accession to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 provides for a framework for cooperation between contracting parties in dealing with cases of international child abduction and has been ratified by all eu member states. often, such problems arise when couples of different nationalities separate. the lack of cooperation between states is often exploited to secure custody of the child. the media is full of reports of international child abductions by divorced couples. the convention aims to address these problems at international level by establishing that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the state in which the child resides. the convention also provides for a system to ensure the prompt return of a child who has been abducted. gabon's accession to the convention is a positive step towards ensuring the protection of those children.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it supports the european parliament's accession of gabon to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention provides for a system of cooperation between the contracting parties to deal with cases of international child abduction. gabon's accession to the convention is important because a significant number of eu citizens are of gabonese origin. thus, children with relatives in the gabonese community will be protected from abduction.
the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important document. it has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention provides for a system of cooperation between the contracting parties to deal with cases of international child abduction. gabon's accession to the convention is good news, especially since a large number of eu citizens are of gabonese origin. thus, children with relatives in the gabonese community will be protected from abduction.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at the accession of andorra to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 provides for a framework for cooperation between contracting parties in dealing with cases of international child abduction and has been ratified by all eu member states. often, such problems arise when couples of different nationalities separate. the lack of cooperation between states is often exploited to secure custody of the child. the media is full of reports of international child abductions by divorced couples. the convention aims to address these problems at international level by establishing that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the state in which the child resides. the convention also provides for a system to ensure the prompt return of a child who has been abducted. the accession of andorra to the convention is a positive step towards ensuring the protection of those children.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it supports the accession of andorra to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the accession of andorra to the convention is important because a significant number of eu citizens are of andorran origin. the children with ties to the andorran community will thus be protected from legal measures of abduction.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important document. it has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention provides for a system of cooperation between the contracting parties to deal with cases of international child abduction. andorra's accession to the convention is good news, especially since a large number of eu citizens are of andorran origin. children with ties to the andorran community will thus be protected from abduction.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion, which aims to bring the seychelles into line with the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 provides for a framework for cooperation between contracting parties in dealing with cases of international child abduction and has been ratified by all eu member states. often, such problems arise when couples of different nationalities separate. the lack of cooperation between states is often exploited to secure custody of the child. the media is full of reports of international child abductions by divorced couples. the convention aims to address these problems at international level by establishing that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the state in which the child resides. the convention also provides for a system to ensure the prompt return of a child who has been abducted. the accession of seychelles to the convention is a positive step towards ensuring that the protection of those children is ensured.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it supports the accession of the seychelles to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. seychelles' accession to the convention is good news. the rapporteur fully supports this accession, especially since a large number of eu citizens are of seychelles origin. thus, children with links to the seychelles community would be protected from abduction by legal means.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important document. it has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention provides for a system of cooperation between the contracting parties to deal with cases of international child abduction.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at russia's accession to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 provides for a framework for cooperation between contracting parties in dealing with cases of international child abduction and has been ratified by all eu member states. often, such problems arise when couples of different nationalities separate. the lack of cooperation between states is often exploited to secure custody of the child. the media is full of reports of international child abductions by divorced couples. the convention aims to address these problems at international level by establishing that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the state in which the child resides. the convention also provides for a system to ensure the prompt return of a child who has been abducted. russia's accession to the convention is a positive step towards ensuring that these children are protected.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it supports the european parliament's support for russia's accession to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. russia's accession to the convention is good news. the rapporteur fully supports this accession, especially since a large number of eu citizens are of russian origin. thus, children with ties to the russian community would be protected from abduction by legal means.
in writing. the accession of all countries, including europe's neighbours, to the hague convention, which aims to ensure the prompt return of children who have been illegally removed to or retained in any contracting state, is of the utmost importance. however, i would like to point out that there is great concern today about the actions of the authorities in some countries, such as norway, which restrict or deprive citizens of other countries living there of their right to fatherhood. reports have surfaced that parents in russia, poland, and lithuania are forced to break the law and kidnap their children from foster homes. i would like to draw the attention of members of parliament to this problem and to stress that cultural differences, child-rearing traditions, even a poor knowledge of the local language, lack of money cannot be grounds for taking children away from their legal parents. in the meantime, the european parliament must take measures to protect the children and families of european union citizens. norway has already announced the search for several illegally removed children and today we are faced with a difficult situation. it is also important that the norwegian courts cannot give custody of the child to the grandparents or relatives because they live in another country. we must ensure that the illegal abduction of children is prevented, but we must also protect the interests of children, the interests of citizens of the european union. if so, parents would no longer have to take drastic measures to save their families.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important document. it has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention provides for a system of cooperation between the contracting parties to deal with cases of international child abduction. the accession of the russian federation to this convention is of great benefit in view of the number of citizens of the russian federation or persons of russian origin in the countries of the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at albania's accession to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 provides for a framework for cooperation between contracting parties in dealing with cases of international child abduction and has been ratified by all eu member states. often, such problems arise when couples of different nationalities separate. the lack of cooperation between states is often exploited to secure custody of the child. the media is full of reports of international child abductions by divorced couples. the convention aims to address these problems at international level by establishing that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the state in which the child resides. the convention also provides for a system to ensure the prompt return of a child who has been abducted. the accession of albania to the convention is a positive step towards ensuring that the children concerned are protected.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it supports the european parliament's accession of albania to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. russia's accession to the convention is good news. the rapporteur fully supports this accession, especially since a large number of eu citizens are of albanian origin. thus, children with ties to the albanian community would be protected from abduction by legal means.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important document. it has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention provides for a system of cooperation between the contracting parties to deal with cases of international child abduction. the accession of albania to this convention is, in my view, one of the most important agreements of this bloc, in view of the number of cases involving albanian nationals.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion, which aims to bring singapore into line with the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 provides for a framework for cooperation between contracting parties in dealing with cases of international child abduction and has been ratified by all eu member states. often, such problems arise when couples of different nationalities separate. the lack of cooperation between states is often exploited to secure custody of the child. the media is full of reports of international child abductions by divorced couples. the convention aims to address these problems at international level by establishing that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the state in which the child resides. the convention also provides for a system to ensure the prompt return of a child who has been abducted. the accession of singapore to the convention is a positive step towards ensuring that these children are protected.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it supports the accession of singapore to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. singapore's accession to the convention is good news. the rapporteur fully supports this accession, especially given the close economic ties between the eu and singapore. thus, children with ties to the singaporean community would be protected from legal abduction.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important document. it has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention provides for a system of cooperation between the contracting parties to deal with cases of international child abduction. although singapore has a small population in the european union, singapore has a significant number of permanent or temporary workers from the european union, with an open immigration policy, which makes its accession to the convention significant.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at morocco's accession to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 provides for a framework for cooperation between contracting parties in dealing with cases of international child abduction and has been ratified by all eu member states. often, such problems arise when couples of different nationalities separate. the lack of cooperation between states is often exploited to secure custody of the child. the media is full of reports of international child abductions by divorced couples. the convention aims to address these problems at international level by establishing that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the state in which the child resides. the convention also provides for a system to ensure the prompt return of a child who has been abducted. the accession of morocco to the convention is a positive step towards ensuring the protection of those children.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it supports the accession of morocco to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the accession of morocco to the convention is good news. the rapporteur fully supports this accession, especially since a large number of eu citizens are of moroccan origin. the children with ties to the moroccan community would thus be protected from abduction by legal means.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important document. it has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention provides for a system of cooperation between the contracting parties to deal with cases of international child abduction. the large number of moroccan nationals or residents of moroccan origin living in the european union makes ratification of this convention of paramount importance.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion, which aims at armenia's accession to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 provides for a framework for cooperation between contracting parties in dealing with cases of international child abduction and has been ratified by all eu member states. often, such problems arise when couples of different nationalities separate. the lack of cooperation between states is often exploited to secure custody of the child. the media is full of reports of international child abductions by divorced couples. the convention aims to address these problems at international level by establishing that the competent courts and the applicable laws are those of the state in which the child resides. the convention also provides for a system to ensure the prompt return of a child who has been abducted. the accession of armenia to the convention is a positive step towards ensuring that the children concerned are protected.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it supports the european parliament's accession of armenia to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the accession of armenia to the convention is good news. the rapporteur fully supports this accession, especially since a large number of eu citizens are of armenian origin. thus, children with ties to the armenian community would be protected from abduction by legal means.
in writing. the legitimate interests of the child must always and everywhere be paramount, since children are victims themselves, caught in the war of parental ambitions. the more states that accede to the convention, the easier it will be to resolve international child abduction conflicts and to ensure effective protection of the interests of the child at international level. only in close cooperation between states can the full well-being of children be ensured. it should be noted that any issues concerning the child must be assessed in the light of the child's best interests and must be ensured that these interests are not prejudiced. the child must not become a hostage to the ambitions of the parents but also a victim of imperfect international law and its application. it is therefore essential that the child's best interests are protected and that his or her right to contact both parents is guaranteed in the context of a custody battle in divorce cases. it is essential that all states act in a targeted manner to prevent international child abduction and that a system of judicial and administrative institutions is established that is operational.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to declare the mandate of the members of the european parliament whose election has been notified by the competent authorities of the member states as valid. this proposal relates to the results of the direct elections to the european parliament, which were held on 22-25 may 2014. i support the proposals set out below, which provide the competent authorities of the member states with the names of the persons who can immediately replace meps, listed in order of the number of votes received. it is also necessary to conclude without delay the examination of the disputes submitted to them and to inform parliament of the results. i support calls for member states to ensure that registration formalities for citizens of other member states participating in european elections are simplified, whether they are voters or candidates, in particular by removing unnecessary administrative barriers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it concludes the european parliament's examination of the credentials of the members of the european parliament elected in the member states on 22 may 2014 and publishes the list of members of the european parliament currently in force. this is necessary because, for some time after the elections, the member states are still debating the final list of members of the european parliament elected in those countries. the reasons for the conflicts are varied, ranging from the right to stand for election as defined by national law (a problematic situation in cyprus, denmark, ireland, malta and the united kingdom) to conflicts of interest incompatible with the duties of a member of the european parliament. the list of members of the european parliament approved is annexed to this communication.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this proposal of broadening the initial directive 2011/82/eu because it provides the legal basis for improving security of european roads. to begin with, it allows the sharing of information relating to road safety violations between traffic enforcement agencies of member states at union level. i think this will help to stop impunity of traffic violators who committed a violation in a state other than their home state because it will be much easier to find, notify and if necessary punish those breaching traffic rules accordingly. in addition, the proposal has broadened the initial scope of the directive by including such offences as driving a vehicle without a helmet, driving while using mobile devices or being under the influence of drugs as well as incorporating such countries the united kingdom, ireland and denmark into the agreement. in my opinion it is likely that more extensive scope of resolution will contribute to the lowering of the overall number of fatalities in the eu. overall, i believe that this resolution, like its predecessor, will ensure greater traffic safety throughout europe and will work as a deterrent regarding reckless driving.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which will allow eu member states to exchange information on road safety violations and good drivers. most offences, especially speeding, are committed by foreigners rather than by residents of the countries where they are committed. one of the main reasons is that the authorities, not knowing the residence of the owner of the vehicle, cannot notify him of the fine. the proposal provides that the authorities responsible for road safety in the member states could request data on the owner of a foreign-registered vehicle if he has committed an infringement, in order to be able to inform him of the infringement committed in the language of the country concerned. the directive contributes to the eu's target of halving the number of road traffic fatalities and reducing the number of injuries by 40% by 2020. i support the proposals to strengthen this system so that infringements can not only be reported but also be effectively sanctioned.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's endorsement of police cooperation in all eu countries in cases of road safety violations. drivers who break road safety rules in another eu country will now be fined in their country of residence. the eu decided to adopt legislation to allow police to exchange data on offenders between member states, as it was found that most offences, particularly speeding, were committed by foreigners rather than by residents of the countries where they were committed. this directive thus enables the authorities of the member states responsible for traffic and road safety to require the owner of a foreign-registered vehicle to provide information on him in the event of an offence involving a serious risk to road safety, in order to be able to inform him of the offence committed in the language of the country concerned. it was agreed that fines would be imposed across the eu for the main offences: speeding, driving without a seatbelt, running a red light, driving in a reckless manner, driving in a restricted lane and using a mobile phone while driving.
in writing. i believe that this directive should enter into force as soon as possible in order to fill the legal vacuum in this area. it is worth noting that many countries have invested heavily in the relevant systems and that the exchange of information is already taking place. this is a necessary measure to combat road safety violations. in particular, it will make it possible to prosecute drivers irrespective of the country of registration of their vehicles, thus complementing the already established mechanism for the exchange of information. the proposed system will also make it easier to collect fines, prevent impunity for foreigners and ensure that all europeans comply with road rules.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at concluding a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and senegal. one of the principles of the agreement is to create a level playing field for eu fleets by stipulating that senegal undertakes not to grant more favourable conditions to other fleets when the characteristics of the vessels are the same and they fish for the same species. senegal will receive a financial contribution of eur 8 690 000 for the annual financial compensation and support for the senegalese fisheries policy. given the availability of fish stocks and the possibility of future cooperation on other fish species, as well as the possibility of supplying quality fish products to the eu market, this new partnership agreement is beneficial for both parties.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it gives the european parliament its support for the conclusion of a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and senegal. the commission has proposed to conclude, on behalf of the eu, an agreement aimed at establishing a new framework for cooperation between the eu and senegal. one of the principles of the agreement is to create a level playing field for the eu fleets by providing that senegal undertakes not to grant more favourable conditions to other fleets than those provided for in the agreement, where the characteristics of the vessels are the same and they fish for the same species. the port of dakar is a commercial port of senegal, internationally important due to its geographical location. the new partnership agreement is mutually beneficial, given the fish stocks available and the possibility of future cooperation on more species, as well as the possibility of developing the local fisheries industry in cooperation with eu vessels and supplying quality fish products to the eu market.
in writing. i give my consent to the conclusion of this agreement. the provisions of this agreement will create a level playing field for the eu fleet and ensure fair competition. it is worth noting that this partnership is beneficial to both parties, as it would help both the republic of senegal and the european union to create new jobs and develop a fisheries-related industry. it is important to stress that the eu has a major responsibility for ensuring the conservation and sustainable management of international fisheries resources, and it is therefore essential that each fisheries partnership agreement sets out the principles of good regulation of the fisheries sector and sound maritime management, thus ensuring the development of sustainable and responsible fisheries and the enhancement of the value of fishery products worldwide.
in writing. i support this resolution, which aims to assess the torture of suspected terrorists by the us central intelligence agency and to instruct the committee on civil liberties and foreign affairs and the subcommittee on human rights to reopen the investigation into possible cia prisoner transfers and illegal detention in european countries.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. in view of the gruesome details contained in the report, it is necessary to reopen as soon as possible the investigation into the alleged transportation and illegal detention of prisoners by the cia in european countries. the cia's program of secret detention and extraordinary rendition has fostered an atmosphere of impunity and facilitated the perpetration of atrocities. in addition, the authors of the detention and interrogation programme or its direct implementers have not been held legally accountable to date. it is therefore essential that member states carry out independent and comprehensive investigations into cases of illegal transfer, detention and torture and finally bring the perpetrators of these offences to justice. each country has a duty to protect itself, but it must do so by legitimate means. it is therefore essential to close legal loopholes, to ensure a fair legal process and to prevent the implementation of such opaque programmes in the future.
in writing. first of all, i would like to emphasise that this resolution is gaining weight because of several accents. first, it calls on the united states to cooperate in response to all requests from eu member states for information on the investigation carried out. only then can we ensure that thorough investigations are carried out in europe and help to uncover the truth. secondly, the resolution instructs the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, with the participation of the committee on foreign affairs and, in particular, the subcommittee on human rights, to reopen the inquiry into 'the alleged cia prisoner trafficking and illegal detention in european countries' and to report to the plenary within one year. this will also encourage research in the member states, as they will be more interested in collecting the information themselves before the report is published in the european parliament. i also want to take this opportunity to say that i do not condone the use of harsh interrogation methods, which are inhuman, torture, and unlawful detention. these are huge mistakes that have been made here in europe as well. while i realize that this cannot make up for the damage done, as a european, i want to feel for all those people who have been tortured and have gone through a real hell. i condemn those who have contributed to this, who have turned a blind eye or pretended not to know what is happening.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution because it offers a comprehensive approach to counter-terrorism policy by addressing both: ways to tackle the root causes of terrorist behaviour and other preventive measures to counter radicalisation. i believe that not only atrocities committed in paris but all the acts of terrorism and glorification of such acts should be decried in the strongest terms and an appropriate preventive mechanism for dealing with this phenomenon should be implemented. subject to this, i agree with this resolution by being strongly convinced that freedom and security dimensions are closely interrelated and co-dependent and, hence, there has to be a balance between the two. this means that failing to secure one has detrimental repercussions on the other. in addition, i support the reasoning expressed in the resolution that the european institutions need to invest more in combating the root causes of terrorism and in order to be prepared for counter-terrorism actions at all times. moreover, as stressed in the text, i agree that it is very important to demand democratic oversight of these efforts to ensure that protection of personal liberty, which is one of the core human rights, is not undermined.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to introduce measures to combat terrorism. i support calls for member states to improve the exchange of information needed to combat terrorism, both among themselves and with third countries, and to ensure full cooperation with specialised agencies, in particular eurojust and europol. i believe that the fight against the illicit trade in arms should be a priority area in the eu's fight against serious transnational organised crime, in line with the calls for proper implementation of the anti-money laundering directives. it is essential to establish a european passenger name record (pnr) system, to ensure the prevention of radicalisation, to improve the exchange of information and to strengthen the protection of the external schengen borders.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it is a call for counter-terrorism measures by parliament, especially after the recent tragic events in paris. in its resolution, parliament stresses that prevention strategies to combat terrorism should be comprehensive, aimed at directly combating the preparation of attacks on eu territory, and also include the need to respond to the causes of terrorism. the fight against terrorism must aim at combating in a coherent manner factors such as radicalisation leading to violent extremism, developing social cohesion and inclusion, political and religious tolerance, avoiding the creation of ghettos, addressing and countering incitement to commit terrorist attacks via the internet, as well as preventing and restricting the movement of persons to join terrorist organisations, preventing and restricting the recruitment for armed conflict, disrupting the provision of financial assistance to terrorist organisations and individuals joining them, ensuring strong prosecution where necessary and providing law enforcement authorities with the appropriate means to fulfil their duties in full respect of fundamental rights. the other crucial element in the fight against the threat of terrorism, which parliament stresses, is education, and it therefore calls on the member states to invest in education systems aimed at addressing the causes of radicalisation and to promote integration, social inclusion, dialogue, participation, equality, tolerance, intercultural and religious understanding and rehabilitation programmes through education programmes.
in writing. the growing threat of terrorism and violent extremism poses a major threat to the security of europe as a whole and to the freedom of every citizen. the recent tragic terrorist incidents not only within europe but also in the eu's immediate neighbourhood are a constant reminder of the need to update and concretise the current counter-terrorism strategy and to promote as much as possible cooperation between international organisations, member states and specialised agencies in this field. the fight against terrorist groups and organisations supporting them must be one of the eu's top security priorities. for these reasons, i strongly support this european parliament resolution and its calls on the commission and the council to review and thoroughly assess the current eu counter-terrorism measures without delay and to adopt an updated counter-terrorism programme.
in writing. it is crucial today to address the causes of terrorism rather than fighting the consequences. clearly, in many lands, the idea is that having a large number of armed soldiers and police on the streets will provide security. but is that really the case? i did the opposite. this is a great example of how to deal with consequences. countering terrorism, especially given that terrorists are often people living in europe, is a multi-faceted process. first, investment in the education system. european values must not remain on paper, they must be taught in schools. there is no doubt that fostering conflict between people of different religions, beliefs, backgrounds leads to destruction. secondly, reducing social inequalities. today we are nurturing an increasingly evil society, whose representatives - unemployed, without access to medicine, forgotten and abandoned by all - are becoming more and more radical. and that leads to self-destruction. thirdly, we must ensure that the institutions responsible work effectively. we cannot tolerate the kalashnikov vending machines on the streets. we must ensure that security personnel are prepared for challenges, are well informed and know how to act in the event of a threat. security officers must not be tasked with posing weapons, but with constant, consistent work.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to extend the mandate of the internet governance forum. the purpose of the igf is to provide a forum for forward-looking discussions on a wide range of internet governance issues and, where appropriate, to provide recommendations to the international community. the ep sends delegations to each annual igf meeting, promoting european values and communicating with civil society organisations and representatives of national parliaments who have participated in those events. the eu has a duty to increase the influence of these shifts in opinion in the political debate. i agree that there is a good chance to learn from the productive discussions held at the igf so far and to take action, particularly in the areas of regulatory aspects of electronic communications and data protection.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it was parliament's call for the mandate of the internet governance forum to be extended. role and function of the internet governance forum (igf) to discuss various internet governance issues at the highest global level and, where appropriate, to provide recommendations to the international community. the growth associated with the internet economy is projected to be close to 11% in the eu and its share of gdp is expected to increase from 3,8% in 2010 to 5,7% in 2016. in general, the internet is a key pillar of the digital single market and promotes, among other things, innovation, growth, trade, democracy, cultural diversity and human rights, and parliament therefore encouraged the un general assembly in this resolution to extend the igf's mandate, increase its resources and strengthen the multisubject governance model of the internet.
there is no doubt that consumers have an interest in having all the information they need about food, its composition and its origin. that is why i voted in favour and i am glad that the absolute majority also voted in favour. this is a call to the commission to prepare legislation as a matter of urgency to reflect the views expressed in the european parliament's public opinion surveys. the indication of the country or place of origin of meat and meat products will not in itself prevent fraud and i therefore fully support the commission's obligation to continue to investigate the practice of indicating the origin of meat in processed foods and to inform the public of the results of the investigation. this will help to increase consumer confidence in the products and encourage the public to seek information and judge products not by the beauty of the packaging but by their content. in addition, consumers who are concerned about the environment will be able to use a local product that is less polluting.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to establish rules requiring manufacturers of processed foods containing meat to indicate the origin of the meat. a consumer survey carried out by the european commission showed that 9 out of 10 respondents are interested in knowing the origin of the meat in processed foods. the label would apply to products such as lasagna or bologna sauce. i agree that more detailed information on the packaging would help to trace the meat suppliers and ensure the quality of the meat and would allow the confidence of consumers to be restored after the horse scandal.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it supported the right of the consumer to know the country of origin of meat used in processed meat products. this document therefore provides that special labelling for processed meat products will henceforth have to be introduced. the 2013 food chain assessment consortium consumer survey showed that the country of origin labelling of meat foods was the most popular among the various food groups assessed. furthermore, after a closer examination of the different types of processed meat products, the results of the survey showed that more than 90% of the consumers surveyed considered it important to indicate the country of origin.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to evaluate the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly (jpa). the jpa is a joint institution of the cotonou agreement, providing the european parliament and acp parliamentarians with the opportunity to conduct an open, democratic and comprehensive dialogue on the implementation of this agreement. the worsening political and humanitarian situation in some acp countries and regions is of concern, and i therefore support the calls for the jha to continue monitoring the situation in crisis-affected acp countries, to focus more on fragile states and to call on acp and eu states to coordinate their response to the ebola outbreak in west africa. the ep's meetings, including those of the standing committees, are of great importance and i therefore support calls for meps to participate more actively in them.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it provides an assessment of the work of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) and eu joint parliamentary assemblies (jpas). in its resolution, parliament noted that the jpa had become a genuine parliamentary assembly, where the most important issues in development cooperation could be discussed openly and honestly, and which made a major contribution to the development of an equal partnership between the acp countries and the eu. parliament therefore called for the political dialogue to be further strengthened and highlighted the role of the jha in promoting and defending the rule of law and good governance in the african, caribbean and pacific countries.
no country can fight this terrible phenomenon alone, because the internet has no borders. i think it is clear that the state surveillance authorities do not always have the resources to track down crimes committed, much less prevent them. the aim of change is therefore not only to increase accountability for child abuse, but also to ensure more funding for the authorities responsible, and joint training and information for staff in the european union and other countries. it is also necessary to improve cooperation between the supervisory authorities of the different member states. it is necessary to ensure that information reaches the different authorities quickly and that joint rapid response plans are established and kept up to date. (the president agreed to answer the question put by the person who raised the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to the question posed by the blue card. thank you for your question, mr president. i think there are a number of possible solutions, but they need to be explained and discussed with experts, how to do it, how much it will cost and whether it will work. then you should do a proper examination.
, in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. in particular, it is necessary to take action to ensure that an independent inquiry is carried out into the fate of all missing persons in cyprus and that due respect is shown not only to the missing persons but also to their family members. each country has an unconditional obligation to uphold human rights standards and to prevent any violation of human rights. international law and the decisions of the ecthr must be implemented without delay. given the role of the committee on the search for missing persons, it is necessary to further promote its activities by improving the conditions for the achievement of the objectives set. it is also essential that turkey cooperate more closely with the parties concerned in addressing this problem and facilitate the search for missing graves, as well as properly implement its international obligations to compensate the families of missing persons.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution because its rhetoric proposes some cornerstone guidelines for international action in the face of the ongoing crisis in iraq and syria. to begin with, the is group, among others in this conflict, has caused incalculable human suffering through its criminal activities, thus we must act without any delay in order to provide relief and assistance to the victims affected by its actions. it is important to unequivocally condemn the actions of is and other terrorist groups and appeal to the international community, member states and other eu institutions to respond politically and support the humanitarian relief efforts for the peoples affected by the despicable acts of is and other groups. hence, i think it is crucial that this resolution also supports the global campaign against is and welcomes the commitment of coalition partners in uniting to form a strategy to defeat is and stop the crisis from further escalation. when diplomatic efforts are failing we need to start considering alternative strategies. in addition to this, i congratulate the resolution’s call to the international community to ensure that conditions necessary for achieving war justice are met by increasing efforts to document the atrocities of is.
in writing. the unprecedented humanitarian crisis in syria and iraq, which has affected the lives of millions of people and is still unresolved, requires a united and clear response from the international community. terrorist groups in the middle east region defy the fundamental values of the eu and the international community as a whole, and the heinous crimes against humanity committed or already committed by terrorists pose a serious challenge to the entire system of international law. it is very important to stress that the various violations of humanitarian law currently taking place - both in the european union's immediate neighbourhood and in the middle east region and beyond - must be stopped as soon as possible and those responsible held accountable. we cannot allow the fundamental principles of international law to be violated without any concrete consequences. i therefore support this european parliament resolution, which condemns the brutal violations of human rights committed by the regime of mr al-assad and the so-called islamic state terrorists and calls on the international community to make every effort to de-escalate the situation in syria and iraq.
we must ensure that the deadlines for the creation of the single internal energy market in the european union are not postponed as they have been until now. this is also necessary to ensure that lithuania, the baltic states and other countries are not as dependent on russian electricity and gas suppliers as they are now. building the right infrastructure is not enough. in the context of the energy union, the synchronisation of the electricity networks of lithuania, the baltic states and other countries with the european networks must be one of the main priorities. a level playing field with third countries in the energy sector needs to be ensured. competitiveness and technological neutrality should be the main criteria of the european union. all forms of energy, including nuclear energy, must be treated equally. today, energy is not just an economic sector, today some people use energy as a weapon. a united and strong energy union is therefore essential. and fast, you know.
i welcome the commission's communication, mr president, on the energy union. i also welcome the vice-president of the commission, mr maroš šefčovič, who has done a really great job. i believe that in the current context, the energy union is essential for the transition to a sustainable, low-carbon and competitive economy. energy is the engine of our economy and we need to change our thinking and long-term strategies in the face of new challenges and move from an energy policy of 28 member states to a common energy policy based on internal market rules, clear and predictable long-term objectives, in which energy security and solidarity between member states play an important role. the commission has identified precisely the dimensions that need to be implemented in the near future in order to make the energy union a reality. however, i will continue to await more concrete financial mechanisms and more concrete decisions, further discussions and legislative proposals from the commission.
in writing. – today the commission presented a new energy union package. energy union was neglected for too long, leaving the eu with a highly unsatisfying and fragmented energy market overly dependent on states’ regulation. therefore, now the eu needs to speed up its work in order to become more energy independent and produce energy more efficiently and hence cheaply, simultaneously taking into account environmental standards. this can be done only by tackling the market and geopolitical security nexus, meaning that the energy sector should be considered as a part of the internal market with easy entry access, transparent rules and efficient connectivity working in full accordance with free-market principles. we have to keep a high level of advancement in creating a european energy union, especially taking into account a great need to ensure energy security as an integral part of the overall european union security strategy.
in writing. the decision to create the eu energy union is undoubtedly one of the most significant developments of the decade. however, for this union to be truly effective and to ensure the energy security and competitiveness of the eu as a whole, decisions that have often lacked political will until now will also have to be implemented. i expect the future union to pay greater attention to and support the baltic states, which have often been left to reduce their total energy dependence on a single external supplier with their own resources. we hope that the synchronisation of the baltic states with the continental european networks will become one of the key areas of the energy union. we also want to see significant changes to ensure a level playing field with third countries and greater integration of eu energy affairs into the eu's external policy.
in writing. the commission's proposal for an energy union, which is very necessary and important for europe today, is to be welcomed. this union is important because the energy system is facing increasing challenges to ensure a secure, sustainable and affordable supply of energy for all citizens. our people, their households and businesses are increasingly concerned about affordability and competitiveness of energy. unfortunately, the economic crisis has also increased energy poverty, because heating and electricity bills are so high that not everyone can afford them. another priority for the energy union is to complete the internal energy market during this new commission's term of office, in particular by fully implementing existing legislation. increasing competition should help reduce costs for citizens and businesses, increase competitiveness and stimulate job creation and economic growth. we need to pay particular attention to the needs of vulnerable consumers and take these social aspects into account. finally, i would like to mention that the situation of the baltic states with regard to full integration into the eu internal energy market is specific, as the electricity networks are operated by a third-country (russian) transmission system operator. it is therefore important to ensure the synchronisation of the member states with the continental european networks. this is the only way to ensure the integration of the baltic states into the eu's internal energy market.
in writing. – i support strongly the creation of the resilient and robust energy union, which will provide for secure, sustainable, competitive, affordable energy for every european. member states’ vulnerabilities, such as dependency on third-country suppliers and lack of interconnections with the eu networks, affect also the eu as a whole, and many of them were addressed with the third energy package as well as moving forward on infrastructure projects reflecting the european priority. however, we are still on the way to attaining goals set at the highest eu level and, with fading hopes of building a civilised relationship with our biggest supplier of energy, russia, it becomes clear that we need enhanced commitment, coordination and trust among the member states – a true energy union. among the things to be done are creating a transparency mechanism and ensuring the synchronisation of member states’ electricity networks with the eu. we also should take into account our closest neighbours, as the developments there affect the eu. i hope this european project will match the ambition and success of the projects that lay at the foundations of the european union we know today.
ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the lithuanian milk producers' conference was held. the crisis has not yet been resolved, and lithuanian milk producers are faced with the fundamental question of whether anyone still needs their milk, which costs just 12 cents a litre. this is a desperately low price that does not cover the cost of production. the compensation received by the baltic producers for the russian embargo has unfortunately not sufficiently alleviated the situation. as a result, most of our dairy farmers are in a state of total despair. it is no secret that lithuanian farmers also receive one of the lowest direct payments in the european union. this situation also reduces the competitiveness of our farmers on the european union market. the analysis shows that the price of raw milk received by the farmer has decreased significantly. meanwhile, production costs and other costs have increased several times over the decade. i call on the commission and parliament not to leave the milk producers to their own devices.
mr president, it is a pleasure to have the commissioner here tonight. the problems are actually very severe in lithuania in particular, because we have 5% of the working population working in this sector. so this is a significant problem where we genuinely need your input and ideas. how can we survive when we are taking the brunt of the russian hit? we are suffering, believe me, we are really suffering! we are coming to you for help, we are coming to you to be creative and find the help that we need. furthermore, look at what our european partners are doing. we can name it: germany has come up with a minimum wage which we cannot implement at the moment because we are not rich enough – we are not as rich as the germans. the same situation in france and belgium: they want our drivers to sleep in hotels that do not exist. let us all unite and at least help each other and not rip each other apart. we are suffering. let us all be creative, let us unite and stand against russia together.
commissioner, today there has certainly been a lot of talk about the problems that we are facing in the transport sector today, but i would like to stress that this is not a transport or economic issue. this is a political issue. this is a matter of our solidarity as the european union. and i find it a little strange that you have not said anything concrete today about the vision of the new commission. and i really feel for you personally, that you have to work in such a difficult situation. how do you envisage solving the problems of not only the baltic states, the eastern european countries, but also other countries? i fully agree and understand the italian problem with the influx of refugees into this country, the sovereignty issues of other countries, and there is also one of the political issues. do we in the european union have a certain sense and understanding of solidarity and helping each other, or will russia really continue to pursue its policy of dividing and controlling us all? i hope, therefore, commissioner, that this matter will indeed be raised to a higher political level. and we all have to find support together, not just economic support, but political support for those countries.
commissioner, despite the heavy losses caused by the russian sanctions, the lithuanian transport and logistics sector has received insufficient attention from the european commission. on the other hand, france and belgium have banned the daily rest period for drivers in vehicles, while germany has introduced a minimum hourly wage. these changes are beneficial for local carriers. meanwhile, the new requirements are intolerable for the baltic companies which suffered the greatest losses as a result of the embargo. i call on the commission to compensate the baltic carriers for the losses they have suffered and on germany, belgium and france to repeal the laws that distort competition.
in writing. a year after russia applied discriminatory customs procedures to lithuanian trailers at its border, russian discriminatory actions against lithuanian carriers are being repeated. russia is closely monitoring lithuanian shipments, as eu countries ship 'embargo' products, i.e. food and agricultural products, to russia via lithuania. russia has been able to rely on such a formal but unrealistic ground, which could discriminate against any eu country, since it ceased to benefit from the tir system more than a year ago. after withdrawing from the tir system, russia introduced a separate guarantee system, which is not approved in europe. as early as last december, i asked the commission what measures it was going to take to prevent such blatant discrimination against eu member states. the commission has not received any comments from the russian authorities on the exporting producers concerned. i received a 'concerned' reply from the commission, but it did not provide for any specific action by the commission. the commission also did not explain in its reply on what basis compensation should not be granted to lithuanian carriers to compensate for the losses they suffered as a result of discriminatory actions by russia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to mobilise the egf for poland in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by the company zachem, which is active in the chemical industry. the eu has lost a significant market share in the chemical industry and its position as a leader in global chemicals trade. 1992-2012 the eu's share of the global chemicals market fell sharply from 35.2% in 1992 to 17.8% in 2012. the egf is intended to provide a total of eur 115 205 for the redundancies of 615 workers. a tailored package of services will include guidance and counselling, skills assessment, retraining, vocational training and entrepreneurship advice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to support the dismissals of the polish company zachem. according to the data provided by the polish authorities, the eu has lost a significant market share in the chemical industry and its leading position in the global chemicals trade. the trend of recent years has been to shift production to asia, in particular china. the increase in sales in emerging markets in china has led to a rapid increase in the production of chemicals. the level of production in asian countries is also driven by lower labour costs, market access, subsidies, taxes and regulation. the polish company zachem therefore failed to compete and dismissed its employees. moreover, the unemployment rate in this region was the highest in the country and the company zachem was the largest employer in this area. poland's application therefore fully complies with the conditions of the european globalisation adjustment fund and should receive eu support from that fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, because the purpose of the european globalisation adjustment fund is to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. this case of a chemical industry in poland where 615 people have lost their jobs is a consequence of globalisation. the european union has a responsibility to help people in this member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the allocation of funds for the retraining of unemployed people after a polish chemical company, unable to cope with the competition from asian countries, was forced to close down and reorganise its operations in an emergency. the funds are needed to resolve the social problems as quickly as possible and to re-integrate into the labour market up to 615 people of working age who have been made redundant.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. it is essential that the european globalisation adjustment fund is mobilised properly and effectively. i support the proposal in this report to grant financial assistance to a polish company. in particular, it is necessary to eliminate the negative impact on the labour market and to mitigate the negative impact on the dismissed workers. they need to be helped by various means to find a new job and reintegrate into the labour market as quickly as possible. therefore, immediate and urgent support for dismissed people is necessary. the eu must show its full solidarity with the workers made redundant. it is essential that eu countries continue to be given the appropriate opportunities to make effective use of this financial assistance and to implement measures to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to mobilise the egf for germany in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by the company 'aleo solar' which is active in the field of solar energy production. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers had a significant market share in the union market. between 2005 and 2011, the chinese share of revenue increased from 11% to 45%, while the german share decreased from 64% to 21%. the egf is intended to provide a total of eur 1 094 760 for the redundancies of 657 workers. a tailored package of services will include guidance and counselling, skills assessment, retraining, vocational training and entrepreneurship advice.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report to support the redundancies of the german company 'aleo solar'. according to the data provided by the german authorities, aleo solar is only one of many european solar companies that have gone bankrupt, closed down the solar business, stopped production in whole or in part or were sold to chinese investors in the last few years (as of 2010). the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers were not able to comply with the undertaking. in addition, worldwide demand has declined, causing prices to fall. despite various efforts to restructure and increase efficiency, the company was unable to return to profitability and was liquidated, closed and sold its facilities. the european globalisation adjustment fund should support the reintegration of displaced workers into the labour market through measures such as vocational training, career guidance and counselling, peer groups and workshops, entrepreneurship counselling, interregional mobility counselling, job search by a professional jobseeker, follow-up mentoring for workers who have found a new job but who may need counselling to keep it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, because this case in germany fulfils the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation to receive the financial support. redundancies were a consequence of globalisation and the help has to be provided.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the allocation of funds for the retraining of people who lost their jobs after failing to compete with asian countries, one of the largest employers in the prenzlauer-brandenburg region of germany aleo solar ag was forced to reduce its activities significantly. unemployment rates in this region are among the highest in germany. the funds are needed to resolve social problems as quickly as possible and to reintegrate into the labour market up to 657 people of working age who have been made redundant.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to mobilise the egf for germany in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by the company 'aleo solar' which is active in the field of solar energy production. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers had a significant market share in the union market. between 2005 and 2011, the chinese share of revenue increased from 11% to 45%, while the german share decreased from 64% to 21%. the egf is intended to provide a total of eur 1 094 760 for the redundancies of 657 workers. a tailored package of services will include guidance and counselling, skills assessment, retraining, vocational training and entrepreneurship advice.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report to support the 701 workers made redundant by the belgian company 'hainaut steel' and to reintegrate them into the labour market, i.e. to provide them with individual help in finding a job, case management and a common information service, training and retraining and the promotion of entrepreneurship. according to the data provided by the belgian authorities, the raw steel production sector suffered from a major economic shock between 2006 and 2011, in particular a sharp decline in its share of the eu market and in the production of raw steel. in addition, the impact of these changes in the trading system was also reinforced by other factors such as the decreased demand for steel in the automotive and construction sectors in the eu due to the economic crisis and the relative increase in the cost of production (raw materials, energy, environmental restrictions, etc.). these factors have affected the competitiveness of the eu steel industry and have resulted in a large number of job losses in the steel industry in recent years as a number of european steel producers have closed down and restructured. according to the belgian authorities, the measures put in place constitute a package of services adapted to individual needs and are active labour market measures aimed at reintegrating workers into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this support for the steel industry in belgium, which concerns more than 700 workers. this sector has faced globalisation and because of it, production of steel has undergone serious economic disruption, in particular a rapid decline of the eu’s market share.
in writing. ‒ i voted for funding for the retraining of people who have lost their jobs after a metalworks in la louvière, in the province of hainaut, belgium, closed down and another company drastically reduced its workforce, having failed to compete with asian countries. the funds are needed to address social problems as quickly as possible, and to re-train and re-employ up to 708 people of working age who have been made redundant.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to mobilise the egf for the needs of belgium in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by the steel company arcelormittal liège. the steel sector, in which arcelormittal liège s.a. operated, was subject to severe economic shocks, in particular a sharp decline in its share of the eu market. in 2007-2013, the production of raw steel in the eu-27 decreased from 210,1 million tonnes to 166,2 million tonnes. a total of eur 1 591 486 is to be granted from the egf to 752 redundant workers. a tailored package of services will include guidance and counselling, skills assessment, retraining, vocational training and entrepreneurship advice.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report to support the dismissals of the belgian company arcelormittal. according to the information provided by the belgian authorities, the steel sector in which arcelormittal liège s.a. operated was subject to severe economic shocks, in particular a sharp decline in its share of the eu market. the union industry's market share decreased by 8% between 2007 and the investigation period. the decrease in production in europe is significantly higher than in the united states and russia. meanwhile, the asian part has grown very rapidly. the impact of these changes in the trading system was also reinforced by other factors such as the decreased demand for steel in the automotive and construction sectors in the eu due to the economic crisis and the relative increase in the cost of production (raw materials, energy, environmental restrictions, etc.). these factors have affected the competitiveness of the eu steel industry and have resulted in a large number of job losses in the steel industry in recent years as a number of european steel producers have closed down and restructured. the european globalisation adjustment fund should therefore support three main areas: training, retraining and the promotion of entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of supporting 752 workers who have lost their jobs because of the decline in competitiveness of the eu’s steel industry. i strongly support the fact that money from the egf will be spent on redeployment, training and retraining, and promotion of entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the allocation of funds for the retraining of people who have lost their jobs after the belgian steel company arcelormittal liège s.a. laid off 1 285 workers after failing to compete with asian countries. the funds are needed to address social problems as quickly as possible, and to re-skill and re-integrate people of working age into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to mobilise the egf for the belgian needs to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by the steel company 'caterpillar'. caterpillar was severely affected by the declining demand for this type of product in europe, which led to the relocation of huge production capacities to third countries. a total of eur 1 222 854 is to be granted from the egf to 663 redundant workers. a tailored package of services will include guidance and counselling, skills assessment, retraining, vocational training and entrepreneurship advice.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report to support the dismissed workers from the belgian company 'caterpillar' and to help them return to the labour market. caterpillar has been severely affected by the declining demand for this type of product in europe, which has led to the relocation of huge production capacities to third countries. the caterpillar plant in gosselies specialises in the assembly of machinery, components, castings and structures. its products are intended exclusively for the european construction and mining sectors. this situation has led to changes in the plant which are specific to these sectors and has also been affected by fluctuations in raw materials. the fact that caterpillar's plants are located close to their markets may explain the link between the developments in the european and global markets and the reduction in the workforce at the gosselli plant. since 2007, the caterpillar group has established plants in emerging market economies in asia and latin america and its growth is mainly linked to these markets. the european parliament supports the european globalisation adjustment fund to help workers who have been made redundant to reintegrate into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the allocation of funds for the retraining of unemployed people after the reduction in demand in europe led to the dismissal of 1,030 workers from the machinery and equipment manufacturing company caterpillar belgium s.a.. it is expected that 630 people will benefit from the measures financed by the european globalisation adjustment fund, thus addressing the social problems of the charleroi region of belgium, by re-training and re-integrating people of working age into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the directive allowing necessary derogations on the maximum weight and dimensions of heavy goods vehicles which incorporate technology to save energy or improve safety. this way we can keep the balance between undistorted competition, protection of road infrastructure and environmental performance. when it comes to energy saving, environmental protection and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions are among the euʼs priorities. therefore, it is important to increase vehiclesʼ efficiency by enabling the implementation of advanced aerodynamics or heavier powertrains for alternatively fuelled trucks. as far as road safety is concerned, i think that improving road safety is a solid reason to allow potential gains in vehiclesʼ dimensions resulting from additional safety measures such as alternative cabin profiles. nevertheless, we should take into account that such derogations, especially regarding vehicle weight, should be set only after carefully assessing the impact of additional pressure on the euʼs road infrastructure and establishing adequate mechanisms to curb vehicle overload.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which provides for new rules to enable vehicle manufacturers to develop safer and greener trailers. the european parliament and the council of the eu informally agreed on the amendments to the rules governing the specifications of heavy goods vehicles, which have been in force since 1996, in december last year. they provide for a rounded cab shape to increase the driver's field of vision and reduce the risk of serious injury to pedestrians in low-speed collisions. at the same time, the improved aerodynamic characteristics of the trailers will allow for a reduction in fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report in order to adopt a directive which would allow manufacturers to start producing new designs of lorries. such trucks could exceed the current mass and length limits in order to improve the overall safety and environmental performance of heavy goods vehicles. the introduction of more rounded truck cabs would increase the driver's field of vision to detect vulnerable road users such as cyclists and reduce friction, while the curved shape would reduce the impact of collisions. the aerodynamic windshields at the rear of the truck would help to reduce fuel consumption and pollution. in addition, in the case of alternative power drives and/or engines, additional mass (up to 1 tonne) could be allowed without reducing the load capacity of the vehicles. the current rules for larger trucks remain unchanged. member states should take specific measures to identify vehicles likely to exceed the mass limits. the data from the vehicle's on-board weight sensor should also be available to the driver.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of certain road vehicles circulating within the community, the maximum authorised dimensions in national and international traffic and the maximum authorised weights in international traffic, as i believe that those regulations will improve the general safety of vehicles.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation. the proposal for a directive is flexible. moreover, its implementation will improve the safety and environmental performance of heavy goods vehicles without creating a significant additional financial burden for member states and business operators. attention should be drawn to the fact that delays in the adoption of this directive have negative effects on both business and the environment. another important aspect is that member states are given the right to control the weight of trailers not only in one way, by installing weight sensors, but are allowed to implement other technological solutions. in view of this, i consider it appropriate to prohibit a member state from requiring trailers registered in other countries to be fitted with a weight sensor when they cross the territory of that member state. it is important to note that national and international carriers have an interest in taking advantage as soon as possible of the new provisions of the directive governing innovative cabin designs, additional weights as an alternative to wood-powered tractors and the possibilities for more efficient intermodal transport.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which provides for new rules to enable vehicle manufacturers to develop safer and greener trailers. the european parliament and the council of the eu informally agreed on the amendments to the rules governing the specifications of heavy goods vehicles, which have been in force since 1996, in december last year. they provide for a rounded cab shape to increase the driver's field of vision and reduce the risk of serious injury to pedestrians in low-speed collisions. at the same time, the improved aerodynamic characteristics of the trailers will allow for a reduction in fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because long-term financing is a crucial tool for ensuring that european economic growth is sustainable and stable. the europe 2020 strategy provides that high employment and competitiveness help to shape an economy to be less exposed to systemic risk and more resilient. the european long-term investment funds (eltifs) provide financing for a variety of long-term infrastructure projects, non-listed companies or listed small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) issuing equity or debt investment instruments. the main objective of this regulation is therefore to promote long-term european investment in the real economy. long-term investments in projects, businesses and infrastructure in third countries can also provide capital to eltifs and thus benefit the european economy. therefore, such investments should be allowed. european long-term investment funds can provide a stable income stream for pension administrators, insurance companies, funds, municipalities and other entities with continuous and recurring liabilities and seeking long-term returns in well-regulated structures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this because i see it as a crucial tool to put the eu economy on a sustainable growth path again. for me it is really important to see that european long-term investment funds (eltifs) will provide finance for various projects and smes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because long-term finance is a crucial tool for ensuring that europe's economy grows, is smart, competitive and creates jobs more quickly.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. in particular, it is necessary to ensure the effective functioning of the eu's common market for long-term investment instruments. the single market will strengthen europe's competitiveness and stimulate investment to create new jobs. it is worth noting that a stable cross-border mechanism will encourage long-term investment. the european long-term investment funds will ensure long-term and adequate funding. this type of investment will provide greater confidence, protection and choice for investors and businesses. in addition, investors will be encouraged to take on long-term liabilities for assets. another important aspect is that long-term investments bring stable and predictable returns and also provide funds for businesses and contribute to job creation.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to introduce a lower charge for bank cards. the new rules limit the fees charged by banks to businesses for the use of bank cards to settle accounts with customers. these rules aim to increase transparency in the charge applied by banks, which would encourage competition and allow the choice of the most appropriate card-based payment scheme. the new rules will also apply to banks operating in lithuania, which means that card payments in lithuania will be subject to a charge. in lithuania, banks generally charge a tax on business of between 0,8% and 2% of the purchase value, which is usually included in the price of the goods or services. the draft new regulation would limit the interbank charge for credit card payments to 0.3% of the value of the purchase or service. the interchange fee for international debit card payments cannot exceed 0,2%. however, eu countries are allowed to calculate this threshold for another five years, not from the price of the good or service, but from the average annual value of transactions in a separate card scheme. in addition, after the transitional period, a fee of up to eur 5 per transaction will be available for debit card settlements of small amounts.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which aims to adopt a regulation establishing uniform technical and operational requirements for card-based payment transactions in the european union. the use of electronic payments should be encouraged and facilitated for traders and consumers in order to ensure the efficient functioning of the internal market. card and other electronic payments can be used in a more diverse way, including online payment options, to take advantage of the internal market and e-commerce, and electronic payments offer merchants a potentially secure payment option. therefore, the use of card-based payment instead of cash could benefit traders and consumers, provided that the fees for the use of payment systems are set at cost-effective levels, and at the same time contribute to fair competition, innovation and the entry of new entrants.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this directive and see it as the best decision taken by the new european parliament so far. this is essential for smes in europe, especially the ones which are operating in a digital market, to better compete with the global players.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because this regulation lays down the same technical and commercial requirements for card-based payment transactions in the union where both the payer's payment service provider and the payee's payment service provider are located in the union. this will help to reduce the cost of interbank transactions to consumers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to implement measures as soon as possible in order to complete the integration of the payment card market and to remove the obstacles to the effective functioning of the existing card market. the eu must be a level playing field and legal clarity must be ensured. it is therefore necessary to establish uniform technical and commercial requirements for card-based payment transactions in the union. the implementation of the envisaged measures would reduce costs for business operators and price payment service users. another important aspect is to make the payment system more transparent, more reliable, more secure. i think it is appropriate to set a maximum interchange fee for all debit and credit card based payment transactions. the consistent application of competition rules to interchange fees and the regulation of such fees would improve the functioning of the internal market and help to reduce the costs of transactions to consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it is clear that the commission and the national competition authorities have so far failed to tackle the abusive levels of interchange fees. but now the situation should improve somewhat. the good news is that in the near future, debit cards will be subject to a maximum interchange fee of 0.2 percent and credit cards to a maximum of 0.3 percent. prices of goods and services will probably remain the same. on the other hand, a lower tax would have a number of positive aspects. first, the decision is important for small and medium-sized businesses, which, in order not to pay excessive fees, were often unable to offer their customers payment by bank cards. i believe that, once this decision has been adopted, the number of card-based payment facilities will gradually increase. secondly, the reduction in the tax should encourage people to use bank cards more often, which will also help to combat the shadow economy.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to mobilise the egf for the benefit of belgium in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by saint-gobain securitis, a company active in the automotive industry. according to the information provided by the belgian authorities, the automotive stainless glass sector has suffered from severe economic shocks due to several factors, such as the decrease in the production of stainless glass for the automotive industry in the eu, the increase in the market share of competitors from outside the eu and the increase in imports of these products into the european union. a total of eur 1 339 928 is to be granted from the egf to 257 redundant workers. a tailored package of services will include guidance and counselling, skills assessment, retraining, vocational training and entrepreneurship advice.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report to support the dismissals of the belgian company 'the saint-gobain securitisation' because it had become unprofitable. according to the information provided by the belgian authorities, the automotive stainless glass sector has suffered from severe economic shocks due to several factors, such as the decrease in the production of stainless glass for the automotive industry in the eu, the increase in the market share of competitors from outside the eu and the increase in imports of these products into the european union. the activities of sgs benelux were closely linked to the production trends in the automotive industry, which declined in the period 2007-2012. in addition, a general trend was observed for automotive manufacturers and suppliers to shift production from one eu country to another, i.e. from western europe (in particular france, belgium and spain) to eastern europe. the european parliament therefore agrees with the commission that this application meets the criteria of the european globalisation adjustment fund and that belgium is therefore entitled to financial assistance to help redundant workers find employment, contribute to their training, help them find work and provide career guidance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of supporting 257 workers who have lost their jobs because of the general trend by manufacturers and suppliers in the automotive industry to transfer production within the eu, from western europe to eastern europe. i agree that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) has to help these redundant workers to reintegrate into labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the provision of funds to re-train and re-employ people who have lost their jobs after the automotive stainless glass sector in belgium suffered a major economic shock and one of the saint-gobain securite (sgs) group companies, which produced this glass, was forced to lay off 257 workers. the dismissals from the sgs concern mainly production line workers (83% of such workers have the status of worker), and in order to address emerging social problems as quickly as possible and in the light of the labour market situation in the affected area, these dismissed workers are expected to undergo retraining to enable them to find work in other professions and/or in other sectors. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to assess progress in the european union on gender equality the 2013 the resolution highlights the consequences of gender inequality: violence against women, wage disparities and unequal career opportunities. according to the commission, as many as 22% of older women and 35.5% of single parents in the eu are at risk of poverty. although the employment rate for women has risen slightly since 2002, it has been affected by the crisis. in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, the eu must not only achieve a 75% employment rate, but also improve the quality of work. if gender equality existed in the labour market, eu gdp could increase by up to 12%. the cost of care services remains a major barrier to women's employment. it is therefore necessary for member states to establish accessible and high-quality care services that are available on a full-time basis. the fight against violence against women is also very important. i agree with the suggestions that, in particular, it is necessary to collect comparable data on violence against women in all member states, and the work of the european institute for gender equality is crucial in this regard.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because equality between women and men is still a challenge in the european union, and there are still problems with lower wages and pensions for women, discrimination against women in the labour market, women's participation in decision-making and politics, and violence against women. the european union is making progress on gender equality, but it is too slow. according to the european parliament's rapporteur, if we continue at this rate, we will not have closed the gender pay gap by 2084. the increase in female employment is very small, for example from 60% to 63% over a five-year period, but it is not enough. therefore, more attention needs to be paid to female employment and job quality, as more and more women are working part-time or on temporary contracts. as a result, women receive lower pensions later in life and suffer poverty and social exclusion. the fight against violence against women is a key priority, and i therefore ask the commission, together with other members of parliament, to declare a european year dedicated to this problem. this would help to draw the attention of the member states and our citizens, who are not always willing to speak out about this in our society. it is also necessary to ratify the istanbul convention on violence against women.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the progress on equality between women and men in the eu. one of the europe 2020 goals is to reach 75 % employment and without the progress in this sphere, this goal will not be reached. since 2002 female employment increased only by 4.7 % (62.8 %). if no extra effort is put in, this number will not increase.
in writing. gender equality must be given a high priority in the eu. the 2013 progress report on gender equality in the european union is of a high level of detail and quality and reflects the most pressing issues in this field. however, the implementation of the provisions on gender-based violence through the establishment of a european observatory on gender violence at the european institute for gender equality raises doubts about the lack of financial and human resources. this would be a new task for the institute and therefore additional funding should be provided. another important aspect is the right of women to terminate their pregnancies. questions are raised about whether the official legalization of abortion is compatible with a value system that gives priority to life. after all, human life is protected from the start. so when it comes to abortion, we must weigh both sides of the coin: a woman's freedom of choice and decision on the one hand, and the life of the unborn human being, his right to life, on the other. however, in all cases, measures must be taken both within the eu and in the individual member states to ensure the protection of the right to life as effectively as possible.
in writing. ‒ i believe the report provides a constructive and balanced overview of the european unionʼs competition policy. the european unionʼs free and fair competition policy favouring the interests of consumers and sme’s and a climate of innovative competitiveness is one of the main prerequisites needed to boost the european union’s importance worldwide and an essential tool to overcome the ongoing economic crisis, create quality employment and regain economic growth. competition policy is a vital part of the digital single market and the energy union’s projects. i am glad that the rapporteur stressed in his report the importance of an inter-institutional dialogue between eu institutions and the role of parliament as a forum representing the interests of eu consumers and other stakeholders. parliament should be a contributor in shaping policies for a digital single market, the energy sector, transport and financial services. in addition, i remain convinced that it is equally important to ensure that market power is not being abused. we must make sure those mechanisms in charge of the enforcement of already existing rules, public procurement and monitoring of public procurement purchasing procedures and member states’ tax ruling practices. these measures are most vital to ensure easy market access and steady income flow to states’ and the eu’s budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to assess the annual report on eu competition policy. it is important that the commission commits itself to ensuring the impartial enforcement of eu competition rules, to respecting the principle of subsidiarity and to respecting national courts' decisions in competition policy, to combating cartels, to investigating the activities of companies in a monopoly or dominant position in order to prevent them from abusing their market power, and to cooperating closely with other public authorities in third countries and international organisations in order to investigate cases of suspected unlawful use of tax incentives. i support the proposal to include all these commitments in the commission's strategic priorities for the next five years. it is also important that the ep has more influence in shaping union policy in the areas of the digital single market, the energy sector, financial services, industry and transport.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because competition policy and competitiveness in general are of vital importance to the state of the union as a whole and its success, and therefore to its citizens. only by fostering a spirit of innovation and competitiveness can we finally put an end to the financial crisis. an effective competition policy can preserve and enhance the eu's global standing. the renewed political mandate of the european parliament must put competitiveness at the top of our political agenda. eu competition policy has been highly effective in improving consumer welfare and remains a key instrument in removing barriers to the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital. the european parliament would like to take this fact to heart and considers that competition policy remains an essential instrument for preserving the single market and protecting consumers' interests. it is therefore necessary to assess current competition policy initiatives, which should be followed by new proposals or amendments to the current rules to address the problems we face.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu competition policy report. i strongly support the view of the rapporteur that competition policy and competitiveness in general is of vital importance to the health and success of the eu as a whole and therefore its citizens. member states cannot compete with each other, we have to become a strong single market and compete with the rest of the world.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the application of competition law principles is in the interests of the consumer first and foremost. it is also estimated that tax evasion, tax fraud and tax havens cost eu taxpayers €1 billion in lost revenue each year and have distorted competition between companies that pay taxes and those that do not in the single market. in this area, it is therefore essential that the commission ensure that competition rules are enforced and that effective measures are taken to combat monopolies and cartels.
in writing. i agree with the reports submitted. competition policy must be based on a level playing field in all sectors. it is the foundation of a european social market economy and a crucial tool for ensuring the sustainable functioning of the eu market, promoting economic growth and job creation. i believe that the commission should take a more active approach in its action in the global context and link the union's competition policy in europe with the call to open up procurement markets outside the eu. it is essential that a competition chapter be included in the transatlantic trade and investment partnership agreement. in addition, measures to ensure fair competition and better quality of service in the railway sector and in the management of port and airport networks are needed across the eu. i think it would be appropriate to assess the combined effect of corporate tax and state aid.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to evaluate the 2013 annual report of the european central bank. the eu unemployment rate reached a high point in 2013 and the overall economic situation in the eu remains very difficult. the unemployment rate increased from 11,3% at the end of 2012 to 12,1% at the end of 2013. despite fiscal consolidation reforms in member states aimed at increasing investor confidence, there has been no change in growth or employment. it is worrying that the social situation in the crisis-hit countries has deteriorated significantly. i support the proposals to enable member states to boost public and private investment, to carry out the appropriate structural reforms to restore a business-friendly environment. i believe that the implementation of the €300 billion investment stimulus package proposed by european commission president juncker would make a significant contribution to the ecb's policy efforts to boost employment and growth in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted on this report, in which the european parliament gave its assessment of the annual report of the european central bank. the european parliament welcomes the rapid reaction of the european central bank in the context of extremely difficult economic and financial circumstances and the fact that monetary policy has been aimed at reducing the level of tension in the euro area financial markets and restoring investor confidence in the single currency. parliament also welcomed the work of the european central bank in its readiness to do whatever was necessary to preserve the euro and the euro area. the european central bank's lending to european banks should be expected to benefit the real economy and investing firms by creating stable and quality jobs and supporting the transition to a greener economy. the european parliament considers monetary policy to be an important driver of the european union's economy and the european central bank should use it to provide liquidity to the eu's real economy, to increase demand, to promote quality investment and to create sustainable jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report in which the european parliament assesses the annual report of the european central bank and makes specific proposals in the field of monetary policy and financial stability. these measures should help to maintain a strong and stable eu currency, the euro, prevent distortions of business conditions and the devaluation of private savings and pensions, facilitate the recovery of public and private investment in the euro area and address the long-term problems faced by small and medium-sized enterprises in obtaining credit.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the annual report 2013 of the european central bank. in particular, it is essential to ensure that monetary policy is an effective instrument to reduce the level of stress in the euro area financial markets and to restore investor confidence in the single currency. the monetary policy transmission mechanism and the euro area interbank lending market must operate smoothly and without any obstacles. it is necessary to improve the conditions for the recovery of public and private investment in the euro area. it should be noted that the european banking system remains vulnerable. i believe that it would be appropriate to adopt european union legislation to separate the more risky investment activities from traditional banking. it should be noted that only a properly regulated capital markets union can reduce the excessive dependence of the euro area economies on the banking system. i also believe that technical and legislative work on the risks associated with public debt should be accelerated.
i want to congratulate my colleague on the preparation of this report. i was rapporteur for the report on the protection of the european union's financial interests in 2010, so i am familiar with the subject. in 2013, the european union lost €2 billion to fraud and irregularities, with only 24% of the funds lost to fraud and 70% of the funds lost to irregularities recovered from the member states. there is no doubt that much greater attention must be paid to the establishment of principles of control and fair use of european union funds in the european union countries. in addition, one of the main problems, which persists year after year, is that member states have not provided comprehensive and comparable data on irregularities and fraud. there is no clear framework for how member states implement the recommendations of olaf investigations and no provision for sanctions for non-compliance. this situation must not be tolerated and i reiterate my call for the commission to take responsibility.
for the efdd group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the ebola epidemic is a major threat to the world, it is a threat to the people of our countries. we must take all measures to ensure that the citizens of the world and our countries feel safe. three aspects that we must pay particular attention to. the first is the appropriateness of the allocation of funds to combat ebola. i think we need to ensure that financial support is also given to those countries that are closest to the european union's borders and to the epicentre of the epidemic. secondly, the appropriateness of the use of the funds allocated to the fight against ebola. first, let's list the water supply, the water supply, the sewer, the toilets, the other basic sanitation facilities. let's not waste money on anything. only our collective efforts, with the right priorities, will guarantee our success in fighting the epidemic.
madam president, whenever we talk about eu partner states we cannot avoid mentioning that countries have to choose between liberal democracy or an authoritarian anti—liberal regime. there is a clear divide between the value system of europe, which is based on international law and obligations based on democratic values, and the other system, which is currently ruining the european post—war peace order. i personally do not believe that it is possible to choose more than one system and to follow more than one road. serbia still raises a lot of questions about which path it chooses to be on. the decision not to support eu sanctions on russia is more than just a pragmatic choice, it is a statement. at this moment, eastern partnership countries like ukraine are showing more political will and eagerness to be closer to the eu than those countries which consider themselves to be on the eu’s doorstep. therefore, i urge the serbian government clearly to decide which road it wants to take, since it is not possible to have it both ways.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, three weeks ago the european commission made a solemn announcement on the creation of the energy union. it is as if it marks another step towards further federalisation of the european union. the single currency, the single market, the single energy system - all of these are components of the european union, which have both advantages and disadvantages when it comes to the autonomy of the states and the well-being of their citizens. in this case, the total energy is the big plus that the countries of the european union have long needed. indeed, individual countries are not capable of ensuring energy independence and the supply of resources at the best prices. the european union is doing very well to speak with one voice on this issue. and it's not just energy that we need unity for today, but peace. but i am concerned that the funds for the creation of the energy infrastructure in the union are too small compared to the ambitions. goods on the market are usually either cheap or good. a good energy union, gentlemen, is not going to come cheap. (the president agreed to answer the question after the blue card had been raised (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to the question posed by the blue card. thank you very much for asking. as regards federalist ambitions or objectives, i want to emphasize that i am speaking clearly, concretely, precisely about a union of free european states, and where it is possible to do so without pursuing a federalist or other approach, it should be done.
mr president, i support the report on single market governance, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work. however, we do have to admit that the eu single market is not fulfilling its full potential. it has to be better monitored if we want to promote growth and jobs. it is very important to develop analytical tools to properly measure the economic and regulatory performance of the single market. i think that it is very important that the european semester and the country—specific recommendations reflect the priority sectors in the eu where there is strong potential for growth: first of all, a digital single market, which could generate thousands of jobs; free movement of goods and services, public procurement; ect. this morning, the president said that the commission has fast—tracked the reports on the country—specific recommendations. now member states have more time to examine those recommendations. i welcome that. the most important thing is for member states to better implement eu legislation and international law and commit to structural reforms which are now working. it is time; it is the only way forward.
in writing. the european economic growth forecast for this year suggests that unemployment will remain high. this shows that a major structural reform in the economic and social spheres is still a long way off. i support the investment plan presented by the president of the commission, but it should not be seen as an alternative to the necessary reforms, but as a complementary instrument to allow funds to be allocated to projects with a european and economic and social return. the single energy market needs to be accelerated and eu countries' energy independence promoted. the creation of an energy union is very important. it would make member states more competitive and more resilient to political pressure from third parties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal on common rules for imports from certain third countries. the purpose of the proposal is to codify existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on common rules for imports from certain third countries. the commission proposal for a regulation lays down safeguard and surveillance measures which may be applied to imports of products, including coal and steel, but excluding textile products covered by a separate regulation. the regulation applies only to a limited number of countries, namely azerbaijan, belarus, kazakhstan, north korea, turkmenistan and uzbekistan. the safeguard measure is rarely used in practice and, as regards surveillance, the last safeguard measure was for steel products and expired on 31 december 2012. a substantial change in the new version of the regulation concerns the update of the annex by deleting the countries which have now become members of the world trade organisation armenia, russia, tajikistan and vietnam.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the main changes to common rules for imports from certain third countries. mainly technical changes were made regarding the countries that have become members of the world trade organisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a stabilisation and association agreement with montenegro. the purpose of the proposal is to codify existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on the codification of the rules of the stabilisation and association agreement with the republic of montenegro. the commission attaches great importance to simplifying and clarifying european union law, so that it is more understandable and accessible to citizens, who will be able to take advantage of new opportunities and of the specific rights conferred on them. this objective will not be achieved if many provisions which have been amended several times, in part and often substantially, remain scattered among the various acts and therefore have to be sought in part in the original act and in part in subsequent amending acts. therefore, to find the rules in force at a given moment, it is necessary to carry out a study by comparing different legal acts. for this reason, it is important to codify the rules, which have been frequently amended, in order to ensure that the law is clear and transparent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a union tariff quota for high-quality beef, as well as for pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and meslin and for herring, mackerel and other residues. the purpose of the proposal is to codify existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which supports the proposal to codify council regulation (ec) no 774/94 of 29 march 1994 on quotas and administration for high-quality beef and veal, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and meslin and rye. this council regulation lays down certain community tariff quotas for high-quality beef and for pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and meslin and for herring, mackerel and other residues and provides for the administration of such quotas. the new regulation will replace the various acts whose provisions were incorporated in it; this proposal does not change the content of the acts to be codified, as it merely combines these acts, making the necessary changes in form for codification.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal on the import of agricultural products from turkey into the european union. the purpose of the proposal is to codify existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which, for reasons of clarity and rationality, proposes to codify council regulation (ec) no 779/98 of 7 april 1998 on the import into the european union of agricultural products originating in turkey. it should be noted that the decision of the association council between the european community and turkey provides for a system of preferences applicable to imports into the european union of agricultural products originating in turkey. in addition, where an approximate price is fixed for fishery products, the preferential tariff must be applied in the light of that price.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to suspend certain preferences for agricultural products originating in turkey imported into the european union. the purpose of the proposal is to codify existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which proposes to codify council regulation (ec) no 1506/98 of 13 july 1998 for reasons of clarity and rationality. this regulation establishes a community tariff quota for turkey as a preferential tariff quota for hazelnuts and suspends other preferences. the decision of the association council between the european community and turkey provides for the improvement and strengthening of trade preferences for imports into the european union of agricultural products originating in turkey. in addition, preferential arrangements should be established for exports of meat and live animals from the european union to turkey.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to amend the agreement establishing the common fisheries commission for the mediterranean (cfp). the agreement is amended in order to clarify the objectives and functions of the jccc and to increase its effectiveness. the new agreement sets a clear objective: the biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of living marine resources. the functions of the cfp are also better defined: to promote common fisheries management through multiannual management plans, to define restricted fishing areas and to collect and disseminate data. the agreement includes provisions on sanctions for non-compliance by members and non-members. in addition, a specifically defined dispute settlement mechanism is in place to be used in the event of a dispute between the contracting parties.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on the extension of the powers and responsibilities of the joint fisheries commission for the mediterranean. the common fisheries policy for the mediterranean (cfp) is a so-called regional fisheries management organisation whose purpose is to promote the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources and the sustainable development of mediterranean and black sea aquaculture. in order to improve the functioning of the panel, it was decided to define the functions of the ohim more precisely, to establish a specific dispute settlement mechanism and to provide for sanctions for non-compliance. the new agreement sets a clear common objective: the biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of living marine resources. the european parliament, taking into account the mutual interest in the development and proper exploitation of the living resources of the mediterranean and the black sea, endorses the new agreement on the common fisheries commission for the mediterranean.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the new agreement for the establishment of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. it sets a clear overall objective of biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of living marine resources and new definitions that makes this easier to interpret.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the deputy prosecutor of the supreme court of the hellenic republic has requested the waiver of the immunity of the member of the european parliament, mr theodoros zagorakis, with a view to taking possible legal action in respect of alleged criminal activity. this member is charged with negligent bodily injury and failure to comply with safety regulations in the workplace. this alleged offence clearly has no connection with his office as a member of the european parliament, but it is linked to his duties as president of the football club paok. moreover, there is no reason to believe that the proceedings are intended to prejudice the activities of a member of the european parliament (fumus persecutionis), given that the criminal prosecution was initiated several years before the member of the european parliament took office. this parliament decision will be forwarded to the office of the prosecutor of the hellenic supreme court.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because the prosecutor general of the republic of bulgaria has forwarded the request of the prosecutor's office of the city of sofia to allow the continuation of the criminal proceedings initiated against mr sergei stanishev, member of the european parliament. it is alleged that this member lost seven documents containing classified information which, under the bulgarian law on the protection of classified information ('lia') is a state secret, while acting as prime minister of the republic of bulgaria. in particular, mr stanishev is suspected of having transmitted these documents in breach of the rules laid down, as the transmission of documents was not duly registered in the register of classified information of the council of ministers. therefore, the accused claim that s. stanishev failed to strictly comply with the procedures for the storage, transmission and distribution of documents laid down in the iac law and its implementing rules and the internal rules of the council of ministers on the handling of classified information. the european parliament shall apply its own consistent principles in order to decide whether or not to waive the immunity of a member. one of the following: immunity is normally waived where the offence is not related to the duties of a member of parliament, unless there is evidence of fumus persecutionis, i.e. a sufficiently serious and clear suspicion that the member concerned is being prosecuted with the aim of damaging his political reputation.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to define the commission's 2016 budgetary guidelines. the budgetary guidelines are the first document the ep presents during the annual budgetary procedure and set out the guidelines it expects the commission to adopt when preparing the budget proposal. the multiannual financial framework for 2016 provides for eur 150,217 billion, which is necessary to address the priority issues. it is important that the eu budget and commission president juncker's investment plan contribute to the promotion of 20 million small and medium-sized enterprises in the eu and the creation of new start-ups. i agree that the commission should identify the reasons for the slow implementation of the european youth initiative and ensure that it is funded beyond 2015. all member states must show solidarity and contribute to the provision of urgent humanitarian assistance and support in ukraine and elsewhere. it is also important that the commission presents as soon as possible a plan to reduce the growing backlog of payments, which has reached an unprecedented amount of eur 24.7 billion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the european union budget is crucial for creating jobs and developing enterprises and promoting entrepreneurship for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth across the eu. it should be noted that the eu budget is an important contribution to economic, social and territorial cohesion by supporting research and technological development, and is also important for the restructuring of the energy sector and the connection of energy networks. the eu budget supports eu programmes, including the 'horizon 2020' programme, the 'competitiveness and small and medium-sized enterprises' programme (cosme), 'erasmus+' and the 'youth employment initiative', which directly contribute to job creation and employment. the european parliament therefore expects the commission to give a high priority to such growth-oriented programmes and measures in the 2016 draft budget in order to ensure that they are adequately resourced.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2016 budget. i do support all four focuses: (1) employment, enterprise and entrepreneurship for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth; (2) the investment plan; (3) internal and external solidarity; (4) respecting commitments. if the european union ensures all the goals mentioned above, the economy will grow sustainably.
in writing. i think the eu's austerity policy should be relaxed. in particular, member states must be allowed to choose the policy which is most appropriate to address the problems at hand. the commission should not be given even more powers in respect of control of national budgets. the policy decisions taken must ensure that member states benefit and not, on the contrary, undermine the availability or quality of their social services and benefits. it is necessary to ensure that structural fund support is directed to those countries which really need it. another important aspect is that the european union is severely underfunded, both at national and eu level, and that this may cause problems in the implementation of some programmes. in this context, all programmes and expenditure should be carefully analysed in terms of feasibility, productivity and efficiency. we cannot reduce funding for science and innovation.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to protect the eu's financial interests and to fight fraud. i was rapporteur for the 2010 report on the protection of the eu's financial interests, so this issue is of great relevance to me. in 2013, the eu lost around eur 2 billion to fraud and irregularities, while only 24% of the funds lost to fraud and 70% of the funds lost to irregularities are recovered from the member states. there is no clear system for showing how member states implement the recommendations of olaf's fraud investigations and no sanctions for non-compliance. this situation cannot be tolerated and i call on the commission to take full responsibility for the recovery of funds wrongly paid. as i have mentioned on many occasions, another important problem remains that member states receive large amounts of eu funds but are not obliged to provide detailed and comparable data on the infringements committed using them. it is therefore necessary for the commission to harmonise the principles for reporting fraud cases.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the protection of the financial interests of the european union, combined with the principle of sound financial management, should guarantee that budget revenue and expenditure contribute to the achievement of the eu's priorities and objectives and to the enhancement of citizens' confidence. it is vital to assure our citizens that their money is used in a transparent way, in full compliance with eu objectives and policies and in the interests of eu citizens. the fight against corruption therefore requires effective action, and the fight must be conducted through possible criminal law instruments and other complementary measures, such as increased transparency and accountability. it is therefore important that member states demonstrate strong political will to fight corruption effectively at national and eu level by adopting effective anti-corruption legislation and continuing work on existing proposals at eu level. the european parliament also calls on all member states to set up their own anti-fraud coordination services, to give them tangible powers and to allocate sufficient human and financial resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the protection of the eu’s financial interests – fight against fraud. i do believe that the fight against fraud, corruption and money laundering in the union must be a priority in order to ensure a sustainable, solid and wealthy society.
in writing. i agree with the reports submitted. it is noteworthy that some of the projects financed by the eib have been linked to corruption and fraud. this cannot happen again in the future, and such unfair and illegal actions must be prevented. the financing shall be transparent and equitable. in cases of fraud and corruption, the european investment bank should suspend or block any planned or ongoing financing of the project concerned. in addition, the implementation of projects proposed by member states relating to the structural funds needs to be assessed through advanced performance audits. i believe that a stop-and-go policy is an effective means of preventing fraud and misuse of eu funds. in view of these aspects, the commission should report on the effective contribution of suspension and withdrawal to reducing the number of irregularities and errors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to evaluate the 2014 progress report of montenegro. albania, bosnia and herzegovina, montenegro, kosovo, the former yugoslav republic and serbia are the six western balkan countries that are candidates for eu membership. two of these candidates - montenegro and serbia - are already negotiating eu membership. albania and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia have official candidate status, while bosnia and herzegovina and kosovo are considered potential candidates. all these candidates have made different progress towards eu membership, lagging behind eu members on many indicators. the main problems are high unemployment, corruption and restrictions on freedom of the press.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament assesses the 2014 progress report of montenegro. parliament welcomed the progress made by montenegro in the reforms aimed at ensuring the independence and efficiency of the judiciary, but called for substantial reforms in the areas of appointment, promotion and disciplinary procedures for judges and prosecutors. the lack of progress in the fight against corruption is a cause for concern, which, despite the significant financial resources allocated to public authorities by international donors, continues to threaten the proper functioning and stability of democratic institutions, the rule of law and economic development. the european parliament also stresses the need to improve consultation with civil society organisations in order to increase transparency in policy-making and legislation and to ensure the openness of these processes. it is also necessary to underline that progress in the areas of women's rights, gender equality, the proportion of women in politics and the labour market and the fight against domestic violence remains limited. progress in the areas of women's rights, gender equality, women's participation in politics and the labour market and the fight against domestic violence is therefore urgently needed.
in writing. i agree with the progress report presented by montenegro. each developing country must have a clear european perspective. progress towards membership depends on the steps taken by each country to meet the established criteria based on the principle of merit. progress towards membership is welcome, but all efforts must continue to be made to implement reforms effectively. a fundamental review and strengthening of economic governance and sustainable economic reforms are needed. particular attention should be paid to reforms related to the rule of law, as this is an essential element of the european integration process. it is therefore essential to strengthen democratic institutions and ensure inclusive democratic processes in order to implement the basic democratic principles and shared eu values. it should be noted that progress has been made in the implementation of reforms aimed at ensuring the independence and greater efficiency of the judiciary. the mechanisms for consulting civil society organisations have also been improved. however, the problem of impunity in war crimes cases still remains. moreover, corruption also remains a major problem requiring more effective solutions.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to assess the 2014 progress report of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. albania, bosnia and herzegovina, montenegro, kosovo, the former yugoslav republic and serbia are the six western balkan countries that are candidates for eu membership. two of these candidates - montenegro and serbia - are already negotiating membership of the european union. albania and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia have official candidate status, while bosnia and herzegovina and kosovo are considered potential candidates. all these candidates have made different progress towards eu membership, lagging behind eu members on many indicators. the main problems are high unemployment, corruption and restrictions on freedom of the press.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution in which the european parliament assesses the 2014 progress report of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. parliament believes that the authorities and civil society should take appropriate measures to achieve historical reconciliation in order to eliminate the inter- and internal segregation of the different ethnic and national groups, including the bulgarian nationals. welcomes, however, the fact that a legal and institutional framework to combat organised crime is already in place and that a number of successful police operations have been carried out against organised crime groups, in particular in disrupting international drug trafficking and the smuggling of migrants. but they still regret that there is not enough cooperation with civil society organisations and public stakeholders in the development of legislation. such cooperation should be based on a genuine willingness of the government to consult a wide range of stakeholders both in the legislative and policy-making processes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to evaluate the 2014 progress report of serbia. albania, bosnia and herzegovina, montenegro, kosovo, the former yugoslav republic and serbia are the six western balkan countries that are candidates for eu membership. two of these candidates - montenegro and serbia - are already negotiating membership of the european union. albania and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia have official candidate status, while bosnia and herzegovina and kosovo are considered potential candidates. all these candidates have made different progress towards eu membership, lagging behind eu members on many indicators. the main problems are high unemployment, corruption and restrictions on freedom of the press.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution in which the european parliament assesses serbia's 2014 progress report. the european parliament welcomes the commitment shown by the serbian government to the european integration process and calls on serbia to undertake systemic, social and economic reforms with determination and without reservations. it should be emphasised that the careful implementation of legislation and policies remains a key indicator of a successful integration process and that serbia should therefore improve the planning, coordination and monitoring of the implementation of new legislation and policies. parliament stressed that serbia had ratified the main conventions of the international labour organisation on labour rights, including the revised european social charter. however, despite constitutional guarantees, labour and trade union rights are still limited and serbia should continue to strengthen these rights. the european parliament also calls on the serbian authorities to undertake structural economic reforms throughout the country in order to promote economic growth, improve the business and investment environment, ensure balanced social and economic development in all regions, combat high unemployment and poverty, implement fiscal consolidation and combat corruption, which remains the main threat to the business environment.
in writing. i agree with the progress report submitted by serbia. it is very important that the country strictly adheres to the rules of the democratic game. eu enlargement should be based on a concerted policy. european integration is a continuous and dynamic process. it is therefore essential that it reflects the overall changes taking place in the eu. it is to be welcomed that serbia has made clear progress towards fulfilling the conditions of the stabilisation and association process. however, it is essential that systemic, social and economic reforms continue with determination and without compromise. in particular, structural economic reforms are needed to boost economic growth and improve the business and investment environment. the legal framework must also be strengthened, ensuring uniform compliance with the law. serbia needs to accelerate its progress in the energy sector. in this context, it is essential that the commission supports the efforts of the serbian government to reduce the country's dependence on imported energy and to increase the diversity of energy resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to assess the process of kosovo's european integration in 2014. albania, bosnia and herzegovina, montenegro, kosovo, the former yugoslav republic and serbia are the six western balkan countries that are candidates for eu membership. two of these candidates - montenegro and serbia - are already negotiating membership of the european union. albania and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia have official candidate status, while bosnia and herzegovina and kosovo are considered potential candidates. all these candidates have made different progress towards eu membership, lagging behind eu members on many indicators. the main problems are high unemployment, corruption and restrictions on freedom of the press.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which discusses the process of kosovo's european integration. despite some progress, kosovo still faces difficulties in implementing legislation on the protection of ethnic minorities and cultural rights. in this area, therefore, a sustained effort is needed to amend the law to include a provision on the rights of national minorities in order to avoid direct and indirect discrimination. the european parliament is concerned about the high level of unemployment, especially among young people, and about discrimination on the labour market based on gender. it should be noted that progress on property rights remains slow and is detrimental to long-term economic growth. parliament considered that kosovo's accession to international and regional organisations and mechanisms should be a priority and therefore called for the strengthening of relations with and representation of kosovo in regional organisations, international agencies and bodies such as the council of europe, as well as cultural and heritage institutions, with full membership. it is also important to improve its representation in european and international media organisations so that kosovo artists can participate in all international cultural events.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. progress in transposing eu standards is an essential criterion for assessing the candidate's readiness to open formal membership negotiations. the eu has also been active in the fight against corruption and organised crime, and has been active in the fight against organised crime. every state must respect the principles of human rights, freedom, democracy and the rule of law. however, despite some progress, the kosovo authorities should make greater efforts to combat unemployment systematically and effectively, and to promote structural economic reforms and sustainable development by establishing a regulatory framework and incentives for small and medium-sized enterprises, in addition, urgent action is needed to combat criminal gangs and high levels of corruption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a european semester for the coordination of economic policies: employment and social aspects. the forecasts for economic growth in europe this year suggest that unemployment will remain high, indicating that a major structural reform in the economic and social spheres is still a long way off. i support the investment plan presented by the president of the commission, but it should not be seen as an alternative to the necessary reforms, but as a complementary instrument to allow funds to be allocated to projects with a european and economic and social return. the single energy market needs to be accelerated and eu countries' energy independence promoted. the creation of an energy union is essential to make member states more competitive and more resilient to political pressure from third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls for reforms to create a new business environment that encourages new business, new investment and innovation, and that ensures a return on investment, which is a key factor in attracting financial capital to the european economy. moreover, the financing of investments requires a well-functioning financial system, where increased stability and existing cross-border institutions can facilitate liquidity and market formation, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises. the european parliament welcomes the investment plan for europe as an important instrument to boost private and public investment. it should be noted that the plan aims to stimulate additional investment, develop new projects, attract investors and restore the confidence of our citizens in europe. in this context, parliament called for the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) to be used in such a way that it is allocated to projects that provide economic returns or have a positive social cost-benefit ratio. the european parliament therefore calls on the member states to actively support the investment plan and contribute to the esif to complement the eu budget and eib funding in order to encourage and encourage private sector investment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european semester for economic policy coordination: annual growth survey 2015. i do believe that country-specific recommendations are very helpful; and it is a shame that member states are barely implementing them (only 9% were fully implemented in 2013). i call for increased involvement of national parliaments, with a view to strengthening national ownership of structural reforms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the european semester process ensures that member states' budgetary and economic policies are in line with their obligations to the eu (to meet the debt and deficit commitments under the stability and growth pact, the economic reform plans outlined in the 2014 country-specific recommendations and the long-term growth and job creation targets set out in the europe 2020 strategy). the commission's proposed integrated approach to economic policy is based on three main pillars: stimulating investment, accelerating structural reforms and pursuing responsible and growth-friendly fiscal consolidation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. it should be noted that the euro area is still not out of the exceptionally long recession, although recovery is visible, but it is still very fragile and should be strengthened. in particular, the european semester needs to be improved, existing procedures streamlined and national responsibilities increased. the three-pillar approach must be effectively implemented. investments are needed, structural reforms need to be accelerated and fiscal consolidation needs to be pursued in a responsible and growth-friendly manner. the need to increase innovation-driven efficiency should lead member states to reduce current costs rather than investment commitments. it is worth noting that a significant number of countries still need structural reforms. in this context, more attention should be paid to the social and employment impact of reforms. increasing inequality, declining purchasing power, high long-term unemployment and youth unemployment remain among the major problems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a european semester for the coordination of economic policies. the forecasts for economic growth in europe this year suggest that unemployment will remain high. this shows that a major structural reform in the economic and social spheres is still a long way off. i support the investment plan presented by the president of the commission, but it should not be seen as an alternative to the necessary reforms, but as a complementary instrument to allow funds to be allocated to projects with a european and economic and social return. the single energy market needs to be accelerated and eu countries' energy independence promoted. the creation of an energy union is essential to make member states more competitive and more resilient to political pressure from third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the european union needs to continue to improve its economic and social policies in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, while avoiding long-term congestion and deflation. it is important to note that the european investment plan is essential to complement efforts to promote sustainable economic growth and job creation and that it needs to be supported by private and public resources in order to be successful. moreover, small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are the basis for job creation in the european union. the european parliament welcomes the new commission recommendations on access to finance for smes, which include a new approach to insolvency and business failure. the commission's call in the 2015 annual growth survey for member states to protect or promote long-term investment in education, research and innovation should also be welcomed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. i believe that the employment and social aspects should be given more weight in the annual growth review. in particular, it is necessary to define how the social dimension will be reflected in the investment plan and in the exercise of fiscal responsibility. employment and social aspects should be included in ambitious economic policy measures to promote smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and better sustainable jobs. future investments should be assessed not only from an economic but also from a social point of view. it is necessary to ensure that the most vulnerable members of society are given access to the labour market and to adequate income throughout the eu. in this context, i believe that the commission should take more active action to ensure greater social convergence between member states and to achieve poverty reduction targets. common minimum wage standards must be applied in the eu and an eu minimum wage policy must be established. in addition, better involvement of the social partners and civil society is necessary to improve the quality of jobs and ensure sustainable inclusion in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2015. the forecasts for economic growth in europe this year suggest that unemployment will remain high. this shows that a major structural reform in the economic and social spheres is still a long way off. i support the investment plan presented by the president of the commission, but it should not be seen as an alternative to the necessary reforms, but as a complementary instrument to allow funds to be allocated to projects with a european and economic and social return. the single energy market needs to be accelerated and eu countries' energy independence promoted. the creation of an energy union is essential to make member states more competitive and more resilient to political pressure from third countries.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because a well-functioning and efficient single market based on a sustainable, highly innovative and competitive social market economy is needed to revive europe's economy, to boost sustainable growth and competitiveness, to attract investment, to promote social cohesion and to create new jobs. a stronger and fairer internal market with a stronger industrial base is a key priority in the commission's 2015 work programme and the member states and the european union should therefore work together to develop an eu industrial policy, building on the work already done in recent years in this area. in its report, the european parliament calls on the commission, the member states, the regions and relevant stakeholders to focus on the real economy in the design and development of investment policies that will in turn attract private investment. it also calls for investment in preparing people and businesses for the digital age, including the latest technologies in the energy sector, as this is the only way to ensure a global digital network, supporting education and high-quality research and innovation. it is also important that the commission and the member states improve the regulatory framework applicable to small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), taking into account the capacity of smes to create jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of single market governance within the european semester 2015. i cannot see a successful union without a strong and efficient single market. therefore it is of the utmost importance to include this pillar in the country-specific recommendations and ensure that they are followed.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. a well-functioning, integrated and even more liberal eu single market must become a key instrument to respond effectively to the challenges of globalisation, to take a leading position in global competition and to ensure that the eu's social standards are met. it is therefore essential that the single market is used as the third pillar of the european semester. this would help to better define clear priorities relating to the real economy, while fully respecting the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the eu. improve the governance of the single market by developing analytical tools, integrating a valuation system to measure the performance of the single market and integrating different methodologies. in addition, it would be appropriate to develop a composite indicator to assess the results of the regulation of the single market. another important aspect is that there is still a large untapped potential of the single market in key growth areas. in this context, investment should be linked to innovation and entrepreneurship, making the most of the opportunities offered by the digital economy and society and developing a smart eu industrial policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to combat sexual abuse of children and to stop the spread of paedophilia online. i support calls for eu member states to make more efforts to implement the 2011 directive on combating the sexual exploitation of children, to ensure more effective prosecution and to work more closely with online service providers and europol to remove illegal images.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the fight against child sexual abuse on the internet. first, it is our responsibility to ensure a safe environment for children's development. second, national governments, civil society, social media companies, parents, teachers and social workers must play an active role in raising awareness of this issue. there should be social platforms for cooperation and the exchange of information on this subject, with a view to identifying potential risks and threats to children.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because a comprehensive, eu-wide coordinated approach is needed to prevent sexual abuse of children online and to ensure their safety. the fight against child sexual abuse and sexual exploitation should be given priority as these are serious violations of fundamental rights. combating serious crime such as child sexual abuse and child pornography requires a comprehensive approach covering the prosecution of offenders, the protection of child victims and the prevention of crime. in particular, it is necessary to identify, rescue and support victims, to take action against offenders and to disrupt the further circulation of images by detecting and removing child sexual abuse images from the internet and preventing their re-upload. improve the systematic detection, removal and prevention of re-publication of images of child sexual abuse. the absence of borders on the internet requires improved international cooperation and cross-border research in this field. more attention should be paid to effective partnerships involving law enforcement, judicial authorities and the ict sector.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, boris nemtsov was the leader of opposition and free thought in russia. boris nemtsov was russia’s hope to become a democratic state. it is less important who actually pulled the trigger: we must ensure that not only the killers but also those who ordered this assassination are punished. it is obvious that boris was killed by forces that spread darkness, aggression and hatred in russia. it is unfortunate that today it is precisely these forces which are represented by the current russian leadership. for this reason, the russian leaders are responsible for the death of boris nemtsov. boris nemtsov is gone, but let us hope that this tragedy will become a stimulus for the opposition’s unity in russia. his unfinished work must be continued.
mr president, the picture of the body of boris nemtsov lying in front of the kremlin was a message someone chose to send in such a shocking way. this message is for us who represent democracy and values and who knew boris personally – knew him as a man of exceptional courage and strength. but, first and foremost, this is a brutal reminder for those in russia who are still trying to save their country from sliding into the darkest ages of its past. the parallel with the ussr of blood and terror of the 1930s is appalling and the message is that the dark times may become the unfortunate reality of russia tomorrow. everyone who perceives russia as a european state and nation is a spy, whoever speaks about corruption is an enemy, and whoever has his own opinion is a traitor. no one can feel safe – anyone could be next. it is clear that the atmosphere of hatred towards the west and of hostility to the open—minded people of russia made it possible for this to happen. it is a logical outcome of the policy line pursued in the last 15 years, namely putinism. today, by respecting the memory of boris nemtsov, we should not forget the fate of nadia savchenko. putin, free savchenko! (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i believe we have common sense and we know the colours of black and white. this is not painting in different colours; we know who is waging war in ukraine. those soldiers have insignia and armoured vehicles and we recognise those tanks and colours. please do not try to get away from the truth; face it and you will be freed.
mr president, a long list of opposition members who have been killed during recent years has been made longer after the death of boris nemtsov. these people are the casualties of war for a right to oppose the government, for a right to tell the truth, for a right to have your own opinion. all of them were murdered for their beliefs. it might also raise a question: is there a next target? the murder of boris nemtsov might bring the kremlin regime ever closer to the point of no return for russia. we might never know the exact truth about this murder. but it is obvious that the kremlin is responsible for creating an atmosphere of hatred, impunity, unlawfulness and terror. this is a scary message to the west. information that mr nemtsov was working on a report on russian soldiers’ involvement in ukraine is even more disturbing. there are two possible impacts that this murder might have on russian society. one, it can increase fear. another, that it can consolidate like—minded people under the banner for change. if this is the case, then there is hope for russia. the eu must not remain silent. we must encourage, help and protect all those who fight for democracy. europe has to be their safe haven, their shelter, if they should seek it.
in writing. mr president, the annual report on human rights and democracy covers very important issues of people facing discrimination. for this reason, we should make a special effort to ensure that citizens' rights are respected. the lisbon treaty places a high priority on cultural and linguistic heritage, while promoting the protection of linguistic and ethnic diversity as one of the fundamental principles of the european union. this right is conferred on citizens of the union by articles 21 and 22 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which means that the attempt to introduce the exclusivity of a particular language constitutes a restriction and a violation of the fundamental values of the union. in order to ensure that these standards are respected in the world, we must first of all introduce the principle of non-discrimination on grounds of language and ethnicity throughout the european union. unfortunately, there are still countries where the rights of minorities, especially indigenous ones, are violated. the european parliament and the commission should therefore urge all eu member states to ratify the council of europe framework convention for the protection of national minorities and the european charter for regional or minority languages without delay. it is also appropriate to recall the european parliament's resolution of july 2013 on linguistic diversity. it called on those countries which had not yet signed and ratified the charter to do so as soon as possible. he also called for the condemnation of all acts of language discrimination or forced, covert assimilation which are hostile to the languages and identities of other communities. in the 21st century europe, there can be no discrimination on ethnic grounds.
i support the report because it stresses first and foremost the benefits of the green economy and the need for an ecological transformation, since it is the development of the green economy that can help us to use resources more efficiently and to ensure sustainable development and create 5 million jobs by 2020. secondly, the report calls for reducing the minimum wage gaps between countries and for a conference on the european minimum wage system. the standardisation of the minimum wage would help to solve the problems of competition, emigration. thirdly, the text calls on the member states to ensure that self-employed persons enjoy fundamental rights and adequate social protection. the implementation of this provision would help people to reconcile work and family life, allow people on paternity or maternity leave to enter the labour market and maintain their qualifications.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for an independent international inquiry into the murder of mr nemtsov. i agree that the instruments available to the osce, the council of europe and the united nations should help ensure an impartial and fair investigation. the eu needs a unified and coherent policy towards russia, which commits the 28 eu member states and the eu institutions to a strong common position on the role of human rights in the development of eu-russia relations and on the need to end the suppression of freedom of expression, assembly and association in russia. i agree that the eu council should develop a common policy towards russia and allocate more resources to civil society in russia and in occupied crimea. the russian authorities must end any political and judicial pressure on opposition leaders, civil society representatives and independent media.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because there is a growing need for a united, firm, consistent and comprehensive european union policy towards russia, supported by all member states, with assistance, support and strong and reasoned criticism, based on the universal values to which both the eu and russia are committed. the european parliament has repeatedly expressed its concern about the state of democracy in russia and its continued failure to respect the rule of law and fundamental rights. russia also fails to respect the rule of law, due process standards, due process and the independence of the judiciary. the european parliament pays tribute to boris nemtsov, the eminent opposition leader, founder and leader of the solidarity political movement, who dedicated his life to a more democratic, prosperous and open russia and to russia's strong partnership with its neighbours and partners. parliament expressed its deepest condolences to the family and friends of boris nemtsov, to the opposition figures and to the russian people. parliament condemned the decision of the russian leadership to prevent some eu diplomats and state delegations from attending his funeral, thereby obstructing the eu's attempt to pay tribute to the courageous russian citizens fighting for universal values.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the european security and defence policy strategy needs to be revised and concrete efforts made to meet current and future security challenges. this is extremely topical as the current russian federation aggression against ukraine brings continuous violations of international norms and breaches of human rights. i truly support the rapporteur’s view that a new comprehensive political vision and strategy are needed in order to contain russia’s revisionist ambition, sustain international norms and withstand the on-going information and propaganda war against the eu and our values. the eu should step up its diplomatic efforts, urging russia to respect its commitments and international obligations regarding georgia, moldova and ukraine. bearing in mind the worrying geo-political developments in the eu neighbourhood, one must reiterate the member states’ responsibility to act in solidarity when it comes to addressing security threats, move from reactive to proactive approach, strengthen collective defence and collaboration with nato and respond in a univocal manner to common threats. for example, sanctions against russia can be lifted only when it withdraws from crimea and fully implements the minsk agreement, and this should apply to every member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for an annual report from the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to the european parliament. i agree that the priority objectives of eu foreign and security policy should be to protect european values and interests, to enhance the eu's contribution to the territorial defence of its member states and to the security of its citizens by strengthening its capacity to defend itself against the threats it faces, including terrorism, arms trafficking, drugs and human trafficking. it is necessary to support security, democratisation, the rule of law and economic and social development in the eu's neighbourhood. the eu must also take a leading role in conflict resolution and peace-keeping activities.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because an effective european union foreign policy must be based on a common understanding of the fundamental european interests, values and objectives, a common vision of external relations and a common understanding of the threats facing the eu as a whole. the main tasks of the eu's foreign and security policy are thus to protect european values and interests and to consolidate the political and legal order in europe, thus restoring and ensuring peace and stability. it is also essential to enhance the eu's contribution to the territorial defence and security of its member states' citizens by strengthening its capacity to defend itself against the threats it faces, including terrorism, arms trafficking, drugs and human trafficking. it is also necessary to support security, democratisation, the rule of law and economic and social development in the eu's neighbourhood. the european parliament considers it necessary to strengthen and combine the political, economic, financial and defence resources of the european union and its member states in order to maximise the eu's influence in the world, to develop interactions and to ensure peace and stability in europe and its neighbourhood.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to acknowledge that this report, along with its annexes, was born out of a constructive and vivid dialogue between different parliamentary bodies, political groups and consultations with ngos. such a systematic approach was crucial to achieve its objective, namely to complement and not duplicate already existing reporting mechanisms. the rapporteur struck a balance between providing a view of the most critical human rights breaches around the world on the one hand and guidelines for the international community in foreign assistance on the other. it is absolutely essential that this report address such themes as impunity and international criminal justice, freedom of expression, rights of women and children, lgtb rights, business and workers’ rights and – most importantly – protection of human rights defenders. human rights defenders are crucial to the work of european parliament. we must also remind ourselves that those who speak up for human rights and their violations are extremely vulnerable. we have witnessed such cases in ep hearings when many of those human rights defenders who spoke in front of the sub-committee were afterwards exposed to risks to their security or even detained and tortured by their own governments.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal for an annual report on human rights and democracy in the world in 2013 and for an eu policy on this matter. i support calls for human rights provisions to be included in eu international agreements, including trade and investment agreements with third countries, while ensuring that these agreements facilitate the economic and social development of the country. i agree with the need to develop a human rights-based tool for crisis prevention and to integrate it into the eu's approach to external conflicts and crises, as well as in the future revised european security strategy. it is important to apply a common european asylum system and to ensure common eu-wide standards for the reception of refugees in order to protect unaccompanied minors and the most vulnerable. the situation in ukraine, the continuing military action and the deteriorating human rights situation are among the eu's most important challenges today, which need to be addressed urgently and with a unified voice across the eu. it is also necessary for the eu to review its strategy towards china, which is increasingly facing serious human rights violations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament calls on all the institutions of the european union and the member states to focus on human rights in the eu's relations with all third countries, including strategic partners, and in all high-level statements and meetings. it is essential that member states adopt a common position in support of the indivisibility, inviolability and universality of human rights, and in particular by ratifying all international human rights instruments adopted by the united nations. the european parliament welcomes the adoption by the council of the eu annual report on human rights and democracy in the world in 2013 and calls on the new high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and vice-president of the commission to commit to participating in the two annual debates on eu human rights and democracy policy in the future, to be held during the plenary sessions of parliament, to present the eu report and to discuss the parliament's report. parliament called for the fight against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment to be continued, as the eu's action in this area remains insufficient and does not comply with its obligations under the eu guidelines on torture. the eu should give greater support to the establishment and strengthening of national and regional mechanisms for the prevention of torture.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution on the eu-arab league agreement on cooperation in the fight against terrorism. the eu faces a major threat from so-called eu foreign fighters, i.e. individuals who travel to other states to commit terrorist acts. today, between 3 500 and 5 000 eu citizens have left the eu to become foreign fighters in syria, iraq and libya. i agree that the eu must work more closely with the league of arab states, create a dedicated mechanism to curb arms trafficking, pay particular attention to the threat posed by the islamic state group, which has become the main sponsor of terrorism in and outside its control, and support international initiatives to combat radicalisation and terrorism. i support calls for closer cooperation with key partners and countries in the fight against terrorist financing. it is important to address the root causes of radicalisation by supporting initiatives across the arab world in the areas of youth, education, vocational training, employment opportunities and civil society.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the european union is facing a constant and growing threat from terrorism, which has significantly damaged several member states over the last decade, attacking its citizens and threatening the values and freedoms on which the union is founded. terrorist propaganda is spread more rapidly through the use of the internet and social media, and cyberterrorism allows terrorist groups to establish and communicate without the physical barriers of national borders. the european parliament therefore welcomes the continuing and joint efforts of the european union and the arab states to work together to address issues of common interest, noting the regular meetings of the foreign ministers of the european union and the league of arab states and the memorandum of understanding signed between the european external action service and the general secretariat of the league of arab states. the eu and the league of arab states shall engage in a strategic dialogue, which shall include exchanges on political and security issues, through the regular meetings of the eu political and security committee and the permanent representatives of the league of arab states.
in writing. ‒ the scientific information on the status of the common wolverine, its exact habitat boundaries, migration routes and breeding sites is insufficient. the common herring is a prized fish and is in high demand in the fisheries industry because of its exceptional economic value. in 2013, it was established that the stock of this fish was at a level exceeding the maximum sustainable yield. i support the calls for an assessment of the state of the stock of plain whiting, a proposal for a multiannual management plan to ensure that the stock exceeds the maximum sustainable yield, a scientifically based decision on minimum landings and a temporary cessation of fishing in certain areas to protect breeding grounds.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution because the state of stocks of common trawls is a matter of concern. the common wolverine is a prized fish which is in high demand in the fisheries industry because of its exceptional economic value. unfortunately, the mortality rate of this species remains very high and the common wolverine is slow to mature and grow, so it takes a long time to restore its population size. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission and the member states to assess the state of the common wolverine stock, its habitat boundaries, the migration of the species and the precise breeding sites. calls on the commission and the member states to make use of the european maritime and fisheries fund, which provides substantial funding for the collection of scientific data; it should be noted that it is important to assess precisely the different segments of activity related to the fishing for plaice and the percentage of the segment of amateur fishing in relation to the catch of this species. commercial and recreational fishing measures therefore need to be coordinated in order to maintain stocks in excess of the maximum sustainable yield, in line with the objectives of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to assess the eu's priorities in preparation for the 2015 session of the un human rights council. the regular sessions of the human rights council, the application of the mechanism for periodic assessment of the protection of human rights and the delegation of persons under special procedures to issues relevant to the situation in a particular country contribute to the promotion of and respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. i support calls for all governments to promote and support civil society organisations and human rights defenders and to allow them to operate without fear, repression or intimidation. i support calls for the eu, the commission and the eeas to integrate human rights into all areas of external policy in third countries. i agree that the un human rights monitoring mission and the osce special monitoring mission in ukraine need to be supported and strengthened.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because all states must respect the fundamental rights of their people, take concrete steps to facilitate respect for these rights at national level and cooperate at international level to remove obstacles to the enjoyment of human rights in all areas. the promotion of and respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law shall be contributed to through the regular organisation of sessions of the human rights council, the appointment of special rapporteurs, and the application of the universal periodic review mechanism. parliament expresses its concern at all restrictions on freedom of assembly and association, including bans on civil society organisations, the use of aggressive criminal laws against the defamation of honour and dignity and other restrictive laws. we therefore call on all governments to promote and support civil society organisations and human rights defenders, and to allow them to operate without fear, repression or intimidation, and to cooperate with the united nations human rights council through the universal periodic review mechanism and to ensure that states responsible for dealing with human rights activists should assume this responsibility.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution on the situation in venezuela. the arrest of democratically elected politicians and the imprisonment of opposition leaders in venezuela since february 2014 has sparked street protests, resulting in the deaths of 44 people. resolution urges the venezuelan government to release imprisoned political protesters and to stop allowing the use of firearms by security forces to quell civil protests. i support calls on the venezuelan government to ensure that citizens are not punished for exercising their rights to peaceful assembly and freedom of expression. it is also important that the government abide by its constitution and international commitments regarding the independence of the judiciary and political pluralism, which are the foundation of democracy. the government of venezuela must also ensure that the country has the right conditions to hold parliamentary elections in 2015. i agree that the european external action service should continue to monitor the investigations and trials of opposition leaders.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament expresses its deep concern at the deteriorating situation in venezuela and condemns the use of violence against demonstrators. a 14-year-old student who participated in a demonstration over food and medicine shortages became the first victim in venezuela after the use of firearms in such protests was allowed. parliament condemned the attacks on the civil demonstrations and expressed its condolences to the families of the students killed. it also calls on the venezuelan government to respect its constitution and international commitments relating to the independence of the judiciary, the right to freedom of expression, association and peaceful assembly, and political pluralism, which are the foundations of democracy. calls on the government of venezuela to facilitate the legitimate activities of human rights defenders and independent non-governmental organisations in promoting human rights and democracy; it is important to underline that the government of venezuela, as a non-permanent member of the united nations security council, has a special responsibility to respect the rule of law and international law. the european parliament also calls on the venezuelan government to ensure that the allegations are promptly and impartially investigated, leaving no scope for impunity and in full compliance with the principle of the presumption of innocence and due process.
mr president, the last european council took many important decisions for lithuania and other member states of the european union with regard to the energy union, the juncker fund and our eastern partners. the energy union, and especially the connection of the energy islands to the internal energy market, is the guarantee of our energy security. we must make every effort to see that president juncker’s project, the european fund for strategic investment, overcomes all the obstacles. in view of the eastern partnership summit in riga, we should send a strong signal to all our eastern partners that we will continue to support their commitment to fundamental freedoms and values, and at least that we shall never recognise or forget the illegal annexation of crimea, and that we shall give all possible political, economic and military support to ukraine. we must remain united.
in writing. mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the energy union is a context in which solidarity is particularly important. but what basis is there for eu solidarity when gazprom has increased gas supplies to italy and germany after the italian prime minister visited russian president vladimir putin on 5 march and the german ceo of wintershall visited the ceo of gazprom? does the political agreement on increased transparency in gas purchase agreements mean that member states will be obliged to provide information to the commission on such agreements, or will this remain a political declaration? it is a great pity that the declared solidarity of the eu member states does not yet mean the implementation of projects and the adoption of a united and truly solidarity-based position and action by the member states.
in writing. the last european council discussed issues of major importance for europe as a whole. the european council first considered the energy union as proposed by the commission, as it is necessary to ensure a secure, sustainable, low-cost supply of energy for all citizens. our people, their households and businesses are increasingly concerned about affordability and competitiveness of energy. unfortunately, the economic crisis has also increased energy poverty, because heating and electricity bills are so high that not everyone can afford them. the european council has given the highest priority to energy security and calls for a strengthened legal framework for the security of electricity and gas supply. energy security can also be enhanced by ensuring stable networks, energy efficiency and the use of local resources and safe and sustainable low-carbon technologies. the european semester and the annual survey of employment growth were also discussed. the european council exchanged views on the economic situation in europe and on the implementation of major structural reforms by the member states. it endorsed the three main pillars of the annual growth review, namely investment, structural reform and growth-friendly fiscal consolidation, and asked member states to reflect these priorities in their future national reform programmes and stability or convergence programmes.
rapporteur.– madam president, today we will vote on a small part of eu history. we are voting for eur 1.8 billion of macro-financial aid to ukraine, which will be the biggest financial package given by the european union to any third country. but that alone is not as important as the political message that the european union is united in its effort to help ukraine and to back it when the help is most needed. it has to be noted that our friends as well as our adversaries are looking for cracks in our unity. ukraine needs our unity in order to sustain clear reasoning for their reforms. just yesterday, we had an opportunity to talk to the ukrainian minister of the economy. he gave us a cold but clear overview on the reforms that his ministry and the government are undertaking. fighting the oligarchic structures, battling corruption and addressing inefficiency in the public sector are just a few of the points that he raised. it seemed to me that even the critics should have been convinced that ukraine is doing its utmost to reform itself. it is chilling to imagine any of our countries going through those sorts of reforms, actually changing dramatically many fields of life that people were accustomed to. that was one reason why a colleague asked if the minister is sure that the people of ukraine will keep up with and support the pace of the reforms. we were reassured that, with a clear message from europe that europe is standing by them, the people will support and understand the need for reform. our foes would rejoice if they saw us disunited and would use it for their propaganda. we already know what they would say: ‘see, europe cannot help the country that itself wished to sign an association agreement!’ the council, the commission, the committee on international trade (inta) and the committee on foreign affairs (afet) are all calling for agreement on the proposed report without amendments, for one main reason. that reason is that time is of crucial importance here. if we vote ‘yes’ on the report today, the commission will be able to issue the first tranche of the funds to ukraine at the beginning of the summer. if we want the country, which is still fighting for its territory, to be able to stabilise its budget and economy, we have to agree on providing the funds as soon as possible. of course, i have heard critics say that we are not sure whether the money will be used transparently or whether there are enough incentives for reform in the report. i believe, at this stage, that the commission has provided for enough controls in the document that would be signed with ukraine after our vote and following approval by the council. we are, and will remain, in close contact with the support group for ukraine regarding the reforms and regarding transparency in relation to the funds provided. when the situation in ukraine stabilises, and i want to believe that it will, we will come back to the debate on how we can help ukraine on its path to reform. dear colleagues, i call on you to support this report as presented without amendments, and to demonstrate our resolution to stand by ukraine.
rapporteur.– madam president, i have to say that i am very optimistic. i hear the unanimous voice of support for ukraine from so many groups in the house, and i hope that in a few moments we will all be proud members of a european parliament which made the right decision. we thank you again for all your support and wisdom. (sustained applause)
i am referring to the commissioner, and i am asking him whether it is lawful for national laws in one country to be imposed on other countries in the transport sector. on what grounds? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on competition are applied in a fair and transparent manner. market fragmentation and unfair competition are indeed a very serious threat to carriers in eastern europe, including my native lithuania. because they're not going to be able to compete with the demands that germany has put on them. so the worst-case scenario is that our carriers go bankrupt. workers will lose their jobs, their income. and finally, in all this, we must take into account the workers themselves and their rights. they do a really hard job, so they should be properly paid and socially protected. commissioner, i'm going to ask you again. the commission, in cooperation with the member states, must take the necessary measures in the transport sector to ensure that workers have jobs with adequate social guarantees.
the question asked when the blue card is raised. i would like to ask the honourable member whether, in your opinion, this decision is not directly related to the protection of your market?
the question asked when the blue card is raised. mr izmail and i have known each other since the last term and this issue today really shows that there are many unresolved issues within the european union itself. this is not the central issue in the debate on social dumping today. by joining the european union, we had to open up our markets. and everybody knew very well that there were different economic situations, different tax systems, and so there were different minimum wages. we have one in lithuania too. but the point is that germany, by actually introducing this law, is trying to compete with carriers from other countries in order to create a freer market for them to occupy. and does it not seem to you, my colleague, that we must, as you have said, make sure that the very basic principles of mutual trust in our european union are not undermined?
the german law is not in line with economic logic or the fundamental principles of the functioning of the internal market of the european union. it's been all over the place tonight. it is not just one country's interference in the social and labour policies of other countries. such laws are ostensibly designed to combat social dumping, but in reality they are a means of closing down national carriers and eliminating competition, especially from carriers from eastern and central european countries. and that will create additional social tensions in those countries. russia already imposes restrictions on carriers, especially from neighbouring countries of the european union. the carriers affected by this restriction have made a great effort to reorient their services from east to west in order to preserve their businesses and jobs, and it is therefore incomprehensible that the member states of the european union themselves introduce burdensome measures for carriers from other countries at such a difficult time. this undermines confidence in the single market, solidarity and free competition.
i think that this question has been clarified and studied from all sides enough. and i think that on the one hand we have to tell ourselves very clearly that there are huge differences in europe and we have to make a clear enough plan to reduce those differences as quickly as possible, to reduce them. and i think that the commission should withdraw its right in this case, relinquish its right, send a clear signal to germany that germany has exceeded its powers and that germany should immediately stop applying them to other countries and apply them only to its own country. and then we'll have time to figure out and predict the system and then we'll be able to run it.
in writing. today's debate on employment conditions, including minimum wage rates in the transport sector, touches on a service issue of major importance to most european countries and their priorities. this is of particular importance for countries where road transport services are an important part of the economy. this is the case in lithuania, where transport services account for 10 percent of the country's gdp. the union's decisions in this area must therefore take account of the interests of parties such as myself. the recent senseless german regulations requiring the application of the minimum wage also to carriers from other countries have contributed to the crisis in the european transport industry. it is unacceptable that the legal acts of one country impose obligations on entrepreneurs from other countries who do not carry on economic activity in that country. after all, using car transit in a country is not the same as applying for a job as a driver in that country. the german regulations in this case went too far and led to disturbances in the internal market of the union and restricted free movement of products. the best solution seems to be for the european commission to introduce the old and proven 'country of origin' principle for transport service providers and international transport. this will avoid discrimination against companies and workers from the new member states for whom transport services in transit through third countries are an important part of their economy.
in writing.– i believe that, in order to live in a modern society based on such european values as human dignity, one needs to address and understand history and the evolution of human moral behaviour. for this reason we should be prepared to recognise and accept past atrocities committed on the european continent. therefore, i would like to encourage the honourable members to recognise the memorial day for the roma genocide during the wwii period, in which the nazi regime conducted mass killings of roma people on racial grounds. however, certain discriminatory or xenophobic practices against the roma community persist in a number of eu countries to this day. these practices often arise from prejudices and stereotypes which generate hatred and divide societies. therefore, it is absolutely essential to obtain the equal treatment of such minorities. we should rethink how their social inclusion within national communities could be enhanced. i believe, first of all, that we should address the socioeconomic aspect and provide every opportunity to the roma minority to have access to vocational training and state education, and we should stop the dissemination of biased information building a negative image of the roma community.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to mobilise the egf for greece in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by the publishing company attica broadcasting. the greek economy has been in a deep recession for six consecutive years, with gdp falling by 25,7% since 2008, public consumption by 21%, private consumption by 32,3% and unemployment by 20,6%. the egf is intended to provide a total of eur 5 046 000 for 928 redundant workers. a tailored package of services will include guidance and counselling, skills assessment, retraining, vocational training and entrepreneurship advice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its consent to the granting of financial assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund to 928 workers made redundant by the greek company attika broadcasting during the reporting period from 12 june to 12 september 2014. according to the greek authorities, the main events triggering the redundancies were two: the decrease in disposable income of households due to the increased tax burden, the decrease in wages (in the private and public sectors) and the increase in unemployment and the consequent sharp decrease in purchasing power, and the need to allocate expenditure by priority by severely limiting, despite its importance, the expenditure on daily information. the commission notes that the bank of greece has not provided any information on the amount of the loan to the bank of greece. the co-financed package of services tailored to individual needs consists of vocational guidance, training, retraining and vocational training services, a subsidy for self-employment, a job-search allowance and a training allowance and a mobility allowance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, because the purpose of the european globalisation adjustment fund is to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. in this case, 928 people had lost their jobs as a consequence of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of aid to the attica region of greece, where 928 workers lost their jobs in the nine months of the reporting period as a result of the closure of 16 different publishing companies as a result of the economic crisis. in order to address emerging social problems as quickly as possible and taking into account the labour market situation in the affected area, support shall be provided for the vocational reorientation of dismissed workers, training and measures to promote entrepreneurship, self-employment and job creation. support is provided by the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the support provided by this fund is vital in the context of economic and social recovery. it is crucial that the eu shows solidarity with the workers made redundant during this period. the granting of the aid is necessary because the redundancies of 928 employees in the broadcasting sector have had a very negative impact on the attica region. it should be noted that this region already has the highest unemployment rate in greece compared to the other 12 regions. the support provided will undoubtedly help dismissed workers to find new jobs and reintegrate into the labour market as quickly as possible. the egf should be mobilised as a matter of urgency, as the discharge is directly linked to the global financial and economic crisis, which has reduced households' disposable income and thus sharply reduced their purchasing power, and drastically reduced lending to businesses and individuals, as greek banks were short of cash.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to mobilise the egf for greece in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by the company attica publishing, which operates in the broadcasting sector. the greek economy has been in a deep recession for six consecutive years, with gdp falling by 25,7% since 2008, public consumption by 21%, private consumption by 32,3% and unemployment by 20,6%. the egf is intended to provide a total of eur 3 746 700 for the redundancies of 705 workers. a tailored package of services will include guidance and counselling, skills assessment, retraining, vocational training and entrepreneurship advice.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report as it gives parliament its consent to the granting of financial assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund to 705 workers made redundant by the greek company attika publishing during the reporting period from 12 june to 12 september 2014. according to the greek authorities, the main events triggering the redundancies were two: the decrease in disposable income of households due to the increased tax burden, the decrease in wages (in the private and public sectors) and the increase in unemployment and the consequent sharp decrease in purchasing power, and the need to allocate expenditure by priority by severely limiting, despite its importance, the expenditure on daily information. the commission notes that the bank of greece has not provided any information on the amount of the loan to the bank of greece. the co-financed package of services tailored to individual needs consists of vocational guidance, training, retraining and vocational training services, a subsidy for self-employment, a job-search allowance and a training allowance and a mobility allowance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, because the purpose of the european globalisation adjustment fund is to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. in this case of the publishing sector in the attica region, 705 people have lost their jobs. these redundancies are expected to have huge negative impacts on the attica region, which already has the largest number of all the unemployed people in greece as compared to the other 12 regions. therefore, the publishing activities sector has been the subject of an application for financial support under the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting aid to the attica region of greece, which has the highest unemployment rate in greece compared to the other 12 regions. the ongoing global financial and economic crisis, which has led to the redundancies in the publishing sector in 46 companies, has created a number of social problems that need to be addressed urgently. therefore, support from the european globalisation adjustment fund will be used to promote business creation, vocational reorientation, training measures, unemployment benefits and mobility allowances.
in writing. ‒ the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund is necessary and necessary to prevent some of the very negative consequences that could result from such a large scale of redundancies in 46 different publishing companies. in this context, i support the proposal to provide financial assistance to greece for the implementation of active labour market measures, as the dismissal of 705 employees from publishing companies in the attica region is directly linked to the global financial and economic crisis. it is essential that all eligible redundant workers are given appropriate access to egf support measures tailored to their individual needs. only adequate and effective support will help these workers to return to the labour market. in order to mitigate the negative effects and improve the negative situation, dismissed workers should be provided with employment incentives and vocational guidance and retraining opportunities to help them return to the labour market as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this decision because it is the european parliament's decision to waive the immunity of the portuguese member of the european parliament, mr antonio marinho e pinto. the parliament decided to waive the immunity of the member in question on the grounds that the case was brought against him before he had completed his mandate in the european parliament and that he was accused of having defamed former members of the staff of the portuguese bar association when he was president of the portuguese bar association. the parliament's decision also states that there is no evidence of any attempt to obstruct the parliamentary work of mr marinho e pinto by using the case, and that there are therefore no legal obstacles to the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this decision because it was the european parliament's decision to waive the immunity of the croatian mep, mr ivano jakovčić. parliament decided to waive the immunity of the member concerned on the basis of a private defamation case brought against him in relation to events which occurred before he took up his duties as a member of the european parliament. the parliament's decision also states that there is no suspicion that an attempt was made to obstruct the parliamentary work of mr jakovčić through the use of the case, and therefore there are no legal obstacles to the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to mobilise the egf for greece in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by 'lufthansa technik'. the irish authorities argue that the closure of 'lufthansa technik' was caused by a significant change in eu trade in goods and services due to the technological change, as a result of the transition to the production of a new generation of aircraft types and components. the development of aircraft component production methods affected the market rules underlying the business model of lufthansa technik and changed the global location of aircraft production. the egf is intended to provide a total of eur 2 490 758 for the redundancies of 149 workers. a tailored package of services will include guidance and counselling, skills assessment, retraining, vocational training and entrepreneurship advice.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report as it gives parliament its consent to the granting of financial assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund to 149 workers made redundant by the irish company 'lufthansa technik' during the reporting period from 1 march to 30 june 2014. the irish authorities argue that the closure of ltai was caused by a significant change in eu trade in goods and services due to the technological change, as a result of the transition to the production of new generation aircraft types and components. the development of aircraft component production methods affected the market forces underlying ltai's business model and changed the global location of aircraft production. the coordinated package of co-funded tailor-made services consists of guidance and career planning, egf training grants, training and further education programmes, higher education programmes, support for enterprises and the self-employed, financial support including a scheme for egf contributions towards the cost of courses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, because the purpose of the european globalisation adjustment fund is to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the closure of the lufthansa plant was the result of a serious shift in eu trade in goods and services resulting from a technological shift towards the production of new generation aircraft and components. the closure of the plant has had a serious impact on employment and the local and regional economy. i therefore agree with the commission and rapporteur that due to the exceptional circumstances put forward by the irish authorities, ireland is entitled to get a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of supporting the re-skilling and integration of the population of the south and east of ireland into the labour market after the closure of the aircraft and component manufacturing plant in ltai and the relocation of its parent company, lufthansa technik, to asian countries, which led to a record number of redundancies and an unemployment rate of 23% in the region. support is provided from the european globalisation adjustment fund for vocational reorientation of the unemployed, career planning measures, and continuing education programmes.
in writing. ‒ the i support the proposal for aid to ireland. it should be noted that the local and regional economy is suffering from a very significant negative impact as a result of the redundancies. therefore, although the country does not meet the requirements of the regulation, given the current situation and the reasons given, it should be granted a derogation from the intervention criteria set by the egf. it is important to note that workers in this sector have very specific skills that are difficult to apply in other sectors, making it difficult for workers to find new jobs easily. the egf will support the reintegration of the most disadvantaged into the labour market by supporting workers in the repair and installation of machinery and equipment who have lost their jobs. in particular, they will be offered employment incentives, vocational guidance and retraining opportunities. in this context, the implementation of the measures envisaged will help to reduce the negative impact on the south and east of ireland, where a significant number of disadvantaged people live in poverty.
in writing. – i voted in favour of waiving the immunity of mr viktor uspaskich. i strongly support the view that parliament should not take the role of a court and should trust the lithuanian national courts. i believe that political immunity cannot be a safeguard to prevent members of the european parliament from taking responsibility in their member state when they are found in the act of committing an offence. i support the report given by the committee claiming that mr uspaskich was afforded the right to a fair hearing at every possible level. the main motive for the procedure of waiving immunity that was presented by the rapporteur ms regner was the fact that the definition of the offences giving rise to the charges has always remained the same. moreover, by the decision to waive mr uspaskich’s immunity the european parliament has one more time approved believing in lithuania as a democratic country ensuring the rule of law, and respecting human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this decision because it is the european parliament's decision not to waive the immunity of former italian mep gabriele albertini. the parliament took the view that the newly produced supporting documents for mr albertini did not show any link between the statements he made and his duties as a member of the european parliament, and that the fumus persecutionis doctrine, i.e. the sufficiently serious and clear suspicion that the case was brought with a view to damaging the political reputation of the member concerned, could not be applied in the present case, since mr albertini was not currently denying his duties as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to provide ukraine with a eur 1.8 billion medium-term loan to help the country deal with the economic downturn. this macro-financial assistance would complement the support provided by other donors under the economic programme financed by the international monetary fund. the ukrainian economy is facing a severe crisis, which has been caused by long-standing structural problems and has been exacerbated by the armed conflict with russia. macro-financial assistance is an exclusive eu crisis response mechanism available to eu partner countries facing major balance of payments problems. this assistance should also contribute to the gradual restoration of confidence and support the reforms under way in the country, in the context of the implementation of a policy programme to be agreed with the ukrainian authorities.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it supports the commission's proposal to allocate eur 1.8 billion of eu assistance to ukraine to ensure a more sustainable balance of payments situation. the ability of the ukrainian authorities to carry out the necessary reforms is significantly hampered by the armed conflict in the east, the growing trade restrictions imposed by russia and the escalation of the gas dispute between the two countries. the conflict in the east and the crisis of confidence have caused a sharp depreciation of the local currency and depletion of international reserves as export revenues have been lost. the commission has also received comments from the ukrainian authorities, which have not provided any information on the measures taken by the ukrainian authorities to restore the financial situation of the ukrainian economy. this has resulted in a significant additional external financing shortfall. eu assistance will thus help ukraine to overcome the economic and social difficulties caused by the unrest in the country and the region. it will promote structural reforms to enhance sustainable economic growth and improve public financial management.
in writing. ‒ the european union has signed an association agreement with ukraine, which clearly outlined ukraine's choice to pursue a path to democracy on the one hand, and reaffirmed the eu's commitment to support ukraine on its path to democracy and progressive change on the other. ukraine is currently in a situation where it is not only simultaneously trying to implement the necessary structural reforms, but is also involved in an aggressive military conflict with neighbouring russia. to wage war and seek progressive change at the same time would be an extremely difficult test for any country with a solid foundation in values and economics. meanwhile, ukraine is a country that is still maturing in many areas of national life. in order to support the reforms being undertaken by the legitimate authorities of ukraine and to stabilise the country's financial situation, the eu is obliged to provide macro-financial assistance to ukraine. on the basis of these arguments, i voted against the commission's proposal without amendments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i support the commission's proposal to grant macro-financial assistance to ukraine. ukraine is experiencing a complex economic and financial crisis as a result of the russian occupation its currency has depreciated, international reserves have been depleted, and its ability to borrow on the international market has been reduced. the commission has also received comments from the ukrainian authorities. the objective of the eu's macro-financial assistance is to help ukraine maintain financial stability, reduce its balance of payments deficit, demonstrate support for the reforms being undertaken by the ukrainian government and show solidarity with the war-torn population. financial stability in ukraine will help ensure its economic and political stability, and at the same time contribute to the security of the entire european region.
in writing. - i voted for this report. macro-financial assistance to ukraine is necessary as the ukrainian economy is facing a severe and serious crisis. in view of this, we must be united in helping the country to stabilise its economic and financial situation. however, solidarity is not possible without a commitment to the reforms that ukraine urgently needs. the financial assistance provided will contribute to the gradual restoration of confidence and support the reforms under way in the country, in the context of the implementation of the policy programme to be agreed with the ukrainian authorities. it should be noted that macro-financial assistance is a unique eu crisis response mechanism that ensures a sustainable way out of a difficult economic situation. this additional assistance will undoubtedly be important for the development of a new international support package for ukraine. it will also complement the support provided by other donors under the imf-funded economic programme.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which proposes a common approach to tax policy that can serve as a pragmatic tool for stimulating growth. tax fraud and tax evasion cost the eu around €1 trillion in potential tax revenue each year. the main priorities for international tax policy at present are: to develop a comprehensive strategy to combat tax evasion and avoidance and to establish a global standard for administrative cooperation. three priority areas are identified. first, it identifies important initiatives that can help to ensure legal certainty, promote crossborder trade, help to exploit the full potential of the single market and thus stimulate growth and employment. second, coordinated and comprehensive action is needed to combat tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens. such urgent action could be an alternative to the introduction of new levels or forms of taxation and provide much-needed additional funds to boost public investment, growth and employment. third, tax policy coordination through clearly defined structural tax reforms that would stimulate growth, employment and investment in the medium to long term.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is the european parliament's annual report on tax policy in the member states of the european union. in this report, parliament notes that tax fraud and tax evasion cost the eu some eur 1 trillion in potential tax revenues each year and that these losses pose a serious threat to the efficiency and fairness of the eu's tax systems, as the tax burden increases for all honest citizens and businesses. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. parliament called it a first step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the annual tax report because it sets out the european parliament's clear and pragmatic position on the priorities of international tax policy the fight for a more transparent tax system and the setting of a standard for global administrative cooperation. firstly, it will reduce the administrative burden on businesses and remove barriers in national legal systems to make more effective use of the opportunities offered by the single market, thereby boosting growth and employment across the eu. also, given that tax policy provides a revenue base and is one of the key elements of fiscal sustainability, the transparency of tax systems will be pursued. finally, coordination in the field of tax policy will be strengthened, as only through concerted action and the sharing of relevant information can tax policies be designed to stimulate investment, job creation and economic growth across the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the annual tax report because i support the main lines of action and initiatives it contains in the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion, tax avoidance and tax havens. the communication calls on the european commission and the member states to develop tax policies that promote growth, employment and investment and reduce the administrative burden on honest taxpayers.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on the annual tax report. coordinated action at eu level is needed to combat tax fraud, tax evasion, tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and tax havens. transparency standards should be incorporated into future trade agreements. member states should not pursue aggressive tax policies that have a particularly negative impact on business operators. to promote growth and employment, it is necessary to maintain healthy and transparent tax competition between member states. the national tax authorities have a special role to play as guarantors of an effective, efficient and lawful national tax policy. in addition, strict penalties must be applied to prevent companies from infringing tax standards or avoiding liability for infringements. it should be noted that tax policy must help to exploit the benefits of the internal market. to ensure a long-term and growth-friendly economic policy, the coordination of forward-looking tax policies should be encouraged.
in writing.– the changes to the ceilings in the eu’s multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 are necessary and inevitable. eu funds have a huge impact on the real lives of people as an essential tool for job creation, improvement of our environment and stimulation of infrastructure investments. we must ensure that member states will not lose eu funds allocated to them and that the eur 21.1 billion in uncommitted appropriations, representing 15% of the 2014 budget, will reach our citizens. thus i welcome the proposed amendment and very much hope that my colleagues will vote in favour of it as well.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the proposed amendment to the regulation to transfer to this year the eur 21.1 billion that were not used in 2014. the amount of unused funds was due to the delay in agreeing the mff regulation. as a result, the various legal acts laying down the provisions for implementing the operation of the funds were also adopted late. this is the case for the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the cohesion fund, the european agricultural fund for rural development, the european maritime and fisheries fund, the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund. their provisions were only approved in may 2014. as a result, 300 programmes (47%) could not be adopted in 2014 and their appropriations could not be used. it is therefore necessary to adopt the amendments to the regulation as soon as possible and to transfer unused appropriations to the current year's budget in order to ensure the implementation of all the programmes envisaged.
in writing. the european parliament welcomes the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 laying down the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014 to 2020. it is therefore essential that we in the european parliament endorse this recommendation on the transfer of commitment appropriations from 2014 to 2015, as this is necessary to complete the process of opening the new programming period for cohesion policy and to avoid any negative consequences for regions and cities and, at the same time, for european citizens. the european structural and investment funds implement the union's main investment policy and it is therefore essential that all resources are used as timely and efficiently as possible in order to promote growth and job creation. the new programming period is already very late and it must be ensured that there are no further delays or losses.
mr president, we all have high hopes and expectations for the historic reconciliation of two nations and states; two very important partners of europe situated in a very vibrant region. i am of the opinion that in a situation like this the one which was bigger and stronger back then, and which is bigger and stronger today – that is turkey – should be leading the process. in europe, we have a few more examples of such a struggle and we also have the positive cases that should be followed. i see our role, as the politicians of europe, to help this happen at every instance. courageous, sincere, forward-looking and european, i truly expect turkey to act this way. decent and respectable recognition of this strategy would signal the ‘europeanness’ of turkey, which is more and more needed today. this is so much needed for the entire region and it is needed today, not tomorrow.
the stories of all our countries are different. different tragic and painful. but despite our painful histories, the suffering of nations and the tragedy of broken families, it is very important to remember the past as it really was. only by being honest with ourselves and acknowledging our past can we look to the future with confidence and seek reconciliation. it is the only way to ensure that such cruel and inhuman events will never happen again. therefore, as we approach the centenary of the armenian genocide, i would like to remind you that back in 2005, the seimas of the republic of lithuania adopted a resolution, and a few days ago pope francis, and today the european parliament commemorated the victims of these terrible massacres by calling them by their true name genocide. and that's very important. the past is the foundation of the future, colleagues, and we should not be afraid to look back.
it is clear that the issue of employment quotas for disabled people is linked to positive discrimination, which also shows the maturity of our society and the willingness to take action to address the problems of specific groups. but are quotas the answer? i think we should change the evaluation system for the selection of candidates. if we give higher scores to disabled people who want to work in the european union institutions, we will create a real opportunity for them to get into the eu. in ways that disabled people don't feel excluded, and being excluded, being treated differently is a huge problem. another important aspect is the willingness of the european union institutions to accept disabled people. i think if members of parliament closed their eyes and tried to get into their offices with a blind stick, they would probably be surprised at how hard it is to do that, because there's not much infrastructure in place. i'm talking about not having special people escort a blind person to his workplace, because it will again be perceived as discrimination, often labeled as the annoying discrimination of the disabled. let's adapt buildings, equip suitable workplaces, inform disability organisations in all member states of the work we have done, let's allow disabled people to come and see the change, set up systems of positive discrimination against job vacancies and make sure that change happens. that's what i'm calling you to do.
commissioner, we have discussed in this european parliament many times the need to employ as many people with disabilities as possible. however, despite the adoption of numerous conventions, directives and policies prohibiting any discrimination against disabled people in the field of employment, we still do not provide disabled people with sufficient opportunities to work. for example, in the european disability strategy 2010-2020 we call on member states to take the necessary action to facilitate the employment of people with disabilities, but in this strategy we have completely forgotten about the possibilities for the employment of people with disabilities right here in the institutions of the european union. why would you do that? this needs to be fixed immediately. commissioner, i understand from what you said that we do not have specific, accurate statistics on the number of disabled people employed in the european union institutions. we may not know whether those people who are already working have sufficient opportunities to work at a high quality level. in other words, whether they have a suitable working environment. i would therefore ask the commission, which has only recently started its work, to present to us here in the european parliament, perhaps as early as autumn, a strategy with concrete measures on what needs to be done to make the european union institutions an example for all member states in the employment of disabled people.
the committee on agriculture, responsible for the issue of genetically modified organisms, in the lithuanian parliament today adopted a historic decision to make lithuania a full member of the eu directive 412 on the prohibition of the cultivation of gmos. the lithuanian seimas also commits to seeking measures to restrict the placing of gmo feed on the lithuanian market. i welcome this rational decision, which should serve as an example for other member states. i, for my part, call on all the institutions of the european union to honour this will of citizens and consumers and to ensure that every member state has a real chance of abandoning the cultivation of gmos on its territory. i would like to ask both the european parliament and the commission to ensure that the procedures governing the member states' choice to opt for gmo-free status are not encumbered by excessive bureaucratic requirements and that the member states have a real, not just a theoretical, opportunity to opt out of gmos.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for french needs. the application relates to an allocation from the egf of eur 6 052 200 for the benefit of france. it will be allocated to 2513 redundancies at the 'mory-ducros' company. according to the bank of france, the annual number of bankruptcies in the road freight sector increased by 35% between 2007 and 2013. the global financial and economic crisis is thought to have led to a decline of 13.7% in the eu and 21% in france between 2007 and 2012 in the volume of road freight transport by vehicles over 3.5 tonnes. the package of services tailored to the dismissed employees will include guidance and counselling, skills assessment, retraining, vocational training and advice on entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it was the european parliament's way of giving its support to the european globalisation adjustment fund for the dismissal of 2804 employees of the french company 'mory-ducros sas' as a result of the financial crisis. the parliament's report notes that 17% of the targeted beneficiaries are in the 55-64 age group and that their participation in the proposed support measures would help them to avoid long-term unemployment and social exclusion. the redundancies at 'mory-ducros sas' are linked to the decline in the overall physical labour force in europe, which has led to a decline in the volume of freight transported and has led to a price war in the road freight sector, which has led to a steady decline in operating margins and losses in france since 2007, and subsequently to a wave of bankruptcies in the road freight transport sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the purpose of the european globalisation adjustment fund is to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. in this case in the road haulage sector several thousands of people have lost their jobs. bankruptcies in france in this sector have increased by 35% annually. this is seen as being the result of the global financial and economic crisis. this request fulfils the criteria for funding.
in writing. ‒ the i support the proposal to grant financial support to a french company. in view of the potential negative impact, financial assistance for redundant workers should be dynamic and available as quickly and efficiently as possible. support measures would help to avoid long-term unemployment and social exclusion. in addition, the package of measures applied would contribute to the transition towards a resource-efficient and sustainable economy. in this context, it is essential that redundant workers are assisted as soon as possible in their reintegration into the labour market. it is to be welcomed that the french authorities, well before the decision and even before the application for egf support, provided emergency assistance to the redundant workers and started to apply measures adapted to individual needs. it should be noted that the application submitted complies with the requirements for determining the amount of the financial contribution from the egf. there are therefore no obstacles to the granting of aid. timely and effective measures will help to bring back as many of the supported workers as possible to the labour market and prevent negative spill-over effects across the region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to set up a social security committee. this committee will be an advisory body to the council and the commission, and will seek to improve cooperation between the two institutions in the field of social protection. its tasks are to monitor the social situation and the development of social protection policies in the member states and the eu, to promote the exchange of information and good practice between member states and the commission. it also prepares reports and formulates opinions in its fields of competence, either on its own initiative or at the request of the commission or the council. the committee shall be composed of two representatives from each member state and two representatives from the commission.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on the council decision establishing the social security committee and repealing decision 2004/689/ec. in its conclusions of 17 december 1999 on cooperation in modernising and improving social protection, the council endorsed the commission's proposal to establish a stronger cooperation mechanism, which had been drawn up by a group of high-level officials for the implementation of this action. the council stressed that such cooperation should cover all forms of social protection and, where appropriate, help member states to improve and strengthen their social protection systems on the basis of national priorities. it also recalled the competence of the member states to organise and finance social protection and endorsed the four general objectives of the commission's overall objective of modernising social protection systems: first, to work towards paying for work and guaranteeing a guaranteed income; second, to work towards guaranteeing pensions and creating sustainable pension systems. third, to promote social inclusion and fourth, to ensure high quality, sustainable and accessible healthcare. the council also stressed that the principle of equality between men and women must be respected in all areas of action in order to achieve these four objectives.
in writing. - i agree with the ruling. the social security committee, which has an advisory status, is an important body to ensure better coordination of employment and social policies. in view of the developments in the implementation of the european semester, it is essential that its role is appropriately strengthened and its effectiveness increased in the european semester process. it is of particular importance that the esf effectively monitors the social and labour market situation and responds in a timely manner to potential threats, as well as ensures better coordination of employment, social and economic policies, taking full account of national competences.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council decision renewing the mandate of the social protection committee and adding new functions. the committee is active in a very important area - providing advice on social security, healthcare, pensions and social inclusion - which is not largely covered by eu law. in the absence of binding decisions for member states, the search for compromise, the exchange of good practice and the identification of elements of good european practice through compromise are of particular importance. i therefore believe that the committee's renewed and clarified mandate will contribute both to more effective coordination of member states' social policies and to the further development and improvement of the informal european governance tool, the open coordination model.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to set up an employment committee. this committee will be an advisory body to the council and the commission, and will seek to improve cooperation between the two institutions in the field of employment and labour market policy. its tasks are to promote the consideration of high-level employment in union policy, the coordination of macroeconomic policies and economic reform, to participate actively in the macroeconomic dialogue at eu level, to contribute to and inform the council on all aspects of the european semester and to promote the exchange of information and experience between the member states and the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted on this report on the council decision establishing the employment committee and repealing decision 2000/98/ec. in order to promote coordination of employment and labour market policies in the member states, in full compliance with the treaty and with due regard for the powers of the community institutions and bodies, the council hereby establishes an advisory committee on employment. in carrying out its tasks, which include consultation and participation in the work of the council and the commission, the committee should contribute to ensuring that the european employment strategy, the coordination of macroeconomic policies and the economic reform process are developed and implemented in a consistent and mutually supportive manner. the committee should work closely with the social partners, in particular those represented in the standing committee on employment. in its conclusions of june 2013, the european council stated the importance of ensuring better coordination of employment, social and economic policies, while fully respecting national competences.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to set up an employment committee as an advisory body to the council and the commission. in today's context, where employment is one of the most serious constraints on the eu's economic recovery, we need to use the administrative leverage we have at our disposal, to focus the expertise of professionals and the capacity of institutions to tackle this problem. i hope that the advisory committee on employment, which is being set up, will ensure the consistent implementation of the european employment strategy. it will also contribute to more effective macroeconomic policy coordination and the implementation of economic reforms.
in writing. - i voted for this decision. whereas the role of the committee is crucial in developing the european semester and ensuring the implementation of the european employment strategy; in particular, it will help to implement effectively the coordinated employment strategy and ensure that macroeconomic policy coordination and the economic reform process are designed and implemented in a coherent and complementary manner. it should be noted that the role of the employment committee is crucial in developing a skilled, professionally prepared and adaptable workforce and in promoting labour markets that adapt to economic change. in this context, it is essential that the role of the committee be properly reflected in the european semester and that it be given sufficient operational freedom and flexibility to adapt to the european semester cycle and thus ensure the effectiveness and continuity of its activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council decision renewing the mandate of the employment committee and adding new functions. the committee is active in a very important area - employment advice - which is not generally covered by eu law. in the absence of decision-making powers binding on the member states, the search for compromise, the exchange of good practice and the identification of elements of good european practice through compromise are of particular importance, and these are areas in which the committee, together with the social security committee, is particularly well placed. i therefore believe that the committee's renewed and clarified mandate will contribute both to more effective coordination of member states' employment policies and to the further development and improvement of the informal european governance tool, the open coordination model.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the proposed amendment to the regulation to transfer to this year the eur 21.1 billion that was not used in 2014. the amount of unused funds was due to the delay in agreeing the mff regulation. as a result, the various legal acts laying down the provisions for implementing the operation of the funds were also adopted late. this is the case for the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the cohesion fund, the european agricultural fund for rural development, the european maritime and fisheries fund, the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund. the provisions of these were only approved in may 2014. as a result, 300 programmes (47%) could not be adopted in 2014 and their appropriations could not be used. it is therefore necessary to adopt the amendments to the regulation as soon as possible and to transfer unused appropriations to the current year's budget in order to ensure the implementation of all the programmes envisaged.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation, in which the european parliament welcomes the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 establishing the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014 to 2020. it is important to support the proposal to carry over appropriations from 2014 to 2015 in order to complete the process of launching the new programming period for the cohesion policy and to avoid any negative consequences for regions and cities and, at the same time, for european citizens. this proposal does not envisage any change in the payment appropriations, on the assumption that the transfer of commitment appropriations from 2014 to 2015 will not create any particular obstacles to payments in the coming year. the european parliament's rapporteur doubts the correctness of this approach and hopes that the calculations made by the commission services will prove to be realistic and that the flexibility provisions in the current mff regulation will be sufficient to respond to any increase in interim payment requests in 2017 and 2018.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amending the regulation because the amendments adopted allow the process of the start of the new programming period for cohesion policy to be successfully completed and any negative consequences for the member states and their citizens to be avoided. in order to accelerate the eu's economic recovery and create new jobs, we need to make the most efficient and timely use of the investments coming through the european structural and investment funds. only by ensuring the necessary legal framework for a smooth investment programming can we achieve what europe needs most today - efficient investment absorption.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this motion. it should be noted that this amendment to the regulation is necessary to complete the process of opening the new programming period for cohesion policy and to avoid any negative consequences for regions and cities and, at the same time, for european citizens. another important aspect is the issue of late payment, which is unacceptable and needs to be resolved without delay. we need to take decisive action and measures to solve it once and for all and avoid any additional payment problems. in order to promote growth and job creation, it is essential that all resources are used as timely and efficiently as possible. the new programming period is already very late and it is necessary to ensure that there are no further delays or losses in the future. it is also essential to ensure that the existing flexibility provisions of the mff regulation are sufficient to respond to any increase in the number of applications for interim payments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide. in 1987, the european parliament adopted a resolution recognising the armenian genocide, becoming one of the first international organisations to recognise the event. in subsequent resolutions on eu-turkey relations, the ep called on the turkish government to do the same. the motion for a resolution expresses its gratitude to all those who have contributed to the investigation, recognition and commemoration of the armenian genocide. i agree that the prevention of genocide and crimes against humanity should be one of the priorities of the international community and the european union. it is important that turkey recognises the armenian genocide and thus paves the way for a genuine reconciliation between the turkish and armenian peoples.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it honours the memory of the victims of the armenian genocide of 1915-1917 in the territory of the ottoman empire. parliament also proposed the establishment of a european day of remembrance of the genocide to recall the right to peace and dignity of all people and peoples in the world. in its communication, parliament encourages armenia and turkey to follow the successful example of european reconciliation and to focus on an agenda of cooperation between peoples, believing that this will facilitate the historic reconciliation of the armenian and turkish peoples in a spirit of truth and respect. parliament also welcomed the initiatives of turkish and armenian civil society to seek to normalise relations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to mark the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide. i welcome the european parliament's commitment to making the prevention of genocide and crimes against humanity a priority for the international community and the european union.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. every nation must find the strength to rise, to overcome its sorrow and to build life anew. all people and nations in the world have the right to peace and dignity. it is therefore essential that all efforts be directed towards the timely prevention and effective punishment of genocide and crimes against humanity. this must become a global priority. it is also essential to preserve the living memory of the past and to pay due respect to the memory of the one and a half million armenians who died in the ottoman empire. we are well aware of the long, glorious and rich history of the armenian people. sadly, this history, like that of many other nations, has had its share of painful, tragic periods that have claimed many lives. i support the proposal to establish a european day of remembrance for the victims of the genocide. it would be a great example of our solidarity in honouring the memory of the innocent victims of any genocide and of all crimes against humanity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to recognise the genocide of the roma in europe during the second world war. there are between 10 and 12 million roma in europe and they are the largest ethnic minority in europe. the nazi regime and other regimes during world war ii killed at least 500,000 roma, and in some countries more than 80 percent of the roma community. the resolution publicly recognises the historical fact of the genocide of the roma during the second world war. the european day should be dedicated to the victims of the roma genocide during the second world war, and i agree that it should be called the european roma holocaust remembrance day.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is parliament's way of marking international roma day and of drawing attention to the persistent anti-gypsyism and the resulting racial hatred and discrimination in our societies. the resolution also seeks to recognise a european day of remembrance for the roma genocide during the second world war, as, although according to various estimates, at least 500 000 roma were killed by the nazi regime and other regimes and their allies during the second world war, the genocide of roma committed by the nazi regime and other regimes and their allies during the second world war is still unknown to the public and is therefore not recognised by a large part of the public.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i am convinced that only by learning from the mistakes of history and educating society about crimes against humanity can we ensure the implementation of the values of the european union. the resolution recognises the genocide of the roma during the second world war in europe, which is unknown to and therefore not recognised by the majority of the population. this must be taken into account when initiating national and international legislation. we must learn from history and do more in our member states, in particular by working with roma communities and educational organisations to change xenophobic and discriminatory attitudes towards roma people, and to promote their social integration.
in writing. ‒ the i voted for this resolution. members of the roma community still face very serious problems of exclusion and discrimination across the eu. in this context, measures should be taken to strengthen the fight against anti-roma sentiment. the eu countries should officially recognise the genocide of the roma during the second world war. i support the proposal that a european day should be dedicated to the victims of the roma genocide during the second world war and that this day should be called the european roma genocide during the second world war. eu-wide recognition of the roma genocide would be a historic event for the roma community and for europe. it is worth noting that roma are discriminated against in all areas of life. this has a particularly negative impact on the most vulnerable groups in society, especially children. it is therefore essential to promote equal access for roma children to housing, healthcare, education and decent living conditions.
the incentives to switch to biofuels are necessary today. the new rules should facilitate the development of the next generation of low-polluting biofuels throughout the european union. however, it is essential to take account of the legitimate expectations of businesses, their investments and their protection, and the different situations in the european union, when setting ambitious targets. first, the cap on first-generation biofuels must be acceptable and enforceable by all countries. i think it's important. the market stability and the return on investment already made in first generation biofuel production capacity need to be ensured. secondly, the development of new technologies would simplify the production process and production costs of biofuels and allow the use of new types of raw materials. however, advanced biofuel technologies are still in development, many at demonstration level and not economically viable. i therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is essential to promote research and technological development in the new advanced biofuel sectors. it's the only way we're going to get where we want to go. (the president agreed to answer the question put by the person who raised the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to the question posed by the blue card. i think that right now (and this document we're talking about) that's the incentive and the search for a solution to the question you're asking. on one side. on the other hand, we must also take account of the interests of the member states of the european union, the situations in the various countries of the european union, and finally the investments made by businesses, and so on. in this place, we have to look for a reasonable consensus and a reasonable compromise to maximize results. otherwise we will have ambitious goals, we will have high aspirations and, unfortunately, a poor result.
thank you, chairman, i really believe you did this by accident. commissioner, biofuels were seen as a viable solution to many problems a few years ago. the agreement reached between the commission and parliament currently sets a 7% limit for first-generation biofuels produced from food crops. such drastic policy changes once again demonstrate the need for a very balanced approach to legislation. the growth of the biofuels market in lithuania has been very strong as many as four biofuels plants have been built. it is very important that the proposal protects existing investments until 2020. also to encourage the further development of advanced biofuels, which have a lower indirect land-use change impact than conventional biofuels. it is necessary to enable viable companies to invest in progress.
the use of plastic bags is growing. worldwide, about a million are used every minute. it's a serious threat to the environment and to people, so we can't do anything about it. first, new rules and measures to reduce the use of plastic bags must not only be ambitious, but also have a real positive environmental impact. environmental protection must be made economically viable for people. second, only if the reduction targets are based on real consumption data will real and measurable results be achieved. the european union should therefore develop a methodology for the accounting of lightweight plastic bags and only then set mandatory targets for the reduction of plastic bag use, otherwise we will not achieve the result. third, a plastic bag tax could be a good solution to the problem. however, under no circumstances may hidden charges for their use be included in the price of the product. the transition to the new taxation cannot be drastic. together we must promote the use of alternative means.
the question asked when the blue card is raised. in fact, i get the impression that the only way to reduce the use of plastic bags is not to give them away for free. how do you think that would be the most effective way for us to consider since when to do that? is it from 2015, or from 2016, or from 2018, or from 2020? what do you think?
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to empower member states to ratify the international convention on the staff regulations of fishing vessels. international convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for fishing vessel personnel the international maritime organisation adopted the convention in 1995 and the convention in 1996. this convention has been ratified by four member states: spain, denmark, latvia and lithuania. it aims to ensure that the personnel on board fishing vessels are qualified (hold appropriate official certificates) and able to perform their duties (as demonstrated by medical examination) in order to minimise the risk to life and property or the marine environment during fishing operations. fishing is the occupation with the highest accident rate, with 24 000 deaths per year. i agree with the suggestions that in addition to training, it is important to ensure minimum standards of work and safety on board ships in order to prevent accidents at work, and that therefore all member states should apply uniform provisions in accordance with international safety recommendations and that those standards should also apply to ships operating in eu waters.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it expresses parliament's support for the council decision authorising member states, in the interests of the european union, to become parties to the international maritime organisation convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for fishing vessels. it is true that four eu member states, including lithuania, have already ratified the convention. the convention aims to ensure that personnel on board fishing vessels are qualified (hold appropriate official certificates) and capable of performing their duties (as evidenced by medical examination) in order to minimise the risk to life and/or property or the marine environment in the course of fishing vessel operations at sea. the convention requires that the crew have at least the necessary knowledge of certain subjects and have at least the minimum required period of service on board. the convention also promotes vocational training, thus aiming to establish and maintain an appropriate level of productivity in the fisheries sector and to help reduce risks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i believe it is important to ensure that personnel sailing on fishing vessels are qualified and fit for the job. minimising potential threats to safety and property at sea, and also to the marine environment is necessary; therefore we need to establish and maintain fair performance standards in the fisheries sector.
in writing. ‒ the international convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for fishing vessels (stcw-f convention) was adopted by the international maritime organisation (imo) in london on 7 july 1995. lithuania is one of the four countries that have ratified the convention. the convention aims to ensure that the personnel on board fishing vessels are qualified, promoting vocational training to help reduce risks and maintain an appropriate level of productivity in the sector. i therefore voted in favour of the decision and i call on the other member states to contribute to the common security and to the training of qualified personnel on board fishing vessels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to carry over unused eu funding in 2014 to the next year. the proposal aims to clarify the 'lobbies' of the eu budget for 2014-2017 to allow the €21 billion not used in 2014 to be carried over to 2015-2017 and to ensure the financing of delayed programmes. it is proposed to carry forward eur 21,1 billion of outstanding commitments from certain funds from 2014 to subsequent years in three tranches: eur 16,5 billion of support would be allocated to the commitments of the eu budget in 2015, eur 4,5 billion in 2016 and eur 0,1 billion in 2017. under the consent procedure, parliament can only approve or reject the proposal without amendments, which has already been informally approved by the eu council by unanimity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports the european parliament's amendment of the eu's multiannual financial framework (mff) and recalls that the mff review is a standard procedure carried out at the beginning of each mff period. in this case, the multiannual financial framework shall be adjusted to allow for the carry-over of unused appropriations in 2014 to subsequent years, exceeding the corresponding expenditure ceilings. parliament welcomed the fact that the maximum possible amount of unused appropriations in 2014 was carried over to the financial year 2015 as this would help avoid unfair conditions for certain member states, regions and operational programmes, speed up the implementation of cohesion policy and related results and avoid a concentration of payments at the end of the mff period.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which endorses the partial revision of the multiannual financial framework of the european union, in order to clarify the financial framework and to allow unused funds to be reallocated to the following financial years.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to introduce an automated emergency call system 'ecall' in new passenger car models from 31 march 2018, allowing emergency services to respond more quickly to traffic accidents. in 2014 alone, accidents on eu roads claimed 25 700 lives, and the new system is expected to reduce this number by a tenth. the ecall service will be free of charge and independent of the type or price of the vehicle. in the event of a serious accident, the system will automatically collect the single european emergency telephone number 112 and transmit the incident information to the emergency services. this will allow officials and rescuers to reach the scene of an accident faster, reduce injuries and save more lives, and reduce traffic congestion. it is important to strengthen data protection provisions and to ensure that cars are not constantly tracked. the system shall only be activated in the event of an accident or when the driver has pressed the appropriate button. only the minimum set of data will be sent to the emergency services: vehicle class, type of fuel used, number of passengers, and exact time and location of the incident. i agree with the calls for the commission to assess within three years of that deadline whether it would be appropriate to install such a system on buses and lorries. the rules adopted last june obliged eu countries to have the infrastructure in place to receive and process 'ecall' calls by october 2017.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports the european parliament's proposal to make the 112 ecall system mandatory for all new types of vehicles, starting with m1 and n1 vehicles. the introduction of the ecall service in all vehicles and in all member states has been one of the union's key objectives in road safety since 2003. however, it was found that the eu had not made significant progress in the initial introduction of the voluntary alert system and the eu is now making the introduction of the safety system mandatory for all newly produced cars, which will be mandatory in all eu countries from 31 march 2018.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this directive because in the event of a car accident it will call the emergency phone number and transmit data with the details of the vehicle, the type of fuel used, the time of the accident and the exact location. i believe it will help to save lives and facilitate the work of the emergency services.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal to install an emergency call system in cars. at the same time, i would point out that while this system can help save lives, the commission has provided very little evidence that it can actually do so, especially in a densely populated continent like europe. at the same time, i would urge producers and the relevant control authorities to ensure that the new system does not become an additional burden for buyers, that its cost is kept to a minimum or at least reduced as quickly as possible. it is also essential to ensure that the new positioning system does not become a tool for mass surveillance of citizens, as has already been suspected by a number of different concerned interest groups.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the recommendation by nils torvalds gives reasonable, comprehensive and forward-looking proposals and views on directive 98/70/ec and directive 2009/28/ec relating to the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and promotion of biofuels. it has been a long debating process and i believe that the compromise on the directive is extremely important for the european union in order to achieve its targets on reducing greenhouse emissions and remain a front runner in innovation and sustainable biofuels. this legislation is an important step in the improvement of the current situation. we have to move forward with the regulation and create long-term perspectives for advanced biofuels, which will bring benefits not only for the environment but will also secure investment and the creation of new jobs.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to reduce the carbon footprint of the transport sector. the eu has long promoted the production of biofuels from food crops to reduce carbon dioxide in the transport sector, but the growing use of cereals for fuel could lead to the conversion of forests into arable land and thus further increase carbon dioxide, leading to the decision to switch to biofuels produced from non-food crops and non-food biomass such as litter or algae. the existing rules oblige eu countries to ensure that renewable energy accounts for at least 10% of energy consumed in transport by 2020. the new rules give substance to this obligation by stipulating that the share of first generation biofuels in the transport sector must not exceed 7% of energy consumption by 2020. in addition, fuel suppliers are required to report to the eu member states and the commission the greenhouse gas emissions caused by indirect land use change (indirect land use change current biofuels are mostly produced from crops grown on agricultural land). i agree that the commission should publish data on indirect land-use change pollutants. it is important that eu member states set national targets for the share of smart biofuels in total energy consumption in transport no later than 18 months after the entry into force of the directive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it confirms the european parliament's position on the proposal for a directive which will initiate the transition to a biofuel policy that will significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including indirect land-use change emissions. the 2009 directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources sets a mandatory target of 10% renewable energy in transport by 2020.
in writing. ‒ the i voted yes. biofuels were seen as a viable solution to many problems only a few years ago. we are obliged to produce 20% of all energy consumed in the eu from renewable sources by 2020 and 10% of energy consumed in transport. we believed that the popularisation of biofuels would help to meet the challenges of fossil fuel reduction, climate change, employment, and the development of renewable energy. but today we are already discussing how to limit and not increase the production of biofuels, which use food and feed crops. the scientists warn that the benefits of reducing greenhouse gas emissions associated with the use of biofuels compared to fossil fuels may be lower or negligible, as the amount of emissions from indirect land use change may be high, and sudden spikes in global food prices raise ethical questions about the production of biofuels from food crops. the agreement reached between the commission and parliament seems logical, setting a 7% limit on the total national transport fuel for first-generation biofuels produced from food crops. such drastic policy changes once again show that legislation must be very balanced. it is very important that the proposal protects existing investments until 2020. it is good that we encourage more development of advanced biofuels, which have a lower indirect land-use change than conventional biofuels. this is necessary for viable companies to invest in progress.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to oblige member states to reduce the use of plastic bags, as they pollute the environment and water bodies and damage ecosystems. in 2010, the average european consumed 198 plastic carrier bags, 90% of which were lightweight. in the same year, more than 8 billion plastic bags were thrown away. these figures are increasing every year. this proposal requires member states to choose between two obligations: either to adopt measures to ensure that the average annual consumption of lightweight plastic shopping bags per person is limited to 90 lightweight plastic shopping bags per person by the end of 2019 and to 40 lightweight plastic shopping bags per person by 2025, or to ensure that no free distribution of plastic shopping bags at the point of sale of goods or products is allowed by the end of 2018 until equally effective measures are in place (i.e. taxation). i agree that member states should report annually on the annual consumption of plastic shopping bags. i support the obligation to label biodegradable and compostable plastic shopping bags and the proposal to assess the environmental impact of biodegradable plastic shopping bags aerobically (additives are added to conventional plastic to break it down into micro-particles over time).
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's endorsement of legislation that obliges member states to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastic shopping bags. this will be the first mandatory waste reduction measure at eu level. this environmental objective will be pursued by requiring member states to choose between two obligations: either to adopt measures to ensure that the average annual consumption of lightweight plastic shopping bags per person is no more than 90 by the end of 2019 and no more than 40 by 2025. or ensure that plastic bags are not distributed free of charge at points of sale of goods or products until the end of 2018 until measures of equal effectiveness are in place.
in writing. ‒ plastic bags are a big cross-border environmental problem. i voted in favour because i support the measures to tackle this problem. it will help to reduce the number of plastic bags used.
in writing. - i supported the motion. it is particularly important that the directive stipulates that the reduction measures for plastic bags should be such as not to increase the total amount of packaging. it is not entirely clear whether this provision will be implemented. what will happen if, for example, dairy producers start using thicker packaging because of the disappearance of bags in the supermarkets? another obvious regulatory shortcoming is the 50 micron thickness limit. it will be very easy for manufacturers to make a 51-micron bag that can be used without restrictions. it is also essential that the shortage of plastic bags in the market does not become an incentive for people to shop only in shopping centres. if we take any market where the total amount of packaging is significantly lower than in shopping centres, but lightweight plastic bags are the main form of packaging for goods in the market and their availability facilitates the needs of the buyer and the seller. the need for such a packaging medium will therefore not disappear and it is therefore worthwhile to legalise now an alternative to the eu's conventional plastic bags, which would be completely biodegradable, such as those made from maize starch.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to establish a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying carbon emissions from maritime transport. the projected increase in co2 emissions from eu ships is not in line with eu objectives and will have a negative impact on climate change. at eu level, international maritime transport remains the only transport sector not covered by the eu's greenhouse gas emission reduction commitment. the exact co2 emissions from eu-related maritime transport are not yet known due to insufficient monitoring and reporting requirements for these emissions. i therefore support the need to put in place a robust system for monitoring, reporting and verifying greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it was the european parliament's endorsement of the commission's proposal to set up a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport. in december 2010, the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc) agreed that global warming must not exceed the pre-industrial temperature of 2°c. this is essential to mitigate the negative impacts of human activities on the climate system. the eu institutions agreed back in 2010 that all sectors of the economy should contribute to reducing emissions, including maritime transport, which is expected to increase emissions. the main cause of the increase in emissions is thought to be the increase in demand for maritime transport as global trade grows.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to update the existing framework of european statistical legislation and adapt it to the political needs that european statistics have to meet, which have emerged from recent developments in the world economy. the reliability of statistics is closely linked to the way they are perceived by the public, particularly in the financial markets. in order to ensure that users have confidence in statistics, it is necessary that they strictly comply with technical quality criteria. it is also important to have confidence in the institutions producing the statistics. in these circumstances, particular attention should be paid to the professional independence of statistical authorities and to its legal consolidation.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it was the european parliament's endorsement of the commission's proposed regulation on statistics in europe. reliable statistics are becoming increasingly important for enabling policy-makers, businesses and citizens to make sound and evidence-based decisions. the main concern of all statistical authorities is therefore to ensure that the data produced are of high quality. recent economic developments have once again confirmed the need for additional measures to strengthen the reliability of statistics. economic policy measures and outcomes have been particularly strongly influenced by the mood of global financial markets and the strategies adopted by their participants. the reliability of statistics is closely linked to the way they are perceived by the public, particularly in the financial markets. in order to ensure that users have confidence in statistics, it is necessary that they strictly comply with technical quality criteria. however, it is equally important to have confidence in the institutions producing statistics. in these circumstances, particular attention should be paid to the professional independence of statistical authorities and to its legal consolidation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i think it is very important to strengthen the independence of national statistical authorities from political interference by governments in order to avoid manipulation of statistics.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to establish a multiannual plan for the management and fishing of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea. in 2014, the commission published a multiannual plan for the management and fishing of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea. the new rules take into account the interaction between these species, the impact of cod on herring and sprat stocks and the impact of the latter on cod stocks. i think a multi-species management plan is more effective than one-species management. the plan must ensure the balanced and sustainable exploitation of these resources and the stability of fishing opportunities, while ensuring the livelihoods of fishermen. it is also important to ensure that management is based on the latest scientific advice. the european parliament will continue to negotiate this plan with the council.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is the european parliament's endorsement of the establishment of a multiannual plan for sustainable fisheries in the baltic sea. this plan will take into account the potential for the recovery of certain fish stocks and any fishing restrictions or authorisations will be based on the latest scientific data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it is very important to ensure that the ultimate goal of restoring and maintaining fish stocks above maximum sustainable yield is effectively and fully enforced.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to oblige fishermen to land all the fish they catch. under current rules, fishermen must discard any catch that is not suitable for sale. the new regulation on the common fisheries policy requires that all catches be landed. this requirement will be phased in between 2015 and 2019. if the quota is not allocated or the minimum conservation reference size is not reached, the fishermen will have to land all the unintended by-catches and sell the unsuitable catch. i support the proposal to give fishermen more time to prepare for the requirement not to discard and to land all the fish caught in ports. the multiannual baltic sea fisheries management plan aims to ensure that catches do not exceed their replenishment capacity. it also allows for increased fishing predictability by focusing on a period of several years. the commission has proposed to include non-compliance with the landing obligation in the list of serious infringements and to apply penalty points in the event of such an infringement. however, in order to give fishermen enough time to adapt to it, i support the proposal to implement it only gradually until 2019.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports the amendment of the 7 fisheries policy regulations to bring them into line with the new fisheries policy recently adopted, rather than against it. article 15 of the basic regulation on the common fisheries policy requires that all catches be landed and, under the seven regulations mentioned above, that fishermen discard any catches that are not suitable for marketing. the commission has therefore put forward a proposal for an 'omnibus' regulation, which aims to amend seven regulations simultaneously in order to bring them into line with the common fisheries policy (cfp) framework regulation, while postponing the application of penalties for infringements of the new framework regulation until 2017 in order to ensure an appropriate transition period for fishermen.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i think it is very important to ensure that fisheries operators have legal certainty when applying the landing obligation. i believe this regulation will allow that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european community and russia, which takes account of the accession of croatia to the eu. the partnership and cooperation agreement with the russian federation aims in particular to promote trade and investment, including trade in transport services, and establishes a framework for cooperation in various sectors, limited to general cooperation on economic, financial and technical matters. following the accession of croatia to the eu, it is necessary to renew this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives the european parliament its consent to the protocol to the eu-russia cooperation and partnership agreement to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union on 1 july 2013. the conclusion of this protocol is of a legal-technical nature, ensuring the consistency and legal precision of existing eu international agreements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because following the accession of croatia to the eu it is necessary to update the existing partnership agreement and have legal accuracy.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to assess the implementation of the bologna process. in 1999, 29 european countries signed the bologna declaration, which set the goal of creating a european higher education area by 2010. how and by what means will the single european higher education area be built by choosing a clear and comparable degree system based on two cycles in higher education, introducing a credit system, promoting student and faculty mobility, and ensuring quality in higher education? i agree that today there is a need for even stronger political commitment and cooperation between the countries of the european higher education area. it is important to develop additional tools and new working methods, such as clusters, to help countries in difficulty to make better progress and to encourage others to reach even higher targets. it is also necessary to exchange best practices, to make greater use of the bologna network of experts and to involve the academic community more. i agree that the paradigm of education should be shifted from what is taught to what students need to learn. there is also a need for continuous investment and a more efficient use of available resources.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's way of taking the next steps towards creating a single european higher education area. in 1999, european countries signed the bologna declaration, which set the goal of creating a european higher education area (ehea) by 2010. the aim was and is to provide students with a wider and more transparent choice of high-quality educational opportunities and to create a simplified process for internal and external recognition by the participating national higher education systems. during this time, all 47 members of the bologna process have carried out major reforms of their education systems. however, parliament notes that much remains to be done to overcome the current challenges facing the european higher education system. parliament considered that it was important to focus education more on students and results, and to strengthen links between higher education and research by creating better conditions for dialogue between scientists and society and promoting the use of technological innovation for teaching and learning.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i strongly support the aim of providing students with the possibility of a wider and more transparent choice of high-quality education to choose from. it is very important that the bologna process helps to converge educational systems by developing common rules of cooperation in order to improve the quality of higher education.
in writing. ‒ the bologna process and its implementation have come a long way, with many member states implementing reforms, updating education systems, introducing changes. however, today europe still faces challenges: high youth unemployment, people not ready for the labour market, the lack of coordination between the education systems of the member states. i therefore advocate the need to renew the bologna process with an emphasis on its adaptation to changing challenges and on ensuring the quality and transparency of the european higher education area. i agree that the educational paradigm should shift from what is taught to what students need to learn, and therefore i believe that the member states and the european commission should continue the process by taking account of changes and adapting better to current needs.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at the distribution of european cinema. in europe, marketing and advertising often account for less than 1% of total production costs. and the u.s. film marketing budget is not behind the production costs. moreover, most european films are shown almost exclusively in their country of origin. i agree that public funding needs to be better balanced and should be more focused on developing european film audiences and increasing support for activities such as project development, promotion and international distribution. the creative europe programme, with a budget of eur 1.5 billion for 2014-2020, is a key source of funding for the audiovisual sector. more than half of the budget of this programme is allocated to the media sub-programme, which supports the development, distribution, training and innovation of european cinema. the commission notes that the financial guarantee scheme, which will be operational in 2016, will enable cinemas to obtain bank loans.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's position on the development of european cinema in the digital age. the communication notes that films are both cultural assets and economic goods, making a significant contribution to european economic growth and employment. in this way, european cinema contributes to the development of a european identity in order to convey the diversity of cultures and languages, encourages and facilitates cultural exchanges between citizens and contributes to the formation and development of critical thinking among citizens. parliament therefore encourages the european film industry to develop innovative services, new business models and distribution channels in order to increase the cross-border availability of european films in the union and, on the other hand, to provide an even greater diversity of films for audiences across the union. the communication also recognises that the illegal downloading of creative works has a negative impact on the creative cycle and on the rights of creators and considers that this needs to be addressed by a wider quality legitimate offer and by raising awareness among young people.
in writing. ‒ the european union is the only part of the world where forest area has been steadily growing for the last two decades. over 40% of the eu territory is covered by forests and wooded lands. our daily lives are affected by it in many different ways, both in rural and highly urbanised areas. apart of wood, which is certainly the most common type of energy resource extracted from forests, forest products and by-products are also used in the manufacturing process of medicine, cosmetics and detergents. what the eu needs now is an effective and sustainable forest management system that would be able to address efficiently the challenges that forest-related industries are currently facing. it is essential to boost the potential of our forests and encourage rural development, innovation in forest based industries, and resilience to climate change. but even though it is crucial to have an active forest management, we must not forget that due to different types of forests and forest ownership, legally binding rules would restrict forest product-related markets. i believe that the köstinger report underlines all these issues and i am in favour of it for exactly this reason.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to evaluate and improve the new eu forest strategy. the eu forestry sector has created 3.5 million jobs. 451 820 forest-related enterprises increase economic growth by 7% while only 60% of the annual growth in forests is cut down. this proposal further strengthens the social, economic and ecological role of forests and the forestry sector and focuses on sustainable wood raw materials as an important european resource. i agree with the suggestions that the new eu forest strategy should focus on better coordination, that forestry and forests should be given greater prominence in the individual european strategy papers and that a more coherent approach should be achieved. this divergence of approach within the commission could be avoided by strengthening the standing committee on forests. however, it is important to remember that forest owners and foresters cannot be burdened with more bureaucracy.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it presents the european parliament's position that the social, economic and ecological role of forests and the forestry sector should be further strengthened, with a focus on sustainable wood as an important european resource. the report notes that forests and forestry are a good complementary pillar of the economy, and at the same time the best guarantor of quality of life, sustainability, jobs and added value. the forestry sector, which has created more than 3.5 million jobs, is the third largest employer in europe, just behind the metal and food industries. wood is an important resource; its economic importance for rural areas is high. the careful management and management of european forests by forestry companies and more than 16 million forest owners ensures their sustainable ecological, economic and social functioning.
in writing. – i voted in favour because we need active and sustainable forest management if we want to boost the potential of forests in the eu. in addition, i also think that it is important to leave the practical management of forests to the discretion of member states.
in writing. ‒ the i supported this proposal. it is good that we do not give up forestry to the eu and that each member state continues to manage it independently. of course, some principles must be common to the eu as a whole. the document should be improved by emphasising the importance of forests as one of the key elements of the rural landscape. in many western european countries, the natural forest landscape has already been lost. it is possible to allow each country to choose how to improve the landscape (regulating the number of logging, seeking greater forest diversity, etc.), but the overall objective must be to 'naturalise the landscape of forests, thus increasing their attractiveness'; to assess the role of forests as providers of ecosystem services and to give material expression to this. in scientific literature, ecosystem services are defined as the services that ecosystems provide to humanity (reduction of air pollution, regulation of climate and groundwater levels, favourable living environment, forest resources that we use, etc.); the need for the forestry sector to adapt to climate change. forests cannot change as fast as climate change is changing, and this is causing the disappearance of many different tree species in many parts of europe. it facilitates the spread of diseases and pests, and extreme weather events make forests even more vulnerable. forest adaptation measures should be included in every forest management plan. we should develop european forests that are ready to face the challenges of climate change to achieve the highest possible degree of naturalness of forests (diverse and diverse forests).
in the light of the changing security situation in europe, due to new conflicts and upheavals in the immediate neighbourhood, the growing threat of radicalism, violence and terrorism, the updating of the european union's internal security strategy represents a major challenge in order to eliminate dangerous processes that are taking on new characteristics. the priority areas to be addressed include cybersecurity, trafficking in human beings, the fight against terrorism, organised crime, money laundering and corruption. however, even in this difficult period, the strategy should uphold the fundamental human rights and freedoms: privacy, the right to have one's own opinion and to express it publicly. the new strategy and new challenges cannot lead to the unjustified total surveillance and suspicion of every citizen, the control of all electronic means of communication and the prejudice against one or another citizen's loyalty to his or her country and to the idea of a europe of peoples.
i support the commission's commitment to increase pre-financing, as this should help member states to tackle youth employment issues more quickly and effectively. we need to help young people to get a job, to continue their education or to do an internship. as the latest reports and existing practice show, not all member states are able to implement the youth employment initiative due to certain economic, financial and sometimes possibly political will gaps, so this proposal is a major step forward in investing in young people. in the case of youth employment measures, particular attention should certainly be paid to young people with a lower level of education, young people with disabilities or those with certain health problems. at the same time, i would like to point out that long-term youth unemployment or the inability to find a suitable job has a significant negative impact not only on the economy but also on young people themselves, which can lead to mental and physical health problems. i therefore call on the member states once again to make the most of the european union's advance payment assistance.
we are discussing today one of the most important problems facing the european union today. this is the support of the action programmes that benefit the youth employment initiative. since the beginning of the economic crisis in 2008, the level of youth unemployment has become an urgent challenge not only for the institutions of the european union but also for member states such as lithuania, which have experienced a sharp increase in labour emigration. this is a negative development from a national economic point of view. this requires urgent action, as the unemployment rate among young people has reached a dramatic level and is continuing to rise. the european union must share financial resources with the member states as soon as possible in order to improve this situation. the youth employment initiative is one such measure, as it provides an additional opportunity for the regions of europe most affected by unemployment. the provision of increased funding by the european commission for job creation will undoubtedly be an important support for the action programmes in 2015. it is therefore the duty of the european parliament to facilitate the implementation of the rules under discussion as soon as possible. there is no doubt that the european commission's additional request to encourage member states to use the new, increased allocations to finance projects in the regions most in need should receive the unconditional support of parliament. let us remember that the effectiveness of this support depends in particular on supporting initiatives aimed at young people, those who are leaving school and those entering the labour market.
in writing. first of all, i would like to express my sorrow and regret at the tragic loss of life in the mediterranean. we cannot ignore these sad tragedies and we must find solutions to save lives, to share the responsibility of accepting and protecting migrants among member states. the european council did not establish a robust eu-wide solidarity mechanism, which would include mandatory transfers from one member state to another and transfers from one member state to another in the event of an emergency. this implies a review of the dublin iii regulation and the establishment of fair allocations between member states based on gdp, size and population, unemployment rates, the number of refugees already present and, to a certain extent, the personal preferences of migrants. in the meantime, member states should fully apply the criteria set out in the dublin iii regulation, such as unaccompanied children, family reunification and discretionary reservations. the european parliament welcomes the european council's commitment to reinforce eu operation triton and increase its funding and resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it confirms the european parliament's discharge for the 2013 eu general budget to the commission and the executive agencies. in its discharge, parliament also set out its observations to the commission and reservations concerning agriculture, the regions, employment and social affairs.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to provide pre-financing for action programmes supported under the youth employment initiative. the youth employment initiative mechanism, which provides opportunities for regions where unemployment among 15-25 year olds is above 25%, has not been sufficiently exploited by the member states. one reason is that there is not enough public funding to start projects. the commission decided to act quickly to mobilise the eur 1 billion. this is not new money, it was already provided under the youth employment initiative. the proposal aims to include this amount in the planned pre-financing from 2015. this increase in the financial envelope will be used to significantly increase the pre-financing of the 2015 operational programmes, which will provide a new impetus for the member states. increase in the financing rate from 1% to 30%
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and welcome the commission's commitment to advance funding for youth employment programmes. the youth unemployment rate has been dramatically high for several years and is rising steadily. the european union has proposed a number of mechanisms to member states to combat this negative phenomenon, which affects our younger generations. one such instrument is the european union's youth employment initiative, which aims to set policy objectives for the youth guarantee in regions with the highest levels of youth unemployment. unfortunately, this mechanism, which provides opportunities for regions where unemployment among 15-25 year olds exceeds 25%, has not been sufficiently exploited by the member states. one reason for this misuse is that there is not enough public funding to launch projects to offer young people jobs, traineeships or training. member states with the highest levels of youth unemployment are also those with the greatest difficulties in finding common funding. to get started on these crucial projects, the european commission decided to act quickly to mobilise €1 billion.
in writing. ‒ the youth unemployment rate has been dramatically high for several years. despite the fact that the eu has established a mechanism to address youth unemployment, primarily through the youth employment initiative, the member states with the highest youth unemployment rates, above 25%, have not yet been able to make full use of the existing instruments. one reason is the lack of funds needed to co-finance projects and programmes. in view of these problems and the urgency of the matter, the european commission's initiative to allocate eur 1 billion for the financing of youth employment measures at an early stage of projects is timely and should be implemented as soon as possible. i therefore support the proposal for an advance payment to help take the necessary action to reduce the problems of unemployment and youth employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to repeal council regulation no 3030/93 on common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries. in recent years, the eu has applied only the bilateral textile trade agreements with russia and serbia. following the accession of russia to the wto and the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia, regulation no 3030/93 lost its primary purpose. therefore, in order to ensure legal certainty, this proposal provides for the repeal of council regulation (eec) no 3030/93.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports the commission's proposal to repeal the eu regulation adopted in 1993 laying down common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries. this regulation was only applicable to third countries with which the eu had concluded bilateral agreements, signed protocols or concluded other agreements. such were russia, serbia, and china. the entry into force of other legal relations with these countries (accession of russia to the wto, entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia) has deprived the latter of its primary purpose.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because it seeks only to codify the existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports the commission's proposal for the codification of the 1973 eu regulation on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway. this procedure is in line with the 1994 interinstitutional agreement on the accelerated official codification of texts of legal acts. the notification states that the proposal is intended only to codify existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because it seeks only to codify the existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports the commission's proposal for a 2006 eu regulation codifying certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of albania, of the other part. this procedure is in line with the 1994 interinstitutional agreement on the accelerated official codification of texts of legal acts. the notification states that the proposal is intended only to codify existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ the i supported the proposal to support the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and albania. not only policy analysts but politicians themselves agree that the prospect of eu membership is one of the most effective means of promoting the modernisation of states and societies, the implementation of good governance principles and the effective functioning of human rights mechanisms. with a clear eu membership perspective, albania has not only successfully engaged in peace and stability processes, but is also rapidly modernising. of course, things are not perfect yet - as we can see from the progress of the accession negotiations and the limited opportunities for the eu to integrate new member states. nevertheless, the stabilisation and association agreement is an important mechanism for promoting albania's rapprochement with the eu and the development of an area of european good governance and respect for the fundamental values, whether or not albanian citizens decide to join the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because it seeks only to codify the existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports the commission's proposal for a 2008 eu regulation codifying certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part. this procedure is in line with the 1994 interinstitutional agreement on the accelerated official codification of texts of legal acts. the notification states that the proposal is intended only to codify existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ i woted for this new proposed regulation of agreement between eu of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part, because it will supersede the various acts incorporated in the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because it seeks only to codify the existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports the commission's proposal for a 2002 eu regulation codifying certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part. this procedure is in line with the 1994 interinstitutional agreement on the accelerated official codification of texts of legal acts. the notification states that the proposal is intended only to codify existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to amend the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, in order to facilitate the implementation of the facilitated instruments.
in writing. ‒ the i supported the proposal to support the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. not only policy analysts but politicians themselves agree that the prospect of eu membership is one of the most effective means of promoting the modernisation of states and societies, the implementation of good governance principles and the effective functioning of human rights mechanisms. with a clear eu membership perspective, macedonia has not only successfully engaged in peace and stability processes, but has also addressed the root causes of internal instability through effective, inclusive and democratic processes and is rapidly modernising. of course, things are not perfect yet - as we can see from the progress of the accession negotiations and the limited opportunities for the eu to integrate new member states. nevertheless, the stabilisation and association treaty is an important mechanism for promoting closer relations between the octs and the eu and for developing an area of good governance and respect for the fundamental values of european integration, whether or not the octs citizens decide to join the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because it seeks only to codify the existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports the commission's proposal for a codification of the 1998 eu regulation on the application of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to certain horizontal state aid. this procedure is in line with the 1994 interinstitutional agreement on the accelerated official codification of texts of legal acts. the notification states that the proposal is intended only to codify existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. - i voted yes. this proposal is of a legal nature and its adoption will allow the institutions concerned to pursue the objectives set more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because it seeks only to codify the existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports the commission's proposal for a 1999 eu regulation codifying the detailed rules for the application of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. this procedure is in line with the 1994 interinstitutional agreement on the accelerated official codification of texts of legal acts. the notification states that the proposal is intended only to codify existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. - i voted yes. this proposal is of a legal nature and its adoption will allow the institutions concerned to pursue the objectives set more effectively.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the commission should take account of the european parliament's comments on the more efficient management and use of eu funds in the eu member states. the european court of auditors regularly notes in its special reports that the commission's monitoring of the proper and efficient use of eu funds is lacking in the management of eu funds. in the absence of commission monitoring, it is not possible to assess the extent to which the financial support from the european union contributes to the achievement of national and union objectives in the various policy areas. the commission should also ensure that it receives consistent and reliable information from the member states on the use of eu funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's response to the court's special reports on several eu policy areas, such as the activities of eurostat, eu development assistance to central asia, the effectiveness of the environmental component of the life programme, the work of the single audit and the national audit bodies used by the commission in cohesion policy, eu climate finance in the context of external aid, the reliability of the results of member states' checks on agricultural expenditure, the effectiveness of eu-supported urban public transport projects, the effectiveness of the management of preferential trade agreements, etc.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision because the information provided shows that the budgets of the institutions mentioned in the document were implemented in 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european development funds for 2013. the court of auditors noted in its report that the final annual accounts of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the year 2013 present the financial position of these funds correctly in all material respects as at 31 december 2013 and that the results of their operations and cash flows and developments in net assets for the financial year ended on that date are consistent with the provisions of the financial regulation of the eff and with internationally recognised public sector accounting standards. there are therefore no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it confirms the european parliament's discharge for the 2013 budgets of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds. parliament welcomed the court of auditors' opinion that the final annual accounts of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for 2013 presented the financial position of these edfs correctly in all material respects as at 31 december 2013 and that the results of their operations and cash flows and the evolution of their net assets for the financial year ended on that date comply with the provisions of the edf financial regulation and internationally recognised public sector accounting standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document because it confirms the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to be given to the european parliament in respect of the implementation of the 2013 budget. the audit has not identified any material deficiencies in the areas relating to parliament and therefore there is no reason to reject the discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it confirms the european parliament's discharge in respect of the european parliament's 2013 budget. in this resolution, parliament also analysed in detail the court's report for its own part and reiterated that a move to a single seat for parliament would save a lot of eu funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document confirming the implementation of the european parliament's budget for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to postpone the adoption of the 2013 discharge report to the european council and the council. year after year, parliament reiterates that effective budgetary control can only be achieved through cooperation between parliament and the council and that the main elements of this cooperation must include formal meetings between representatives of the council and parliament's committee on budgetary control, the replies to questions put by committee members in the written questionnaire and the submission, when requested, of documents used as supporting documents in budgetary control. in the absence of such cooperation with the council, parliament cannot take an informed decision on discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it postponed the adoption by the european parliament of its decision confirming to the secretary-general of the council that the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. although the court's report notes that the payments for the year related to administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies were free from material error and no significant deficiencies were found in the areas audited. parliament is concerned, however, that the under-utilisation rate remains high in almost all categories of expenditure and recalls its call for the establishment of key performance indicators to improve budget planning in the coming years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to postpone the discharge of the european council and the council for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european external action service (eeas) for the financial year 2013. the court notes that the eeas continued to implement its budget in its third financial year and that no major errors were found. there are therefore no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it confirms to the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy that the budget of the european external action service for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. parliament also welcomed the fact that the european external action service (eeas) continued to implement its budget in its third financial year and that the court of auditors did not find any significant errors. noted that progress had been made in correcting the errors identified in the previous year and endorsed the recommendations for further improvements in the court's annual report.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the discharge for the european external action service for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the financial year 2013 to be given to the court of justice of the european union (the 'court of justice'). the court of auditors noted in its 2013 annual report that the audit on human resources and procurement issues for the european court of justice did not reveal any significant weaknesses. on the basis of its audit work, the court of auditors concluded that, overall, no material error had been detected in the payments related to administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2013. there are therefore no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the registrar of the court of justice that the court of justice's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. the parliament also noted that in 2013 the general court received 790 new cases, examined 702 cases and had 1325 cases pending, thus overall the number of judicial proceedings is higher than in 2012; it also noted that the duration of the judicial proceedings was somewhat reduced. parliament noted that the creation of the ninth chamber did not contribute to the efficiency of the general court in 2013, but nevertheless reiterated its position that the human resources of the general court should be increased.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget for the court of auditors. the external auditor pricewaterhousecoopers sar indicated that no significant deficiencies had been identified in the areas audited and that there were therefore no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the secretary-general of the court of auditors that the court's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. in its report, the parliament also noted that, in order to apply to the court the same principles of transparency and accountability as to its own audited bodies, the audit of the court's annual report is carried out by an external auditor pricewaterhousecoopers sar. it also took note of the auditor's opinion that the financial statements present a true and fair view of the financial situation of the european court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget for the european economic and social committee (hereinafter 'the esc'). the court of auditors stated in its 2013 annual report that the areas audited related to the eesc's human resources and procurement did not reveal any significant weaknesses. on the basis of its audit work, the court concluded that, overall, there were no significant errors in the payments relating to administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2013. there are therefore no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee that the committee's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. parliament welcomed the fact that the court of auditors indicated in its 2013 annual report that the areas audited related to human resources and public procurement of the european economic and social committee (eesc) were free from significant weaknesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for 2013 to be given to the committee of the regions (hereinafter referred to as 'the committee'). the court of auditors stated in its 2013 annual report that no significant deficiencies were identified in the areas audited relating to human resources and procurement for the committee of the regions. on the basis of its audit work, the court concluded that, overall, there were no significant errors in the payments relating to administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2013. there are therefore no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the secretary-general of the committee of the regions that the committee of the regions' budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. the parliament welcomed the fact that the court of auditors indicated in its 2013 annual report that no significant weaknesses had been identified in the areas audited related to human resources and public procurement of the committee of the regions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document confirming the implementation of the committee of the regions' budget for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european ombudsman for the financial year 2013 . in its report on the 2013 financial statements of the ombudsman's office ('the court's report'), the court of auditors stated that it had obtained sufficient assurances that the ombudsman's annual financial statements were reliable and that the transactions reflected therein were legal and regular, and that there were therefore no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the european ombudsman that the budget of the european ombudsman for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. parliament noted the continuous improvement in financial planning and monitoring and called for these efforts to be continued in the next budgetary period. the parliament endorsed the ombudsman's 2013 annual management plan, which includes a set of key performance indicators (kpis) to measure the performance of the institution in order to measure the objectives pursued.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document confirming that the 2013 budget of the european ombudsman has been implemented.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the european data protection supervisor that the budget of the european data protection supervisor for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. parliament welcomed the fact that the follow-up audit carried out by the internal audit office of the supervisor in june 2013 found that work on implementing most of the proposed measures and recommendations related to the administrative procedure had been completed and therefore decided that no specific recommendations were required after 31 december 2013.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this sockument confirming that the budget of the european data protection supervisor for 2013 has been implemented.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for 2013 concerning the activities, financial management and control of the eu agencies. the number of agencies has increased significantly over the past decade, from 3 in 2000 to 32 in 2013. it is particularly important to ensure the autonomy of the agencies and to ensure the effective implementation of their role - to assist the commission in the management of union programmes on behalf of the union.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's opinion on the discharge for the 2013 financial year of the agencies of the european union and sets out the general comments on their activities, financial management and control. notes the importance of the tasks carried out by the agencies and their direct impact on the daily lives of union citizens, as well as the autonomy of the agencies, in particular those carrying out regulatory and independent information collection functions; it also recalled that the main reason for the creation of the agencies was the objective of carrying out independent technical or scientific assessments. it therefore called for greater use of this expertise and capacity at the relevant stages of the european semester policy process and underlined the contribution of the agencies to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document, which draws attention to the importance of the tasks carried out by eu agencies and their direct impact on the daily lives of union citizens, as well as to the activities of agencies in particular those carrying out a regulatory and independent information gathering function. i welcome the proposals made to make the agencies more efficient, in particular by improving their effective communication with citizens and by ensuring that the priorities of the eu as a whole are better reflected in the operational programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the financial year 2013 for the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer). the court of auditors stated in its report on acer's 2013 financial statements ('the court of auditors' report') that it had obtained sufficient assurances that acer's annual financial statements are reliable and that the transactions reflected therein are legal and regular and that there are no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators that the agency's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. notes that the final annual accounts of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators contain the data specified in the annex to the court of auditors' report and therefore supports the closure of the accounts of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013;
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which confirms that the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013 has been implemented.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget for the office of the european regulators for electronic communications (hereinafter referred to as 'the erc'). the court of auditors stated in its report on the 2013 financial statements of the erc ('the court of auditors' report') that it had obtained sufficient assurances that the annual financial statements of the erc are reliable and that the transactions reflected therein are legal and regular and that there are no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the management committee of the office of the european regulators for electronic communications that the office's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. the european parliament welcomed the fact that the court of auditors' report indicates that three comments made in the court of auditors' 2011 report, which were marked 'in progress' in the court of auditors' 2012 report, have been corrected and that all comments marked 'completed' in the court of auditors' 2013 report. furthermore, it indicates that the ten comments made in the court's 2012 report have also been corrected and eight comments are now marked as 'completed' and two as 'in progress'.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal confirming that the office of the european regulators for electronic communications has implemented the 2013 budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget for the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (hereinafter the 'cdt'). in its report on the 2013 financial statements of the cdt ('the court's report'), the court of auditors stated that it had obtained sufficient assurance that the cdt's annual financial statements were reliable and that the transactions reflected therein were legal and regular, and that there were therefore no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the director of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union that the centre's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. parliament welcomed the fact that the court's report indicated that two corrective actions taken in the light of last year's comments were marked as 'in progress'. the information provided by the centre confirms that it has drawn up an action plan to reduce administrative costs, identified in the areas of human resources, financial procedures, it and infrastructure, indicating that the centre has reached the threshold for reducing administrative costs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision confirming the budget execution of the eu translation office for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget for the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop). in its report on cedefop's 2013 financial statements ('the court's report'), the court of auditors stated that it had obtained sufficient assurance that cedefop's annual financial statements were reliable and that the transactions reflected therein were legal and regular, and that there were therefore no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the director of the european centre for the development of vocational training that the centre's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. parliament welcomed the fact that the court's report indicated that two comments made in the court's 2011 report, which were marked as 'implemented' in the court's 2012 report, had led to corrective actions and that both recommendations were now marked as 'completed' in the court's report. notes with concern that the court of auditors' audit findings on the annual accounts of the european food safety authority (efsa) for the financial year 2012 were based on the information in the annual accounts of the european food safety authority (efsa) for the financial year 2012;
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision confirming that the european centre for the development of vocational training has implemented the budget in 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european police college (cepol) for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors stated in its report on cepol's 2013 financial statements ('the court's report') that it had obtained sufficient assurances that cepol's annual financial statements were reliable and that the operations reflected therein were legal and regular, and that there were therefore no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the director of the european police college that the college's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. parliament welcomed the fact that information on the impact of the college's activities is made available to union citizens through the annual publication of strategic documents, including the annual report, on the college's website, as well as through other means of communication such as the publication of videos and dedicated website sections. the commission notes that the financial support provided by the hfsf to the bank was limited to the amount of eur [...] million.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision confirming that the european police college has implemented the 2013 budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european aviation safety agency (easa) for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors, in its report on easa's 2013 financial statements ('the court's report'), stated that it had obtained sufficient assurances that easa's annual financial statements are reliable and that the transactions reflected therein are legal and regular and that there are no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the european aviation safety agency that the agency's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. parliament welcomed the fact that information on the impact of the agency's activities on union citizens is provided on the agency's website through the annual publication of strategic documents, including the annual joint report, the annual security review and the work programme. i the inclusion of information and statistics on the management of conflicts of interest in its 2013 annual activity report, which resulted in the publication of all cvs and declarations of interests of the executive director, directors and heads of department on the agency's website on 1 december 2014, as requested by the discharge authority in 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision confirming that the european aviation safety agency is closed for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget for the european asylum support office (easo). the court of auditors stated in its report on easo's 2013 financial statements ('the court's report') that it had obtained sufficient assurance that easo's annual financial statements were reliable and that the transactions reflected therein were legal and regular, and that there were therefore no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the european asylum support office that the office's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. however, parliament notes that the budgetary needs were overestimated by 13% and that the commitment appropriations carried over represented 24% of the total commitment appropriations, 13% of which were not based on a legal commitment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft closing of the accounts of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the financial year 2013 to the european banking authority (eba). the court of auditors stated in its report on the eba's 2013 financial statements ('the court's report') that it had obtained sufficient assurances that the eba's annual financial statements are reliable and that the transactions reflected therein are legal and regular and that there are no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the european banking authority that the authority's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. parliament also confirmed that a communication strategy had been drawn up on the basis of the authority's key stakeholder survey in order to simplify the existing section of the authority's website and to create new content so that easy-to-understand information was not restricted to professionals. the commission also notes that a consumer portal has been set up on the website, which provides easy-to-understand information on how to lodge complaints about financial institutions, as well as general advice on personal finance issues.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision confirming that the european banking authority has implemented the 2013 budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors stated in its report on the financial statements of the ecdc for 2013 ('the court of auditors' report') that it had obtained sufficient assurance that the annual financial statements of the ecdc were reliable and that the transactions reflected therein were legal and regular and that there were no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the director of the european centre for disease prevention and control that the centre's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. on the basis of the information provided by the centre, parliament also confirmed that information on the impact of the centre's activities on union citizens is provided on the centre's website through the publication of several types of documents, including press releases, newsletters, research results and special reports. the cvs and declarations of interests of the centre's administrative board, advisory forum and senior management are also published on the centre's website, which increases transparency in the centre's management.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the closure of the accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2013 ('the court of auditors' report'), stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european chemicals agency were reliable and that the transactions underlying them were legal and regular, and that there were therefore no grounds for not granting discharge for the 2013 budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the european chemicals agency that the agency's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal approving the budget of the european chemicals agency for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european environment agency (hereinafter 'the eea') for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors stated in its report on the eaa's 2013 financial statements ('the court's report') that it had obtained sufficient assurances that the eaa's annual financial statements are reliable and that the transactions reflected therein are legal and regular and that there are no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the european environment agency that the agency's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. notes that the court of auditors' annual audit found no significant problems with the carry-overs at the level of 2013; notes that the agency respected the principles of annual periodicity and timely implementation of the budget; it also welcomed the commitment of the agency to regularly review its staff and organisational structure in order to ensure that its work is carried out and its tasks are tackled in the most efficient way.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision to approve the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013, as the audit found no significant problems preventing the approval of the implementation of the budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european fisheries control agency (efca) for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors stated in its report on the annual accounts of the authority for the financial year 2013 ('the court of auditors' report') that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the authority's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions covered by them were legal and regular, and that there were therefore no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the european fisheries control agency that the agency's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. on the basis of the information provided by the agency, parliament also confirmed that information on the impact of its activities on union citizens is made available on its website, in particular through the annual publication of strategic documents such as the agency's annual activity report or the results of control and inspection campaigns. notes with satisfaction that the agency has implemented the transfers forecasting procedure in order to reduce the level of carry-overs and calls on the agency to continue to seek ways to reduce the level of carry-overs and to avoid unplanned carry-overs;
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision to close the accounts of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2013. the experts give a positive assessment of the quality and importance of the tasks carried out by the agency and welcome the efficiency, consistency and very good results achieved by the agency since its establishment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget for the european food safety authority (hereinafter 'efsa'). the court of auditors stated in its report on the 2013 annual accounts of efsa ('the court of auditors' report') that it had obtained sufficient assurances that the annual accounts of efsa were reliable and that the transactions covered by them were legal and regular, and that there were therefore no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the european food safety authority that the authority's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. on the basis of the information provided by the office, parliament confirmed that the monitoring of the level of budget implementation and the overall level of carry-overs would be further improved in order to ensure that such carry-overs are in line with the budget implementation objectives set for the field of activity. the regular holding of discussions with the office's stakeholders parliament noted the steps taken towards transparency, such as the public consultation on the initiative transformation to an open efsa and the establishment of efsa expert groups.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european institute for gender equality (eige) for the financial year 2013. in its report on the 2013 financial statements of eige ('the court's report'), the court of auditors stated that it had obtained sufficient assurance that the annual financial statements of eige were reliable and that the transactions reflected therein were legal and regular and that there were no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the director of the european institute for gender equality that the institute's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. on the basis of the information provided by the institute, parliament confirmed that information on the impact of the institute's activities on union citizens is provided on the institute's website, is updated and has become more accessible through social media. it also noted that, in order to improve procurement planning and monitoring procedures, the institute has established a monitoring tool to help meet the deadlines set for each stage of the annual procurement procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2013, which emphasises the importance of the institute for equal opportunities and the fight against discrimination. the document also calls for the institute to ensure better interaction with the legislative authorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget for the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa). the court of auditors stated in its report on the 2013 financial statements of eiopa ('the court's report') that it had obtained sufficient assurance that the annual financial statements of the eit were reliable and that the transactions reflected therein were legal and regular, and that there were therefore no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority that the authority's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. on the basis of the information provided by the authority, the parliament confirmed that it had strengthened its internal support capacity for the conduct of public procurement procedures clearly defined the roles and responsibilities of the procurement officers and operational staff and organised training of various types for all categories of staff concerned. it also adopted rules on the management of conflicts of interest, which were revised on the basis of the commission's guidelines on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest in eu decentralised agencies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors stated in its report on the eit's 2013 financial statements ('the court's report') that it had obtained sufficient assurance that the eit's annual financial statements were reliable and that the operations reflected therein were legal and regular and that there were no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it postponed the european parliament's decision to approve the execution of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013 to the director of the institute. the parliament postponed its decision because the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, stated that it had received reasonable assurances that the institute's annual accounts were reliable but that it had not been able to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the financial transactions reflected therein.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision to postpone the discharge procedure for the 2013 budget of the european institute of innovation and technology.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget for the european medicines agency (hereinafter 'ema'). the court of auditors stated in its report on the ema's 2013 financial statements ('the court of auditors' report') that it had obtained sufficient assurances that the ema's annual financial statements were reliable and that the transactions reflected therein were legal and regular and that there were no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the european medicines agency that the agency's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. parliament welcomed the fact that the agency had recently taken several initiatives to improve its relations with union citizens, such as the publication of strategic documents, including public overviews, summaries of meetings, newsletters and annual reports. notes also that an it communication tool 'public health communication' has been developed to provide the public with basic information on medicinal products, mainly on their safety; in this context, the agency was encouraged to organise a public consultation on pharmacovigilance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision to approve the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget for the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (ennsc). in its report on the ennsc's 2013 financial statements ('the court's report'), the court of auditors stated that it had obtained sufficient assurance that the ennsc's annual financial statements were reliable and that the transactions reflected therein were legal and regular, and that there were therefore no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the director of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction that the centre's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. on the basis of the information provided by the centre, parliament confirms that it has implemented a multi-pronged process and mechanism to ensure the proper ex ante and ex post verification and control of expenditure related to grants supporting cooperation in the operation of the reitox network. notes also that these measures include detailed ex ante controls, written instructions to the national contact points of the reitox network, specific briefings on relevant issues, an annual analysis of the financial statements of each national contact point and ex post on-the-spot checks;
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision confirming that the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction has implemented the budget in 2013. this centre has implemented a multi-pronged process and measures to ensure proper checks and controls on expenditure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the european maritime safety agency that the agency's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. on the basis of the information provided by the agency, parliament confirms that the analysis of internal administrative expenditure has led to the automation of some human resources processes and to simplified financial monitoring and reporting by means of automated tools.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision to close the accounts of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european union agency for network and information security (enisa) for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors stated in its report on enisa's 2013 financial statements ('the court's report') that it had obtained sufficient assurances that enisa's 2013 financial statements were reliable and that the transactions reflected therein were legal and regular, and that there were therefore no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the european union agency for network and information security that the agency's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. in its report, the parliament noted that in 2013 the agency's operational staff was relocated to athens, while the administrative staff remained in heraklion. welcomes the fact that the court of auditors has concluded that the agency's administrative costs could have been reduced by concentrating all its staff in one place and calls on the agency to develop a strategy to address this issue effectively;
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision confirming that the european union agency for network and information security has implemented the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european railway agency for the financial year 2013 hereinafter referred to as 'the discharge' (era). the court of auditors stated in its report on the 2013 annual accounts of the authority ('the court of auditors' report') that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the authority's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions covered by them were legal and regular and that there were no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the european railway agency that the agency's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. welcomes the fact that the agency, in agreement with the commission, has prepared a partial revision of its rules on the recruitment of staff and the implementation of services provisionally adopted, with a view to reducing the negative impact of the current rules on the agency's activities and providing for greater flexibility in terms of the duration of staff contracts, as well as to reducing the risk of disruption and loss of knowledge in the event of a major change of personnel;
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the document certifying that the european railway agency has implemented the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the financial year 2013 to the european securities and markets authority (esma). the court of auditors stated in its report on esma's 2013 financial statements ('the court's report') that it had obtained sufficient assurances that the authority's annual financial statements were reliable and that the transactions reflected therein were legal and regular and that there were no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the european securities and markets authority that the authority's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. parliament welcomed the fact that the authority had included staff and budget planning in its annual work plans, in order to take account of the priorities of the whole organisation and to reallocate staff to other tasks where possible. notes that the court of auditors' audit findings on the financial statements of the union institutions and bodies, the annual accounts of the european investment bank and the european investment fund for the financial year 2012 were updated in accordance with the annual accounts of the european investment bank for the financial year 2012, as well as the court of auditors' audit findings on the financial statements of the european investment bank for the financial year 2012;
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision confirming that the european securities and markets authority has implemented the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european training foundation (etf) for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors stated in its report on the 2013 financial statements of the etf ('the court of auditors' report') that it had obtained sufficient assurance that the annual financial statements of the etf were reliable and that the transactions reflected therein were legal and regular and that there were no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the director of the european training foundation that the foundation's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. parliament welcomed the conclusion of the agreement with the authorities of the piedmont region (italy) in 2013 on the foundation's premises, which ensured the continuity of the foundation's activities in the period 2013-2015. it also noted that the budget monitoring actions carried out in the financial year 2013 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 99,78% and a payment appropriation utilisation rate of 95,72%.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this document approving the closure of the accounts of the european training foundation for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the financial year 2013 for the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (eu-lisa). the court of auditors stated in its report on eu-lisa's 2013 financial statements ('the court's report') that it had obtained sufficient assurance that the agency's annual financial statements were reliable and that the transactions reflected therein were legal and regular, and that there were therefore no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice that the agency's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. in its notification, the parliament noted that although the agency started its activities in december 2012, the commission granted its financial autonomy only on 22 may 2013, so that the audited financial year 2013 covers the period from 22 may 2013 to 31 december 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of closing the accounts of the agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the european area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european agency for safety and health at work (eu-osha) for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors, in its report on eu-osha's 2013 financial statements ('the court's report'), stated that it had obtained sufficient assurance that the agency's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions covered by them were legal and regular, and that there were therefore no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the director of the european agency for safety and health at work that the agency's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. parliament noted that budget monitoring for the financial year 2013 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 98,94% and a payment appropriation execution rate of 70,19%.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget of the european agency for safety and health at work. this decision also confirms that the agency has made significant improvements in the implementation of the annual work programme in 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the euratom supply agency (hereinafter referred to as euratom) for the financial year 2013 . the court of auditors stated in its report on the financial statements of euratom for 2013 ('the court of auditors' report') that it had obtained sufficient assurances that the agency's annual financial statements were reliable and that the transactions reflected therein were legal and regular, and that there were therefore no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the director-general of the euratom supply agency that the agency's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. however, the parliament noted in its report that, according to the explanatory notes annexed to the agency's annual accounts, all remuneration and some additional costs related to administrative services were directly covered by the commission's budget. it therefore expressed concern that this situation did not make it entirely clear to what extent the agency was dependent on the commission, and also stressed that, as provided for in the agency's statutes, the agency should have financial autonomy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the annual accounts of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2013 that it had obtained sufficient assurances that the agency's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions reflected therein were legal and regular. i am confident that the agency will take steps to implement more effectively the elements of the internal control measures, such as the risk management and control strategy, the performance monitoring procedures, the assessment of the functioning of the internal control system and the supporting documents for the code of professional standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound) for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors stated in its report on eurofound's 2013 financial statements ('the court's report') that it had obtained sufficient assurances that the annual financial statements of the foundation were reliable and that the transactions reflected therein were legal and regular, and that there were therefore no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the director of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions that the foundation's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. parliament welcomed the fact that the foundation indicated that information on the impact of its activities on union citizens was made available on its website, in particular through the annual publication of strategic documents such as the foundation's annual activity report and a large number of union policy documents relating to the area of life and work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharging the budget for the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the foundation's annual accounts that it had obtained sufficient assurances that the foundation's annual accounts were reliable and that the transactions reflected therein were legal and regular. i am confident that the fund's managers will be able to make corrective comments on the individual aspects of the operations, financial management and control.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european union judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) for the financial year 2013. in its report on the financial statements of eurojust for 2013 ('the court's report'), the court of auditors stated that it had obtained sufficient assurances that eurojust's annual financial statements were reliable and that the transactions reflected therein were legal and regular and that there were no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the director of the eurojust administration that the budget of eurojust for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. in its report, parliament recalls that eurojust was set up to strengthen the fight against serious organised crime and to improve the coordination of crossborder investigations and prosecutions between member states and between member states and third countries. on the basis of the information provided by eurojust, parliament also confirms that it has introduced a number of measures to reduce the spontaneous carry-overs of commitment appropriations, including a new report on the forecast of expenditure and mandatory training on the cycle of expenditure to be used for all entities involved in budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of eurojust for the financial year 2013, taking into account that the court of auditors' report indicates that two observations in the court of auditors' 2011 report, which were marked as 'on track' or 'not on track' in the court of auditors' 2012 report, have been corrected and one of the observations in the court of auditors' 2013 report was marked as 'completed' and the other as 'on track'. notes that the court of auditors' audit findings on the annual accounts of the european food safety authority (efsa) for the financial year 2012 were based on the information in the court's report on the annual accounts of the european food safety authority (efsa) for the financial year 2012; i also take note of the fact that eurojust has started to apply a number of measures to reduce the spontaneous carry-overs of commitment appropriations. i support the commitments contained in the resolution to take all necessary measures to address eurojust's shortcomings as a matter of urgency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget for the european police office (europol). the court of auditors stated in its report on europol's 2013 financial statements ('the court's report') that it had obtained sufficient assurances that europol's annual financial statements were reliable and that the transactions reflected therein were legal and regular, and that there were therefore no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the director of the european police office that the office's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. however, on the basis of the court's report, the parliament noted that, while the office had improved the preparation, execution and documentation of procurement procedures over the years, the effectiveness of procurement procedures in 2013 was hampered by the fact that some decisions were not sufficiently based on specific selection criteria or realistic price offers, and did not meet the normal professional requirements. however, parliament noted that, in the light of the findings of the court of auditors, it had initiated a review of the entire procurement process of the organisation in 2014 with a view to improving the current organisational structure and related procedures. the report therefore invited the office to inform the discharge authority of the outcome of this review and of the planned improvements to the procurement process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 financial year of the european police office, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the annual accounts of the european police office for the financial year 2013 that it had received sufficient assurances that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the operations reflected therein are legal and regular. i support the resolution's call for the institution to address as soon as possible its shortcomings in terms of transparency, internal audit, other issues of legality and regularity of operations and budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors stated in its report on the 2013 financial statements of the fra ('the court of auditors' report') that it had obtained sufficient assurances that the agency's annual financial statements are reliable and that the transactions reflected therein are legal and regular and that there are no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the director of the european union agency for fundamental rights that the agency's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. parliament welcomed the conclusion of cooperation agreements with the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions, the united nations, the european asylum support office, the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union, the european university institute, the european institute for gender equality and the council of europe, with a view to closer coordination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the annual accounts of the european union agency for fundamental rights that it had received sufficient assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the transactions reflected therein are legal and regular. it is also important that the risk assessment carried out by the commission's internal audit service (ias) has also established that all processes are sufficiently controlled and that no process is particularly risky; that the agency is taking action on all recommendations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the financial year 2013 of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex). in its report on the 2013 financial statements of frontex ('the court's report'), the court of auditors stated that it had obtained sufficient assurances that the agency's annual financial statements are reliable and that the transactions reflected therein are legal and regular and that there are no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union that the agency's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. parliament welcomed the introduction of a number of measures to manage and prevent situations of conflict of interest, including the establishment of a comprehensive disciplinary procedure. it also invited the agency to inform the discharge authority whether or not a specific policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest based on commission guidelines would be adopted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2013, as the agency is required to carry out all the mandates and recommendations of the court of auditors and to provide reliable reports and evidence as to the legality and regularity of the financial operations reflected therein. the agency shall also be required to address other operational, financial management and control deficiencies identified in the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european gnss agency (hereinafter referred to as 'gnss') for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors stated in its report on the financial statements of gnss for the year 2013 ('the court of auditors' report') that it had obtained sufficient assurances that the annual financial statements of gnss are reliable and that the operations reflected therein are legal and regular and that there are therefore no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the european gnss agency that the agency's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. parliament approved the implementation of the gnss agency's budget for 2013 as the court of auditors stated in its report on the annual accounts of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2013 that it had obtained sufficient assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the operations reflected therein are legal and regular.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 financial year of the european gnss agency as the court of auditors stated in its report on the annual accounts of the european police office for the financial year 2013 that it had obtained sufficient assurances that the office's annual accounts are reliable and that the operations reflected therein are legal and regular. i support the resolution's call for the institution to address as soon as possible its shortcomings in relation to the legality and regularity of operations and the resolution of budgetary management problems, with particular reference to the commission's internal audit service.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. for the third year in a row, the court gave the company a negative opinion on the duration of the ex-post audit. the audit of the claims for reimbursement of costs was delegated to the national funding bodies (nfa). however, the quality of their audits was not always sufficient and the court concluded that the information on the implementation of the ex post audit strategy was insufficient to assess the effectiveness of this control measure. in 2014, artemis was merged with eniac to form the electronic components and systems joint technology initiative (ecsel). as these companies no longer exist as separate joint ventures, any ex post audit recommendations will have to be implemented by the new ecsel joint undertaking and will need to be given time.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it postponed the european parliament's decision to confirm to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking that the artemis joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. in its report, the parliament noted with concern that, despite the fact that the audit of project declarations of expenditure was delegated to the national funding authorities, the administrative agreements signed with the nfis did not provide for practical ex post audits.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, as the european court of auditors (the 'court') has stated that the 2013 annual accounts of the joint undertaking present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2013 and the results of its operations and its cash flows at the end of the year, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules. i support the resolution's call for the urgent resolution of the shortcomings in the work of artemis and for the immediate development of a policy for the management of conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. the purpose of the clean sky initiative is to accelerate the development, validation and demonstration of environmentally friendly air transport technologies in the union and to bring them into use as soon as possible. although weaknesses were found in the ex ante control of the declarations of expenditure submitted by the company's partners, the company took the necessary measures to correct these weaknesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the clean sky 2 joint undertaking that the clean sky joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. parliament approved the budget implementation of this undertaking, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the annual accounts of the clean sky joint undertaking that the operations reflected in the annual accounts are legal and regular in all material respects.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the clean sky joint undertaking ('the court of auditors' report'), has stated that the transactions covered by the annual accounts are legal and regular in all material respects. i support the resolution's call for the institution to address as soon as possible its shortcomings in relation to internal control, conflict of interest. the need to improve the interfaces between the joint undertaking and the sesar joint undertaking to ensure that the risks of duplication of activities between the two joint undertakings are avoided.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. for the third year in a row, the court gave the company a negative opinion on the duration of the ex-post audit. the audit of the claims for reimbursement of costs was delegated to the national funding bodies (nfa). however, the quality of their audits was not always sufficient and the court concluded that the information on the implementation of the ex post audit strategy was insufficient to assess the effectiveness of this control measure. in 2014, eniac was merged with artemis to form the electronic components and systems joint technology initiative (ecsel). as these companies no longer exist as separate joint ventures, any ex post audit recommendations will have to be implemented by the new ecsel joint undertaking and will need to be given time.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it postpones the european parliament's adoption of its decision to confirm to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking that the eniac joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. parliament postponed the discharge because it was very concerned that the court of auditors had for the third year in a row given a conditional opinion on the legality and regularity of the operations shown in the annual accounts, as it was not possible to establish whether the ex post audit strategy, which relies heavily on the audit of project declarations of expenditure by the national funding bodies (nfis), provides sufficient assurance on the legality and regularity of the operations reflected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, following the provision by the court of auditors, for the third consecutive year, of a conditional opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions covered by the annual accounts. i support the resolution's call for substantial changes to be made as soon as possible, taking into account the findings of the commission's internal audit service.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking. the purpose of the company is to develop marketable products and thus facilitate additional industry efforts to rapidly deploy fuel cell and hydrogen technologies. although shortcomings were found in the timing of granting and finalisation of the negotiations, the company took the necessary steps to address these shortcomings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's way of confirming to the executive director of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking ii that the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. in its report, the parliament noted that the court of auditors found that the 2013 annual accounts of the joint undertaking correctly presented, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2013 and the results of operations and cash flows for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 financial year of the carbon elements and hydrogen joint undertaking as the court has found that the 2013 annual accounts of the joint undertaking present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2013 and the results of operations and cash flows for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules. i support the resolution's call for the institution's shortcomings to be addressed as soon as possible, in particular with regard to the observations of the commission's internal audit service.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget of the imi joint undertaking for innovative medicines. for the third year in a row, the court gave the company a negative opinion, on the grounds that the error rate in the claims for reimbursement of costs remained high (2,3%). - however, imi has taken specific preventive measures to reduce the risk of future errors. moreover, although the error rate remains too high, it has fallen sharply compared to the error rate of 5,82% in 2012 and is therefore not a sufficient reason for not granting the imi discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it confirms the european parliament's confirmation of the interim executive director of the innovative medicines initiative joint undertaking that the joint undertaking's budget for the implementation of the joint technology initiative 'innovative medicines' for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. the joint technology initiative 'new medicines' was established in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to significantly improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process and to achieve the long-term goal of making the pharmaceutical sector produce more effective and safer innovative medicines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative 'new medicines' for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors has found that the joint undertaking's annual accounts present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2013 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the financial year ended on that date, as required by its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer. i support the resolution's call for the institution's shortcomings to be addressed as soon as possible, in particular with regard to the observations of the commission's internal audit service. i agree with the need to ensure the added value and the effective implementation of union research, technological development and demonstration programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for the development of fusion energy and iter for 2013. the cont committee voted in favour of postponing the discharge of the iter budget on the grounds that the cost of implementing this project was twice as high as planned, that no system for monitoring expenditure deviations had been set up, that there were delays in public procurement and that the court had not been fully informed of the progress made. however, it is important to underline that the court of auditors has delivered a favourable opinion on the iter 2013 accounts, which is the basis for granting discharge. the joint undertaking is also well aware of the problems listed and has taken action to address them. since 2013, iter has made a number of improvements in its internal control and cost assessment systems, reporting, conflict of interest management, intellectual property protection and dissemination of results. the iter project is the first international research project of its kind and is very complex from a technical point of view, which has led to delays and cost overruns. for these reasons, it is important that iter be granted a discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy that the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. parliament gave its discharge to the court of auditors on the basis that the 2013 annual accounts of the joint undertaking correctly present, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2013 and the results of the operations and cash flows for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter europe and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013, as the court has found that the 2013 annual accounts of the joint undertaking present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2013 and the results of operations and cash flows for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules. i support the resolution's call for the institution to address its shortcomings as soon as possible, in particular with regard to the observations of the commission's internal audit service, other issues of legality and regularity of operations and the resolution of budgetary management problems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget of the sesar joint undertaking. the purpose of the company is to modernise air traffic management in europe. although the company identified communication deficiencies, it took the necessary steps to address them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the sesar joint undertaking that the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. the sesar joint undertaking was established in february 2007 to implement the sesar joint european sky air traffic management research programme, which aims to modernise air traffic management in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, the court having determined that the 2013 annual accounts of the joint undertaking are correct in all material respects as regards the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2013 and the results of operations and cash flows for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules. i support the resolution's call for the institution to address its shortcomings as soon as possible, in particular with regard to the observations of the commission's internal audit service and the obligations to monitor and report on the results of research.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal on money market funds (mmfs). pff provides short-term financing to financial institutions, companies or governments. by providing funding to these entities, mmfs contribute to the financing of the european economy. i agree with the rules for the operation of the prg set out in this proposal. as regards the risk mitigation requirements for mmfs, they need to be harmonised by establishing clear rules that impose direct obligations on mmfs and their managers across the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is the european parliament's proposal for a regulation on money market funds. money market funds (mmfs) are an important source of short-term funding for financial institutions, corporations and governments. in europe, about 22% of short-term debt securities issued by the government or corporate sector are held by money market funds. the prf also owns 38% of the short-term debt securities issued by the banking sector. in relation to demand, mmfs are short-term money management instruments that ensure a high level of liquidity, diversification and value stability, as well as market-based returns. prfs are mainly used by companies wishing to invest surplus money for a short period, for example, until large costs such as wage costs are incurred. thus, the mmf is the essential link between short-term money demand and supply.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the eu's money market funds are a great tool to help finance the european economy. in providing short-term financing, these entities use investments in mmfs as an efficient means of allocating credit risk and exposure, rather than relying solely on bank deposits. however, it is essential to ensure appropriate regulation and to assess the risks. i would point out that the authorities must cooperate and exchange information in order to ensure an appropriate monitoring and control process. the money market funds must be a sound instrument for the union industry's money management.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to codify and recast regulation no 517/94 of 7 march 1994 on textile products.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it supports the commission's proposal for a new version of the regulation on textile products not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other agreements or by other specific union import rules. the proposal is part of the harmonisation process following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon to ensure that the previous decision-making procedures in the field of trade policy are aligned with the new procedure for delegated and implementing acts. during this process, the commission identified certain errors that needed to be corrected. in order to incorporate some substantive changes, it was decided that the codification should be replaced by a new wording. these amendments are essentially technical corrections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other agreements or by other specific union import rules, since many of them are only technical changes that need to be implemented after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon in order to ensure that the previous decision-making procedures in the field of trade policy are aligned with the new procedure for delegated and implementing acts. during this process, the commission identified certain errors that needed to be corrected. it is important that the rules applied are clear to the operators concerned, easy to apply and provide legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it sets out the european parliament's position on the estimates of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2016. the communication notes that parliament, in assessing the current high level of public debt in the member states and the budgetary consolidation they are undertaking, must show a responsible approach to the budget and to austerity, while ensuring that sufficient resources are allocated to enable parliament to exercise all its powers and to ensure the proper functioning of the institution. the communication also reiterates that structural and organisational reforms aimed at greater efficiency, environmental sustainability and effectiveness should continue to be pursued in the context of the exploration of synergies and cost savings, and recalls that a substantial amount of money could be saved if the institution had only one, rather than three, posts as it has today.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution, but against the proposals to increase the budget of the assistants, to increase the budget of political parties and foundations, because it is a waste of taxpayers' money. i voted for the amendment to the so-called 'one-seat' system, i supported the proposals for greater transparency of payments.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to establish a european public prosecutor's office. in cases of fraud to misappropriate eu funds, increased prosecution, and recovery of funds, criminal offences will be investigated and prosecuted by a single independent prosecutor at european level. even if the current system works well in some member states, it is ineffective at eu level in terms of prosecution and recovery. the recovery of a relatively small proportion of our citizens' taxes is unacceptable and must change immediately. in its resolution of 12 march 2014, the european parliament called on the council to ensure its full involvement in its work and made a number of policy proposals to address the most important aspects, namely the structure, autonomy, decision-making process, competence, investigative measures, admissibility of evidence, judicial review and legal protection. the council of justice and home affairs has so far focused on a collegiate service, composed of one european prosecutor from each member state and headed by a prosecutor-general, and the competing jurisdiction of the new prosecutor's office and national prosecutor's offices.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's position on the structure, mandate and operating procedures of the future european public prosecutor's office. the eu loses at least 500 million in expenditure and revenue every year as a result of suspected fraud. the european public prosecutor's office will investigate crimes involving eu funds and prosecute suspects in national courts. the new prosecutor's office would be an independent body and a link between the criminal justice systems of the eu member states, whose powers are limited by national borders, and the eu institutions, which do not have the power to investigate crimes. the european public prosecutor's office will be integrated into national judicial systems, and eu prosecutors will investigate and prosecute crimes in the eu. they will work with national work groups and apply national law. the eppo will ensure that prosecutors in all countries follow the same operating methods.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a council regulation on the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office because, having read the document and the jurisdictional situation, i have come to the conclusion that, while the current system works well in some member states, it appears to be rather ineffective at union level in terms of criminal prosecution and recovery. in the context of the european institution, fraud to misappropriate eu funds, increased prosecution, and recovery of funds, criminal offences will be investigated and prosecuted by a single independent prosecutor at european level. this will increase eu citizens' confidence in eu jurisdiction and institutions.
madam president, it is very regrettable that from year to year we see so little progress on the bosnia and herzegovina side in the european integration process. remaining major blockages, as well as internal political divisions and tensions, do not allow agreement and the adoption of required strategies that would enable the country to use the available european pre-accession financial instruments. the lack of clear political direction in the country and lack of determination deprive the country and its people of the long-term economic and social benefits the eu is willing and able to offer to bosnia and herzegovina. thus i call on the leaders of the country to show initiative and willingness to direct the country to the european path.
in writing. ‒ the european union is one of the top alcohol consumers in the world, with an annual average of 10.7 litres per person (aged 15 or older). the misuse of alcohol is one of the major causes of preventable death and of diseases such as liver and heart disease and cancer. it has been estimated that the social cost of alcohol misuse is more than eur 150 billion per year. at the moment the commission is doing nothing to solve the alcohol misuse problem. therefore, i support ms willmott’s resolution urging it to take action. the commission had an alcohol strategy from 2006 to 2012: however, it was not renewed after its expiration in 2013. i believe that an immediate and effective strategy is needed for the upcoming years in order to raise awareness about important issues such as drink driving and drinking while pregnant. it is essential for the wellbeing of our society that the new strategy is adopted as soon as possible. i hope that this resolution will make the commission take further steps with regard to this issue.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to encourage the commission to draw up a new eu alcohol strategy (2016-2022) and to encourage the labelling of alcoholic beverages to indicate their energy value, as alcohol is very high in calories, but many people do not know this. i agree that consumers have a right to clear and fair labelling of alcoholic beverages in order to make correct, objective and informed decisions. the objectives of the new strategy are to help national governments reduce alcohol-related harm, support the collection of reliable data, promote prevention, health promotion and education, early diagnosis, better treatment options, provide ongoing support to dependent individuals and their families, including psychological counselling programmes, and reduce alcohol-related road accidents, etc. in 2010, the social costs of alcohol abuse in europe, directly or indirectly, amounted to €155.8 billion. alcohol abuse causes 3.3 million deaths a year, or 5.9% of all deaths, and harmful drinking is the third leading preventable cause of illness and death in europe, alcohol is linked to more than 60 chronic diseases, including cancer, heart and liver disease and obesity. alcohol abuse is also associated with other social problems, including job loss, divorce, and violence. europe also has the highest alcohol consumption in the world.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls on the european parliament to update the eu resolution on the eu strategy against alcohol for 2016-2022. alcohol abuse is one of the most common causes of lifestyle-related diseases in the eu, and alcohol dependence puts more than 60 chronic diseases at risk. in the eu, alcohol is the main cause of premature deaths, accounting for 5.9% of all deaths. in the 20-39 age group, a quarter of all deaths are alcohol-related. parliament believes that the future eu alcohol strategy should aim to update the regulatory framework to help national governments reduce alcohol-related harm, support monitoring and the collection of reliable data, promote prevention, health education and training, early diagnosis, better treatment options, provide ongoing support to dependent individuals and their families, including psychological counselling programmes, and reduce alcohol-related road traffic accidents and better differentiate alcohol consumption habits, behaviours and attitudes.
in writing. ‒ the i welcome the efforts of the european commission to reduce alcohol consumption in europe. addiction and health are problems at european level that unfortunately cannot be effectively addressed by states and communities. according to official statistics, 12 million people in the eu are dependent on alcohol. 1 in 4 road accidents in the eu is caused by non-drivers. in 2010, almost 31 000 europeans died on the roads, 25% of these deaths were attributable to alcohol. the social damage caused by alcohol consumption is estimated at eur 155.8 billion per year, and is the main cause of poor health and premature death among the working age population (25-59 years). in considering the alcohol strategy in the european parliament and analysing the proposals, i also understand the efforts of representatives of individual southern countries to legalise the notions of responsible consumption. however, what may be normal in spain or italy, with their culture of moderate consumption, is not at all appropriate for lithuania and many northern and eastern european countries. in lithuania, nearly a quarter of 15-year-olds drink alcohol every week. alcoholism rates are similar to those in russia and belarus. i believe that the european union cannot compromise on this issue and that the direction of the stock exchange policy must be totally unfavourable to alcohol consumption and aimed at reducing alcohol sales every year. therefore, no consumption, even moderate consumption, can be encouraged. therefore, recital p, paragraph 5 and in particular paragraph 16 of the draft had to be corrected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to mark the second anniversary of the collapse of the rana plaza building and to assess progress in the implementation of the sustainability agreement. two years ago, the rana plaza garment factory complex collapsed in bangladesh. the disaster killed 1,100 people. as the world's second largest exporter of clothing, the country exports more than half of its production to the eu. but the people who make it work under dangerous conditions. with the support of the eu and the international labour organisation, a number of changes have been made. it was agreed to improve supervision of the operation of factories and to improve fire and electrical safety rules. in addition, the minimum wage has increased and the role of trade unions has been strengthened. the bangladesh sustainability agreement is an agreement between the eu and the government of bangladesh, also supported by the ilo. in part, this agreement has led to changes in bangladesh's labour law. public pressure and the potential damage to reputation led international brands associated with 'rana plaza' to become more involved in the resolution of this issue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it marks the second anniversary of the rana plaza building collapse and the progress made in implementing the bangladesh sustainability agreement. on 24 april 2013, an eight-storey building called rana plaza, which housed several garment factories, collapsed in the savar area near dhaka, killing over 1,100 people and injuring more than 2,500. the collapse of the rana plaza building is the worst industrial disaster in bangladesh and the deadliest tragedy in modern history caused by a structural defect. on 24 november 2012, a fire at a factory in tazreen, dhaka's ashullia district, killed at least 112 people. parliament welcomed the steps taken to establish a permanent national occupational accident insurance scheme and, in this regard, called on the government of bangladesh to fulfil its commitment to the implementation of the national tripartite action plan. however, it remains concerned about the alleged corruption between health and safety inspectors and garment factory owners in bangladesh and calls for more efforts to be made to combat this practice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is the european parliament's expression of support for the victims and their families on the second anniversary of the collapse of the 'rana plaza'. the collapse of the rana plaza building, which housed several garment factories and in which more than 1,100 people died and more than 2,500 were injured, was the worst industrial disaster in bangladesh and the deadliest tragedy in modern history. parliament welcomed the steps taken to establish a permanent national occupational accident insurance scheme and, in this regard, called on the government of bangladesh to fulfil its commitment to the implementation of the national tripartite action plan. it also calls for the rooted corruption between health and safety inspectors and garment factory owners to be addressed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to take stock of the extraordinary european council meeting (23 april 2015) and to discuss the recent disasters in the mediterranean and the eu's migration and asylum policy. according to the un refugee agency, more than 1,600 migrants have died in the mediterranean since the beginning of the year. i agree that the eu must take concrete action to save the lives of migrants and allocate sufficient funds to search and rescue services.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution because we cannot allow such tragedies to happen again in the future, which will take so many lives. more than a thousand migrants have died in the past two weeks, and more than 30,000 people may have died in the mediterranean this year alone, according to the international organization for migration. this is a further indication that every effort should be made to save the lives of people in danger and that member states should respect their international obligations in the field of rescue at sea. migration is a global and complex phenomenon and requires a long-term approach addressing its root causes, such as poverty, inequality, injustice and armed conflict. the european parliament calls on the european union, its member states and the international community to help find sustainable political solutions in conflict-affected countries and to strengthen political dialogue to include all aspects of human rights, to increase the resilience of local communities and to promote the social and democratic development of the countries of origin and their peoples.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the european union must not only respond to the recent increase in tragedies and deaths in the mediterranean, but also deal in substance with the member states' compliance with their international obligations in the field of rescue at sea and with migration policy, with the policy of support for developing countries. i support the motion in the resolution calling on the european union, its member states and the international community to help find sustainable political solutions in conflict-affected countries and to strengthen political dialogue to include all aspects of human rights, to increase the resilience of local communities and to promote the social and democratic development of the countries of origin and their peoples.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to encourage bosnia and herzegovina to adapt the interim agreement to the preferential trade with croatia following the latter's accession to the european union on 1 july 2013, and also to encourage the parties to the agreement to take account of mutual interests in order to reach an agreement acceptable to the eu member states and the members of the central european free trade agreement. i agree that the eu should affirm a firm commitment to further integration into the eu of countries covered by this regulation by granting unilateral trade preferences. trade preferences are the most effective means of ensuring stability in the region and of encouraging political, social and economic reforms as soon as possible.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution. however, i am disappointed to see that bosnia and herzegovina is showing such a slow process of progress. unfortunately, domestic peripetion also does not contribute to the much needed strategies needed to implement and absorb the preparedness financial instruments. political instability hinders the ability of a country and its citizens to make the long-term commitments necessary to access the eu's social and economic instruments. the country must also ensure the fundamental principles of human rights, democracy and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to suspend the exclusive external trade arrangements for the countries participating in the stabilisation and association process, including bosnia and herzegovina. the document is a highly relevant document and comes at a very timely time - when bosnia and herzegovina is still seeking both internal stability and its european orientation. at the same time, i would like to emphasise that the decision was taken for essentially technical reasons. politically, trade is one of the key ways in which the eu can spread its soft power. it is therefore vital to look for mechanisms to keep the eu in the orbit of the countries that matter to us. in cases where partner countries are not doing enough to implement the partnership commitments, the eu should focus on technical assistance measures rather than sanctions, which will only make the situation worse.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which aims to condemn the persecution of christians worldwide in the light of the massacre of students in kenya by the terrorist group al-shabab. the european parliament condemned the terrorist attack by al-shabab on 2 april, which killed 147 students and injured 79. i support the calls by ms mogherini and the council to address the security and terrorist threats in this regional problem in cooperation with the african union and in support of its fight against al-shabab. it is important that the kenyan government guarantee freedom of religion for all.
in writing. - i voted for it because i'm concerned about the situation of christians, the persecution, the killing in kenya. not only christians but other religious groups are under attack. violence by violent terrorist groups, including al-shabab, is not only a violation of human rights, but also a violation of human nature. the right to live and practice one's religion is a fundamental right. and the international community must respond and provide humanitarian aid.
in writing. ‒ the in recent years, extremist groups linked to the islamic state in iraq and syria (isil/daesh) have deliberately destroyed a number of archaeological, religious and cultural complexes in syria and iraq. cultural heritage is an important part of the cultural identity and social cohesion of communities, groups and individuals and its deliberate destruction can have negative consequences for human dignity and human rights. i support the calls for action by the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to stop the illicit trade in cultural goods from the territory of syria and iraq and thus prevent their use as a source of financing. i support the calls for the development of european training programmes for judges, police and customs officials to combat illicit trafficking in cultural goods. it is important that the authorities put an end to all forms of violence, including violence against peaceful protesters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that cultural heritage does not belong to any one country or group. cultural heritage, wherever it may be, belongs to all humanity and the international community must therefore join forces to stop such crimes. it is regrettable that extremist groups in syria and iraq are destroying and looting ancient religious and cultural sites. the ep encourages the mobilisation and coordination of international efforts to protect vulnerable cultural, historical and religious heritage sites and objects from the threat of looting and destruction.
in writing. ‒ the cultural heritage in iraq and syria is an eminent treasure for the peoples and communities in the region and for mankind as a whole. by targeting buildings, sites and artefacts, isis attacks cultural identity and terrorises and intimidates individuals identified on the basis of their cultural, ethnic or religious background. i support the resolution with the call to undertake every possible action, including the use of satellite imaging for tracking damaged areas, and to do our utmost to stop illicit trade in cultural goods, which is a source of financing for terrorist organisations. such acts of deliberate and systematic destruction of the cultural heritage may be considered as crimes against humanity, and those responsible must be brought to justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament expresses its grave concern at the growing trend towards an authoritarian regime in the maldives, the crackdown on political opponents, and the intimidation of the media and civil society. the ep also expressed concern at the serious irregularities in the trial of former president mohamed nasheed and urged his immediate release. nasheed, known for his peaceful struggle for human rights, was imprisoned several times during the 30-year dictatorship of president maumoon abdul gayoon and controversially left office four years after becoming the first democratically elected president of the maldives. supports the calls for an immediate end to political interference in the maldivian judicial system and for its de-politicisation. it is important that the eu high representative for foreign affairs and security policy and the european external action service continue to closely monitor the political situation in the maldives and play an active role in the eu's bilateral engagement with the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the constitutional crisis in the maldives is a problem not only because of the country's fragile situation in a difficult climate zone, but also because of the growing radicalism in the distribution and acquisition of drugs, especially among young people. the eu must therefore support the democratic process in the country, monitor the elections and cooperate with the country's future democratically elected government.
in writing. ‒ albania has made significant progress towards eu accession over the past few years, leading to its being granted candidate status in june 2014. however, challenges remain and need to be addressed quickly and effectively to continue to make progress towards eu membership. it is important that albania takes concrete measures and demonstrates a sustained political commitment to implement them in order to address the issues related to the consolidation of democratic change and the implementation of reforms necessary for eu membership. calls on the authorities to step up the fight against corruption, to establish a fair judicial system, to ensure the independence of the judiciary and to strengthen the protection of human rights;
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour because albania has made impressive progress towards eu accession in the last few years and was therefore granted candidate status in june 2014. i am convinced that the continued consolidation and effective implementation of reforms in the five key priority areas is helping albania to secure democratic change and is opening the way for accession negotiations. in addition, the eu accession process has become a driving force for eu-related reforms in albania. the opening of accession negotiations would provide a boost to eu-related reforms would ensure a clear and credible eu perspective. i am convinced that this status should be seen as an incentive to further reform and as a continuing support for albania's eu integration processes, including the safeguarding of human rights, economic reforms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion on the progress report on bosnia and herzegovina. the european union is helping the country to relaunch its reform process, improve its socioeconomic situation and move closer to the european union. the country still faces widespread corruption, fragmented public administration, problems with legal systems, weak mechanisms for cooperation with civil society, a polarised media, and inequality of rights for all indigenous peoples and citizens. the country should address social and economic problems, improve the business environment, institutional structure, rule of law, strengthen judicial institutions, fight corruption, public administration reform. i support the calls for the high representative and the eu member states to maintain a consistent position on the issue of the integration of bosnia and herzegovina as well.
in writing. - i supported the motion for a report on the progress of bosnia. the document is a highly relevant document and comes at a very timely time - when bosnia and herzegovina is still seeking both internal stability and its european orientation. moreover, despite the softening of the tone of some of the groups' representatives, the main provisions of relevance to us remained: the commemoration of the 20th anniversary of the srebrenica massacre and the call for measures to be taken in this regard, the call for a continued rapprochement between the eu and bosnia and herzegovina. unfortunately, we in the green group have not been able to secure some very important amendments concerning some very nationalistic interpretations of historical events. we also regret that we have not received support from our colleagues for our proposal for a much broader eu negotiating position with regard to bosnia, which i very much hope will not encourage the good trends developing in the current phase of relations with that country.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal for the annual report 2013 of the european investment bank. the eib's financial activity increased by 37% to reach eur 75,1 billion in 2013. the eib's resources are mobilised to increase public and private sector investment, promote competitiveness, restore sustainable growth and promote quality jobs and infrastructure. it is important that the eib and the european funds cooperate, in particular in the member states and regions, to enable productive public investments and key infrastructure projects. it is essential that the commission's new investment plan encourages and facilitates access to finance in member states and regions with high unemployment and a gdp per capita below the eu average. i agree that priority should be given to projects with european added value and the greatest impact in terms of job creation. it is important to focus more on high-risk projects that have difficulty in obtaining bank financing.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution on the 2015 milan world fair: 'feeding the planet. the energy of life". the event has the potential to provide a major impetus to the debate on improving food production and distribution, tackling food waste, promoting and developing existing positive approaches to food scarcity and inadequacy and nutrition, and finding a balance between the availability and consumption of resources. i agree that a strong and sustainable agricultural sector across the eu, a prosperous and diversified rural economy, a clean environment and family farms are all essential to tackling the food security challenge. i support calls for the commission and the member states to use the exhibition to establish commitments to ensure the right to adequate, healthy, sustainable and informed food consumption. the commission shall set binding targets to encourage member states to take action against food waste.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the theme of the world expo 2015 in milan is 'feeding the planet'. life energy is of particular relevance today throughout the world. a high profile event can provide a major impetus to the debate on improving food production and distribution, tackling food waste, promoting and developing existing positive approaches to food scarcity and malnutrition and finding a balance between available and consumed resources. urges the commission and the member states to take advantage of the theme 'feeding the planet' at the world expo 2015 in milan; i applaud such initiatives.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution condemning the massacres committed by boko haram in nigeria. it calls on the nigerian authorities to put an end to the attacks in the country as soon as possible. it also calls on nigeria's neighbours and the international community to work together to prevent boko haram from generating revenue. the eu is also committed to the implementation of the un convention on the rights of the child (uncrc) and the un convention on the rights of the child (uncrc). the newly elected president of nigeria, m. buhari, is also urged to commit funds and forces to the fight against boko haram and to restore security and stability in the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the eu, as one of the largest international organisations of democratic states, must take a strong stand against the intolerable human rights violations that are taking place in nigeria. responsible nigerian officials must take steps to stop any repression on the basis of religious or ethnic differences. it must take immediate action in nigeria, through a combination of diplomacy and long-term development cooperation, to ensure peace, security, good governance and respect for human rights.
author.– mr president, the detention of nadiya savchenko is unlawful and inhumane. the minsk agreements must be respected in full. this was still being pointed out by 61 members of this house back on 17 october of last year, when we co-signed the first public appeal to president putin. in addition, for the last three months, on every single day, yet another member of the european parliament sends a letter to the russian ambassador in brussels. sixty letters have been sent up to now. it is not that we expect to get any kind of reply; what we expect is for russia to act in a civilised and 21st century european manner. it is appalling that president putin chooses to keep nadiya savchenko detained as his personal prisoner. as a consequence, the savchenko list, together with the magnitsky list, are becoming tools for dealing with putin’s russia, and this is very sad.
on 17 june 2014, a terrorist group in the lugansk region took hostage a former ukrainian air force (kop) pilot, nadezhda savchenko. on 24 june 2014, she was illegally transferred to russia, where she was charged with criminal offences by the russian investigative committee. as of 1 january 2014, she was a member of the 'people's council' of the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. following a prolonged hunger strike, savchenko's health is in very poor condition. in the framework of the exchange of prisoners of war provided for in the minsk agreements, 'all for all' was to include mr savchenko in the list of prisoners of war, but the russian side rejected this possibility. the european parliament strongly condemns the russian federation for the abduction and unlawful detention of ms savchenko, which has been going on for a year, and calls for her immediate release.
mr president, in 2007 during the plenary debates the european parliament praised the agreements signed between the commission and philip morris, and generally the agreements with other tobacco producers were regarded as a success story. a lot has been achieved in combating illicit cigarette trade and smuggling, especially when we look back to the 1990s. however, the eu continues losing around eur 10 billion annually, and the greatest influx of smuggled cigarettes comes through external eu borders, including in the baltic region. thus cigarette smuggling remains a very acute problem and further improvements are vitally required in this area. but in order to take a position on whether we should continue with such agreements with tobacco companies after 2016, we must have relevant information on what was achieved and what the shortcomings were under the current agreements.
mr president, it is a pleasure to have the commissioner and vice—president here tonight. commissioner, i am not sure if you are the right member of the commission for this issue that we have with vat. i can see the uk has a lot of problems with it; other countries are happy about the changes because smaller countries are sometimes at a disadvantage when there is competition in relation to taxation and vat rates. it is a very complex situation, and we tend to make things very complex in europe, unfortunately. i would suggest something though, which is to change the name ‘e-book’ into simply ‘dc’ (digital content). we should just change it to dc because we no longer know what a book is or what it becomes, and once you open it up you have live content and you are doing something else with it. so let us start thinking ahead of the curve, forget the past and see where these things will be in the future. the future will be a digital content single market. we need to be proactive and not reactive. i know the commissioner is himself, so i would say: be brave; make very simple decisions to simplify europe – for businesses to understand how things work. whatever the tax is, make it very easy so that they can pay it easily and not have to close down. that is all it is about. it is going to be difficult to agree on rates for all of us, but we can definitely make things very simple and understandable.
in writing.– currently the eu’s ambitions to create a common digital single market are being largely obstructed by administrative hurdles such as different vat rules across the union and, more specifically, an unequal treatment of similar non—digital and digital services and goods. i hold the view that this not only distorts fair competition, discourages smes and e-commerce but also makes digital goods much more difficult and expensive for eu consumers to access. hence, i think that there is a great practical need to have a uniform vat regime in the eu. moreover, i believe that the derogations and reduced vat rates should be applied for digital books, journals and magazines as they are now already applied for the printed books (their physical counterparts) due to being classified as cultural goods. this would not only benefit producers and consumers but could have a positive impact on the development of digital information base, research and innovation. finally, it must be noted that the digital sphere develops extremely fast, and if we want to keep up our competitiveness on the world scale there is an urgent need for action and the commission should step up its efforts to address this issue.
it must be recognised that smes already provide services that contribute to environmentally sustainable economic growth. however, often due to a lack of resources, they operate in a defined territory and their ideas, products and services are known only to a limited number of people. so it's not uncommon for small businesses to invest a lot of time and resources reinventing the bike. i therefore support the ideas put forward in the report that not only should these enterprises be supported and the conditions for their use of aid facilitated, but that european networks of small enterprises should be developed. both informal networks and the european centre of excellence for resource efficiency should help companies to exchange good practices and knowledge to ensure efficient use of resources. in order to promote green and sustainable economic development, we also need to develop a simple consumer information system. by empowering consumers, we will not only support sustainable business, but we will also change people's daily habits and attitudes towards the damage they do to the environment.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council covers crucial aspects of security and peace in the world. the extraction of natural resources, especially in conflict-affected countries of the so-called third world, can be a source of conflict. the commission has also found that the use of rare earths in the mining sector is not in line with the environmental objectives of the union. this regulation, which seeks to break the link between illegal mineral exploitation and international disputes, is therefore worth reviewing. the main objective of our legislation in this area must be to promote peace and stability in the world's most at-risk areas. in this context, the project establishing an eu certification scheme for importers who wish to develop responsible imports of rare metals into the european union is of positive significance. this means that international relations must be conducted in accordance with specific standards that are in line with oecd recommendations. however, the recommendations explicitly state the obligation to ensure thorough security in the mineral supply chain from conflict-affected areas in order to eliminate any potential risk of human rights violations. and that's what we're seeing today. the oecd reference should be recognised as one of the most important references in the development of new international law. the commission's proposal, known as the 'do no harm' principle, deserves support. the union must take the lead in this area in order to be able to influence more effectively the way peaceful conflict resolution is achieved.
mr president, we are very fortunate to have such a bright commissioner in a very important post in an area that is going to be the future of europe. however, commissioner, let us be very pro-active and not reactive. for example, uber is a great service from america and there are now so many fighting back against it, so many states – including the big country that we are in right now – fighting this company that allows young people to work and make a fair living by working hard. that is what applications and the digital single market will achieve for europe: letting young people work and be rated by what they do. people can order their services, so let us be proactive, let us allow young people to earn a fair living – and ‘fair’ is whatever they are worth. whatever work they do, however good they are. that is what being fair is – it is not what states tell you ʽfairʼ is, or the red tape and the bureaucracy that we propose. let the digital single market be a revolution. good luck to you, commissioner. we support you. let us all work and focus.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation. the purpose of the proposal is to codify existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation. the proposal is of a legal technical nature, aiming at the codification of existing legislation.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the law must be clear and transparent. citizens must be able to make good use of the specific rights conferred on them. it is therefore essential to ensure that eu legislation is simpler, clearer and more accessible. it should be noted that the new regulation does not change the content of the acts to be codified, only the formal changes necessary for the codification will be made.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. directive 98/84/ec establishes a common eu-wide legal framework to combat the unauthorised use of pay-tv services and to protect such services effectively. such protection means that any commercial activity involving the use of facilities which provide access to services without the authorisation or payment of the supplier is considered illegal and subject to penalties. as early as 1999, the council started work on the european convention on the legal protection of conditional access services and conditional access services. the eu signature of the convention should encourage more council of europe member states to ratify it, thus extending the legal protection of conditional access-based services beyond the eu.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which gives parliament its support for the conclusion of the european convention on the legal protection of services based on conditional access and of services based on conditional access. the european council started the preparation of this european convention back in 1999, as a comprehensive and effective protection of conditional access services and conditional access services is necessary. this convention extends the directive adopted by the council and the european parliament in 1998 which establishes a common legal framework for the european union as a whole to combat the unauthorised use of pay-tv services and to protect them effectively. the protection also extends to the transmission of traditional television and radio programmes and their transmission via the internet. many european countries outside the european union can become havens for the development and distribution of pirated content based on conditional access services, when their legal systems do not provide for sanctions for this very specific pirated activity. the application of the provisions of directive 98/84/ec should therefore be extended and a common and effective system of protection of those services should be established at european level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft european convention on the legal protection of services based on conditional access and of services based on conditional access on behalf of the european union, as such a decision is based on european union law and does not contradict the case law of the court of justice of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the i am in favour of the conclusion of the convention, as a common and effective system of protection for these services needs to be established at european level. an effective common eu-wide legal framework should be in place to combat illegal means of unauthorised access to pay-tv services and to protect such services effectively. the protection of conditional access services and conditional access services is necessary in view of the specific nature of this piracy activity. it is necessary to harmonise national provisions on measures against illegal devices that allow unauthorised access to protected services, thereby preventing illegal activities. providers of conditional access services or services based on conditional access must be given access to appropriate legal remedies and must be provided with an effective mechanism for redress.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of the immunity of viktor uspaskich, as there is no reason to believe that the law enforcement action is related to the political persecution of viktor uspaskich for his work in the european parliament. the infringement in question occurred before mr uspaskich became a member of the european parliament and the pre-trial investigation was opened before he took up his duties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the prosecutor general of the paris court of appeal has requested the waiver of the immunity of this member of the european parliament in the context of the pre-trial investigation opened against him for falsification of documents, use of forged documents, breach of trust, attempted fraud, complicity in and concealment of these offences, illegal campaign financing, complicity in and concealment of these offences. the system of fictitious invoices and the allegations relate not to the performance of mr lavrilleux's duties as a member of the european parliament, but to his previous duties as a member of the presidential candidate's campaign team, set up to take part in the elections held two years before mr lavrilleux was elected member of the european parliament. moreover, there is no evidence of fumus persecutionis, i.e. there is no reasonable suspicion that the case was brought with the aim of damaging the political reputation of a member of parliament. the legal affairs committee, after hearing mr lavrilleux's explanations, proposes to waive his immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of the immunity of jérôme lavrilleux, as the charges are not related to his duties as a member of the european parliament, but to his activities as deputy director of the electoral campaign. the european parliament has not found sufficient serious and clear grounds to believe that the case is being brought with the aim of prejudicing the work of a member of the european parliament in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the prosecutor general of the republic of poland has forwarded the request of the prosecutor of the warsaw district for the prosecution of mr janusz korwin-mikke, member of the european parliament, for the offence provided for in article 222 (1) of the criminal code of the republic of poland; because the case concerns in particular the alleged violation of the integrity of a civil servant. the prosecutor's office of the warsaw region claims that on 11 july 2014 mr korwin-mikke violated the bodily integrity of mr michał boni by striking him with his hand in the face at an event (meeting of newly elected polish meps organised by the ministry of foreign affairs of the republic of poland) in warsaw, when the victim was on duty as a member of the european parliament. the actions of mr korwino-mikke may be treated as a criminal offence under article 222 (1) of the criminal code of the republic of poland (polish code of civil procedure) (suspicion of violating the integrity of a civil servant). according to article 115 (13) (2a) of the polish civil code, a member of the european parliament is a civil servant.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of mr korwin-mikke's immunity because there are no sufficient grounds to believe that the court was used to damage mr korwin-mikke's political reputation as a member of the european parliament, as the accusation made has nothing to do with his position as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the deputy prosecutor of the supreme court of the hellenic republic has requested the waiver of the immunity of the member of the european parliament, mr theodoros zagorakis, in order to take possible legal action in respect of the alleged criminal offence. he is accused of financial irregularities committed between 2007 and 2012 in relation to the activities of the football club paok, which was then chaired by theodoros zagorakis. the alleged offences are clearly not related to mr zagorakis' duties as a member of the european parliament but to his duties as president of paok football club. the committee on legal affairs, after hearing the explanations of this member, decided to waive his immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of mr zagorakis' immunity, as the charges brought against him are not related to his activities or position as a member of the european parliament, but to his duties as president of the football club. there is also no substantial evidence that the allegations are made solely with the aim of damaging his political reputation as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for consultation of the european economic and social committee. where the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides for the consultation of the economic and social committee, the ep shall set a deadline for the committee to deliver its opinion. parliament shall approve the request to consult that committee without debate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request to the european economic and social committee for a consultation on improving the functioning of the european union on the basis of the possibilities offered by the treaty of lisbon and on possible changes and adjustments to the institutional structure of the european union, as i believe that the opinion of the social partners is of great importance when planning structural changes and adjustments on the basis of the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for consultation of the european economic and social committee. where the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides for the consultation of the economic and social committee, the ep shall set a deadline for the committee to deliver its opinion. parliament shall approve the request to consult that committee without debate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request to refer to the european economic and social committee for consultation on possible changes and adjustments to the institutional structure of the european union, as i believe that the opinion of the social partners is important in this case.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for consultation of the committee of the regions. where the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides for the committee of the regions to be consulted, the ep shall set a deadline for the committee to deliver its opinion. parliament shall approve the request to consult that committee without debate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for consultation of the committee of the regions. where the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides for the committee of the regions to be consulted, the ep shall set a deadline for the committee to deliver its opinion. parliament shall approve the request to consult that committee without debate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request to consult the committee of the regions on possible changes and adjustments to the institutional structure of the european union, as i believe that, based on my experience, the regional structures in the member states can offer effective solutions.
in writing. ‒ the i support the vote to postpone this proposal for further discussion. it provides for new rules to increase the credibility of interbank interest rates, which determine the price of loans. the draft new rules aim to prevent conflicts of interest that could affect the formation of benchmarks such as libor (london interbank offered rate) or euribor (euro interbank lending rate). these two interbank interest rates affect the value of financial instruments and contracts in excess of eur 500 billion and can therefore directly affect the stability of eu financial markets. it is proposed that all index administrators who collect, analyse and process non-public data should register with the european securities and markets authority and publish an 'index certificate' indicating what is being measured by the index and how reliable it is.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the common position on the council and european parliament regulation on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts. benchmarks are essential for pricing cross-border transactions and thus for facilitating the effective functioning of the internal market in a wide range of financial instruments and services. many benchmarks used as reference standards in financial contracts, in particular mortgages, are drawn up in one member state but used by credit institutions and consumers in other member states. moreover, these credit institutions often hedge their risks or obtain financing to enter into these financial contracts in the cross-border interbank market. the scope of this regulation should be as broad as possible in so far as it is necessary to establish a system of preventive regulation. the development and setting of benchmarks is discretionary and inherently entails certain types of conflicts of interest, which means that there are opportunities and incentives to manipulate those benchmarks. those risk factors are common to all benchmarks and should therefore be subject to appropriate governance and control requirements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report containing the european parliament's proposals for the draft regulation on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts presented by the commission. this regulation establishes a common framework to ensure the accuracy and fairness of those indices. this contributes to the proper functioning of the internal market while ensuring a high level of consumer and investor protection. the amendments aim to reduce the possibility of manipulation and abuse of benchmarks, to ensure a wider range of benchmarks and thus to increase the transparency of the system.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to ensure the accuracy, soundness and fairness of benchmarks and the process of setting them. in order to achieve the objectives pursued, a regulatory framework for benchmarks should be established and applied in the eu to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and to guarantee a high level of consumer and investor protection. greater attention should be paid to the protection of benchmarks against manipulation. it should be noted that such illegal activities may undermine market confidence, cause losses to consumers and investors, and distort the real economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to provide development assistance. the eu is the world's leading donor of development aid, providing almost 60% of all official development assistance in the world. over the 2014-2020 period, in addition to the eur 2,2 billion emergency reserve, an additional eur 19,7 billion has been allocated to development cooperation and eur 6,8 billion to humanitarian aid. the european development fund (edf) is worth eur 30.5 billion. the 2015 budget includes eur 2,4 billion in commitments for development cooperation and eur 928,8 million in commitments for humanitarian aid. i agree that it is important to set clear priorities for spending, with particular attention to measures in the areas of health, education, energy, water supply and infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because the european union and its member states, as the largest donors of development aid, need to lead the development finance process and help ensure a credible response to the challenges of development finance, ensuring policy coherence for development in the post-2015 agenda. the european parliament welcomes the recent commission communication 'global partnership for poverty eradication and sustainable development beyond 2015' for its comprehensiveness, its focus on policy coherence and its confirmation of the eu's commitment to fully engage in the global partnership. however, this document does not sufficiently commit to setting a timetable for the implementation of future funding objectives. in addition, it is necessary to ensure that the most vulnerable communities have development opportunities. thus, when support is provided solely through government mediation, there is a risk that marginalised or vulnerable communities will be underfunded. the european parliament also stresses the need to achieve the highest level of coordination in the european union in order to ensure consistency with other eu policies (environmental protection, migration, international trade, human rights, agriculture, etc.) and to avoid duplication of work and uncoordinated activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the european union must take a leading position in the fight against the financial challenges facing the world. we are the partners in the international arena that provide the greatest support for development. we must therefore ensure that the european union helps to find answers to emerging problems in those parts of the world facing the greatest development challenges. we also need to coordinate development activities very well between member states to avoid duplication and to ensure that the most vulnerable communities have access to eu assistance.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report. the eu is the world's leading donor of development aid. it is therefore essential that clear and transparent data on all eu development budgetary allocations are provided on a regular basis. it is worth noting that financing the sdgs is a major challenge. in this context, the global partnership should be given greater attention. in addition, the use of all forms of financing and non-financial instruments should be encouraged. it should be noted that private funding can complement public funding but cannot in any way replace it. clear spending priorities are essential to achieve the objectives set. i believe that the eu's strong commitment to focusing more on the quantity and quality of development aid should also serve as an example for other public and private donors who must honour their financial commitments.
i'm sure this is one of the most important announcements of the session. antibiotic resistance is a growing threat, and we need to invest our time and resources in this area. otherwise, there will be irreversible consequences. antibiotics are not foods or supplements, although not everyone is aware of this. i fully agree with the need to phase out the prophylactic use of antibiotics in animal husbandry, with greater emphasis on disease prevention and hygiene. it is unacceptable that more and more animals are infected with antibiotic-resistant bacteria and that this creates a risk that they may transmit the bacteria to consumers through contaminated food. it is necessary to support information campaigns targeting farmers. i also think that the sale and distribution of antibiotics to humans should be strictly regulated. for example, in 2009, the swine fever scare in lithuania led to a mass procurement of medicines. people who didn't have to suffer like that could buy antibiotics. another aspect of antibiotic packaging.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to improve patient safety and bacterial resistance. healthcare-associated infections affect 8-12% of patients admitted to hospital in the eu. according to the european centre for disease prevention and control, these infections affect an average of 1 in 20 patients admitted to hospital in the eu, or 4.1 million patients per year, and cause over 37 000 deaths in the eu each year. it is estimated that 20 to 30 percent of these infections could be prevented by implementing intensive hygiene and control programmes. the threat to patient safety is posed by austerity measures that reduce healthcare costs. i support the proposals put forward to invest in continuing education, monitoring and prevention of medical and health services in order to avoid a significant number of adverse events. it is also important to establish forms of compensation and to assess how the presence of specific preparations in the premises where patients are treated is regulated. the main focus of patient management should be on prudent use of available antibiotics and on national and international action to restrict the movement of patients infected with resistant bacteria.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with patient safety and the fight against drug resistance, in particular antimicrobial resistance. it is therefore more important than ever to ensure that patient safety, i.e. the right of the patient not to be harmed by therapeutic treatment, is a central element of healthcare systems. unfortunately, the economic crisis has put increasing pressure on member states' budgets, which has affected patient safety, and many member states have drastically reduced the budget and staffing levels of their health systems by failing to address the issue of efficiency. in addition, the economic crisis has further exacerbated existing disparities in access to healthcare. it is therefore necessary to draw attention, first of all, to the fact that the risk to patient safety is posed by austerity measures implemented to cut healthcare costs. these horizontal cuts directly affect the quality of care, which is unacceptable. the treatment must therefore be patient-centred and the funds allocated to health systems must not be unnecessarily cut in order to save money. investment is needed in continuous training, medical and health services monitoring, early warning systems and prevention to avoid a significant proportion of adverse events, including those caused by medication.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on safer healthcare in europe because i agree with the provisions contained therein no cuts in health systems' budgets due to economic difficulties can be a reason to compromise on patient safety. it is unacceptable that funding cuts in national health systems are at the expense of quality of care. you have to save wisely. improve national health systems: invest in continuing education, monitoring of medical and health services, early warning systems and, most importantly, prevention. this would make the work more efficient and would not endanger the lives of patients.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report. patient safety is a key element of healthcare systems. treatment should be for the patient's well-being. it is therefore necessary to continuously improve patient safety and to remove barriers to improving patient safety. health care is becoming increasingly complex and risky. quality assurance and continuous improvement, with a particular focus on health safety, therefore become a major challenge. first, it is necessary to ensure adequate funding of health systems. the budgetary allocation for health systems must not be allowed to be unduly cut in order to save money. strict austerity measures should not affect patient safety. in addition, investment in continuing education, monitoring of medical and health services, early warning systems and prevention needs to be encouraged. specific ambitious targets should be set to reduce the use of antibiotics.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to encourage smes to benefit from green growth. first, it is necessary to assess the opportunities of the green economy, to understand the current challenges faced by smes, in particular in terms of products, production processes, business practices and services. while various public support schemes can provide some incentives for research, technological development and innovation, the most important incentive is a stable and innovation-friendly regulatory and investment framework. i agree that over-regulation and divergent interpretations by different regulators increase the burden on smes and create obstacles to the functioning of the internal market, and that this problem needs to be addressed urgently.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are the backbone of the european economy and an important driver of economic growth and job creation. it is important to fully appreciate the opportunities of the green economy, recognising the challenges currently faced by smes, in particular in terms of product, production process, business practices and service degradation. the commission's green sme action plan is a very welcome initiative to encourage smes to benefit from green growth. in the case of sme financing, one of the main difficulties in negotiating a credit agreement is the lack of information available to smes and creditors. both parties agree that increased communication will improve the understanding of creditors' needs for credit to smes and smes' understanding of the different credit options. risk capital, informal investors and crowdfunding should be more clearly distinguished as financing alternatives to traditional bank lending. when designing programmes, measures and initiatives, the commission should take into account a wide variety of financing needs, depending on the product, the size of the enterprise, the technology, the innovation, etc. in particular, a wide choice of instruments is needed in the green economy, as there is still uncertainty about the return on investment due to new technologies and business models.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the environmentally sustainable growth opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) because i believe that it is necessary to reconcile two areas of strategic importance for the eu: the green economy and the activities of smes. it is clear that smes are the potential real chance to drive european economic growth and thus create the jobs europeans need. understanding and assessing the opportunities of the green economy and helping smes to overcome the challenges of moving towards greener production processes, products and services is vital. the commission should contribute to this and provide funding instruments for companies that achieve these results. the commission should consider how to meet fairly the different funding needs depending on the product, the size of the company, the technology, the innovation. it is in this area that a wide range of measures needs to be well thought out, as in a green economy we cannot yet be sure of the return on investment in relatively new business models or technologies.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report. it is important to note that smes will play an important role in the circular economy, as they are the backbone of the european economy and a major driver of growth and job creation. it is therefore necessary to help smes to turn environmental challenges into business opportunities. in particular, it is necessary to facilitate sme financing and to remove existing barriers related to the lack of information available to smes and creditors. it is also necessary to provide for a wide choice of financing instruments, as there is still uncertainty regarding the return on investment due to new technologies and business models. i agree with the proposal that it is necessary to withdraw proposals for legislative acts which are outdated or excessively burdensome. the regulatory burden must be reduced. overregulation and divergent interpretations by different regulators increase the burden and create obstacles to the functioning of the internal market.
madam president, europe does not belong to federalists or eurosceptics. it belongs to europeans, and they need peace and security. we must act accordingly and reflect real needs. indeed, the european union needs to take practical and effective steps towards a well-functioning common space of security and defence. we need to be able to react properly and in a timely way to tackle emerging risks and especially to prevent them from happening. there is no risk that the eu, by strengthening its common security and defence policy, will become a hard power and a risk to its neighbours. the european union is a democratic structure and is run by the rule of law. i believe our discussion today will help us to go in this direction, and indeed to build this common space of security and defence on our continent.
despite the important decisions taken in recent years, it is clear that member states still lack greater focus on this issue. let's be honest, almost all member states are looking at each other right now, expecting who will provide their security. or they're just concerned about the security of their country. we cannot wait, we must know today what concrete measures we will take together in the face of any internal or external challenges. proper coordination, clear planning, a greater focus on crisis prevention and preparedness, adequate funding for the implementation of security and defence policy - that is what we lack. there is no doubt that increased funding also requires greater transparency, and i fully agree that there should be an evaluation of the effectiveness of the 17 european missions abroad. but funding is not the only problem. a telling fact: not all member states are involved in the military operations conducted by the union. it is time to put an end to the loud declarations and to start working on the substance of european security and defence.
in writing. although almost five years have passed since the european parliament adopted its position on the revision of the maternity leave directive, the council has been unable to harmonise its official position among member states and this directive, which is of paramount importance to all countries, has reached a deadlock. it is not acceptable today that some member states not only delay the adoption of a directive aimed at improving the conditions for mothers and fathers to bring up their children, but also propose to abolish these better opportunities. it is also unacceptable that the commission, through the regulatory quality and results programme (refit), could not support the proposal to revise the directive. if this should eventually happen, we in the european parliament call on the luxembourg presidency to take immediate action in the council, namely to launch a legislative initiative to revise council directive 92/85/eec in order to improve the safety and health of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding, thus addressing demographic problems while reducing gender inequalities. this directive is particularly important at a time when europe's demographic situation is very poor, when fertility rates are falling every year in almost all member states and our society is ageing very rapidly. the proposal to repeal the directive is not a compromise but an attempt to avoid important decisions. what message will we send today to people, to young families in europe who are looking for a new change?
on behalf of the s&d group the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is the first convention to which the european union has acceded as a single organisation. this shows the importance the eu attaches to the rights of people with disabilities. as the guardian of the treaties, the commission must therefore respect this political commitment of the eu and do everything possible to ensure that important pieces of legislation such as the anti-discrimination directive or the accessibility act are presented and adopted. this is what 80 million citizens of the european union are waiting for. another important issue today is the monitoring of the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the european union, as a party to the convention, faces an internal institutional problem. the european parliament, the directly elected body of our people, is not properly and formally involved in the preparation of reports and monitoring of the implementation of the convention. yes, the commission is designated under article 33 of the convention as the lead institution designated to answer the list of questions of the committee on the disabled. however, the same article 33 of the convention indicates that the parliament is a very important part of the structure of the european union, entrusted with promoting, protecting and monitoring the implementation of the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. in no way can an institution directly elected by the people be removed from the monitoring of the implementation of legislation, which is certainly not in line with the principles of democracy. however, in our institutional battles, we cannot forget what we are fighting for. the petitions received by the parliament's committee on petitions, in which disabled people report that they have faced discrimination on the grounds of their disability in seeking employment, working for themselves, using public services and education, are a constant reminder that we have not yet done so. commissioner, i ask you with great responsibility to involve the european parliament in the preparation of the replies to the united nations committee on the implementation of this convention.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am categorically opposed to the application of quotas to the european union member states in the so-called african immigrant relocation programme. it's the wrong way. it will not solve problems but will make them worse. what does a quota of 20,000 migrants mean when 150,000 refugees reach europe each year from the mediterranean alone? again, we are told to deal not with causes but with consequences. it's unreasonable, illogical and ineffective. refugees' quotas are not milk production quotas for the eu countries, which are much easier to regulate mechanically. quota policy will be nothing in the end, it will only encourage more migration to europe, because it will send a signal: 'you are welcome here, you will be taken care of here'. but the message to african countries, to their governments, should be very different. only stable peace in the region, only adequate control of its borders, must henceforth be the sole and indisputable condition for the negotiations by the european union institutions on donors' financial, technological and humanitarian aid and trade agreements.
in writing. globalisation is a path to greater prosperity, but any fundamental process has negative consequences. we can be neutral when it comes to the movement of goods, but when economic hardship causes mass migration, we must speak first of all about human dignity, ethics, human rights. it is clear that in a europe without borders, solidarity on migration needs to be promoted, and it should not be a matter for border states alone. if europe was in solidarity with us, the baltic states, when we suffered the consequences of the russian embargo, today we must be in solidarity with italy. solidarity cannot be partial or one-sided. it is to be welcomed that the member states have come together to tackle this important issue. however, the distribution of migrants among different countries is not a long-term solution. i think we can invest more in preventing the influx of migrants and crises. it is equally important to ensure that the public is adequately informed about the implementation of the common agenda on migration. there are a lot of stereotypes, a lot of fears that are being raised by politicians in this room. we must ensure that the people of the european union understand the justification for our actions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposed calendar of plenary sessions for 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal of the conference of presidents of the european parliament for the dates of the short plenary sessions in 2016.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. the new protocol takes account of the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation, in which the european parliament supports the conclusion of an additional protocol to the eu-south africa trade, development and cooperation agreement. the additional protocol was approved by the council on 9 october 2014 and by south africa at the end of december 2014. the additional protocol is intended only to incorporate into the trade, development and cooperation agreement (tdaa) of the republic of south africa a number of technical and linguistic amendments which are necessary following the accession of croatia to the european union. the signature of the additional protocol is necessary for the republic of croatia to become a contracting party to the saa. the croatian language is added to the list of languages in which the texts of the additional protocol to the teu are authentic. the government of the republic of south africa is currently deciding which authorised representative it will instruct to sign the additional protocol. the council shall wait for the adoption of the said decision before arranging for signature. once the protocol has been signed, the council will formally request the european parliament to give its consent to the conclusion of the protocol.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. this is a procedural decision, which includes a number of technical and linguistic corrections which are necessary for croatia's accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal on the protection of the financial system against the use of money laundering and terrorist financing, which aims at strengthening the fight against money laundering. money laundering accounts for between 2 and 5 percent of global gdp each year. the new rules will require the publication of the true owners of companies in the central registers of eu countries, and make this information available to public authorities and to persons with a legitimate interest, such as journalists. it also lays down new rules on the transfer of funds, which should facilitate the traceability of funds. in negotiations with the eu council, the european parliament succeeded in ensuring that the updated money laundering directive would oblige eu countries to publish the beneficial owners of companies, funds and other legal entities in their central registers. in addition, banks, auditors, lawyers, real estate agents and casinos will have to monitor suspicious customer transactions more closely.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation, which supports the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing. this directive is proposed to strengthen the internal market and, in particular, to reduce the complexity of cross-border movement, to protect the public against crime and terrorist acts, to safeguard the economic well-being of the european union by ensuring an efficient business environment and to enhance financial stability. the removal of barriers in the internal market not only makes it easier to set up or develop a legitimate business across the eu, but also creates more opportunities for money laundering and terrorist financing. therefore, money laundering criminals may try to conceal or disguise the true nature, source or ownership of the assets concerned. european legislation has been adopted to safeguard the proper functioning of the financial system and the internal market. however, the evolving nature of money laundering and terrorist financing threats, which is facilitated by the continuous evolution of technology and criminal tactics, requires the legal framework to be continuously adapted to counter such threats.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing. the world doesn't stand still. the eu's internal market, financial systems, economic conditions and technology are changing. criminals who launder money or help finance terrorism are adapting to a changing world. it is therefore necessary to keep the legal framework up to date and modernised in order to adequately counter these threats.
in writing. ‒ the i agree with the position. we must do more to protect society from crime and terrorist acts, and the economic well-being of the european union by ensuring an effective business environment. financial stability needs to be enhanced by ensuring the soundness, orderly functioning and integrity of the financial system. it is therefore essential to ensure that the eu has an effective system in place to prevent the use of the financial system for money laundering or terrorist financing. in order to achieve the objectives pursued, it is appropriate to extend the scope of the directive beyond casinos to the entire gaming sector. in addition, it is necessary to include tax crimes in the scope of the directive. it is essential to strengthen the sanctions regime. in particular, it is necessary to lay down the minimum rules of principle for the purpose of strengthening administrative penalties. it is also appropriate to carry out a threat assessment and to take timely mitigation measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal on information on transfers of funds, which aims to strengthen the fight against money laundering. money laundering accounts for between 2 and 5 percent of global gdp each year. the new rules will require the publication of the true owners of companies in the central registers of eu countries, and make this information available to public authorities and to persons with a legitimate interest, such as journalists. it also lays down new rules on the transfer of funds, which should facilitate the traceability of funds. in negotiations with the eu council, the european parliament succeeded in ensuring that the updated money laundering directive would oblige eu countries to publish the beneficial owners of companies, funds and other legal entities in their central registers. in addition, banks, auditors, lawyers, real estate agents and casinos will have to monitor suspicious customer transactions more closely.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation, which endorses the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on information to be provided in the context of transfers of funds and repealing regulation (ec) no 1781/2006. given the changing nature of money laundering and terrorist financing threats and the growing number of threats due to the continuous development of technologies and tools available to criminals, the commission proposed to revise regulation (ec) no 1781/2006 on payer information to be provided when funds are transferred, in order to increase the traceability of payments and ensure that the eu system is fully in line with international standards. this proposal is consistent with and complements the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of the financial system against money laundering and terrorist financing. these two legal instruments share the common objective of reviewing the existing system of the european union for the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing in order to improve its effectiveness while ensuring its compatibility with international standards. the proposal is also in line with the eu's internal security strategy, which identifies the most pressing eu security challenges for the coming years and proposes five strategic objectives and specific actions for a safer eu in 2011-2014. among them addressing money laundering and terrorism prevention issues, in particular updating the eu system to increase transparency of beneficial ownership information on legal entities.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on information to be provided in the course of transfers of funds and repealing regulation (ec) no 1781/2006. the commission has proposed to complement the relevant legislation with provisions to facilitate the traceability of payments and to ensure that the eu legal framework is in line with international standards. this and other related legal instruments pursue the common objective of a safer european union. this is particularly important in the light of changing circumstances and technologies used by criminals who also engage in money laundering or terrorist financing.
in writing. ‒ the i agree with the position. i believe that the time has come to review the eu's existing system for preventing money laundering and terrorist financing in order to improve its effectiveness. it is important to note that the nature of money laundering and terrorist financing threats is constantly changing and that threats are increasing due to the constant evolution of technology and the tools available to criminals. it is therefore important to ensure that the eu system is fully in line with international standards. in particular, the eu should have common and sufficiently stringent rules on information provided by the payer and the payee when transferring funds. this will improve the traceability of payments. in order to prevent discrimination in relation to national payments within a member state and international payments between member states, an international standard needs to be transposed into national law in a uniform manner throughout the union.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to make the european system for crossborder insolvency proceedings more efficient, thus ensuring the smooth functioning of the internal market and its resilience to economic crises. the bankruptcy regulation establishes a european framework for the cross-border insolvency of companies. the regulation applies where the debtor's assets or creditors are located in more than one member state. the regulation establishes the court with jurisdiction to open bankruptcy proceedings the main proceedings must be brought in the member state where the debtor's main interests are located and the consequences of the proceedings are recognised throughout the eu. the bankruptcy regulation applies to all member states except denmark, which does not participate in judicial cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation, which endorses the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on insolvency proceedings. this new proposal amends council regulation (ec) no 1346/2000 on the insolvency procedure. the bankruptcy regulation establishes a european framework for the cross-border insolvency of companies. the regulation applies where the debtor's assets or creditors are located in more than one member state. the regulation establishes the court with jurisdiction to open bankruptcy proceedings the main proceedings must be brought in the member state where the debtor's main interests are located and the consequences of the proceedings are recognised throughout the eu. the secondary proceedings may be brought in the place where the debtor is established; the secondary proceedings shall be brought only in respect of the debtor's assets situated in that state. the regulation also lays down rules for determining the applicable law and for coordinating certain main and secondary insolvency proceedings. the bankruptcy regulation applies to all member states except denmark, which does not participate in judicial cooperation under the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the objective of the review of the bankruptcy regulation is to increase the efficiency of the european system for the crossborder insolvency of creditors, thereby ensuring the smooth functioning of the internal market and its resilience to economic crises. this objective is in line with the current eu policy priorities to promote economic recovery and sustainable growth, investment and job preservation, as set out in the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on bankruptcy proceedings. the bankruptcy regulation establishes a european framework for the cross-border insolvency of companies. this regulation shall apply where the debtor natural or legal person has assets or creditors in more than one member state. other rules on the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings of this type are also laid down. the regulation is being reviewed with a view to making the european system of cross-border insolvency proceedings more efficient.
in writing. ‒ the i agree with the position that the changes envisaged will not create better conditions for the protection of companies in financial difficulties and on the verge of bankruptcy. in particular, the new regulation will help to address the practical problems of the administration of insolvency proceedings involving persons from several member states of the european union. it will also prevent abuse of rights in the pursuit of a more favourable legal position. issues relating to the opening of main and ancillary insolvency proceedings and their interrelationship, as well as issues relating to the disclosure of information on insolvency proceedings and the exchange of information between courts and administrators, will be dealt with more efficiently and more quickly. the entry into force of the provisions of the proposal on the mandatory cooperation between courts and insolvency practitioners in main and ancillary proceedings and in the insolvency proceedings of members of groups of undertakings may lead to a longer duration of insolvency proceedings and to an increase in the administrative costs of insolvency proceedings, but is likely to contribute to a better final outcome of insolvency proceedings. it is noted that the provisions of the proposal will improve the economic, business and competitive conditions by enabling more efficient insolvency proceedings involving entities from several member states of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the eu is one of the biggest importers of minerals and metals originating in conflict areas. this means that trade of such minerals cannot be treated as an isolated issue but should be considered in the broader eu foreign and security policy context. taking this fact into account, the eu should establish regulatory mechanisms in order to make sure that trade in such minerals will not result in financing of military groups or indirectly contribute to human rights violations in the countries of extraction. in the absence of such regulation, such trade subsequently undermines eu peacekeeping efforts and results in ineffectiveness of eu aid. therefore, i am convinced that in order for ores and minerals to be sourced responsibly, the supply chain needs to be made more transparent. for this reason, i voted in favour of the ep resolution calling for mandatory compliance on implementing the oecd due diligence guidance on responsible sourcing of gold, tin, tantalum and tungsten originating in conflict—affected and high—risk areas.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at a more responsible trade in minerals from conflict zones. the eu is one of the largest markets for tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, with more than 400 importers of these ores and metals. the new regulation establishes an eu system for the authentication of those importers who have chosen to import these metals responsibly into the eu. the verification requires eu importers of these metals to apply the due diligence principle in monitoring and managing their purchases and sales in accordance with the five stages of the oecd due diligence guidance. this is intended to limit the ability of armed groups in conflict zones to finance their activities through the mining and trade of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold. i agree that it is necessary to require eu smelters and refiners to carry out independent audits to assess whether they are responsible in their purchases of minerals. in order to enhance the social responsibility of smelters and refiners and the transparency of the supply chain and to facilitate the responsible sourcing of minerals, the eu should publish an annual list of eu and global responsible smelters and refiners.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which states that on 5 march 2014 the european commission presented a proposal for a legislative act aimed at restricting the ability of armed groups in conflict-affected and high-risk areas to finance their activities through the extraction and trade of minerals. the main objective of the proposal is to facilitate the responsible sourcing of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold by businesses and to promote legitimate trade channels. the commission proposes a draft regulation (as well as a response to parliament's resolutions) establishing an eu system of certification for importers of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold who choose to import these metals responsibly into the union. the regulation allows eu importers to further their current activities aimed at ensuring the cleanliness of supply chains for economic operators engaged in legitimate trade with countries in conflict. in order to increase the social responsibility of smelters and refiners and the transparency of the supply chain and to facilitate the responsible sourcing of minerals, the eu aims to publish an annual list of responsible smelters and refiners in the eu and worldwide.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which sets out the commission's proposals for restricting the ability of armed groups in conflict and high-risk areas to finance their activities through the extraction and trade of minerals. we must do everything possible to break the link between the world's most brutal military conflicts and the trade in minerals. the commission proposed to facilitate the responsible and transparent sourcing of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold by businesses. this would reduce the possibility of using illegal channels of trade. the commission also proposed a draft regulation establishing an eu system for the certification of importers of those minerals who choose to import those metals into the union in a responsible manner. we need to do more in this area. the commission must ensure that the provisions laid down in the document are implemented. it is also essential that we do not lose sight of the wider range of measures that are preventing bloody conflicts around the world in the legal promotion of legitimate trade.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the objection to the commission directive of 30 january 2015 amending, for the purposes of adapting to technical progress, the provisions on the exemption for the use of cadmium in lighting equipment and in reflecting lighting equipment. i support calls on the commission to submit a new delegated act to take account of parliament's position.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which deals with the issue of the exemption for cadmium in lighting and in photographic lighting. the commission has clearly stated that there are currently no quantum dot leds for lighting (with or without cadmium) and agrees that the positive environmental impact of their use has not been demonstrated. the commission has, however, extended the general exemption for the use of cadmium quantum dots in lighting equipment until 30 june 2017, thus allowing industry to apply for a specific exemption if such equipment is already in the pre-production stage. recently, there have been significant new developments in the commercialisation of quantum dot-free cadmium technology requiring a reassessment. the european parliament therefore objected to the commission delegated directive of 30 january 2015 amending, for the purposes of adapting to technical progress, the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the exemption of cadmium in lighting and display lighting equipment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on commission delegated directive .../.../eu amending, in the light of technical progress, the provisions of annex iii to directive 2011/65/eu of the european parliament and of the council on the exemption for the use of cadmium in lighting and display equipment, as the european commission has explained that there are currently no quantum dot leds for lighting (with or without cadmium) and it agrees that the positive environmental impact of their use has not been demonstrated. i therefore support the ep's position that the justification for the exemption has not been renewed and that the resolution therefore calls for an urgent reassessment of the existing exemption.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal for a market measure for ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin. further examination of data on ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin provides both transparency and knowledge of market developments. the market is still fragile and faces strong competition, in particular from imports from third countries. such information is also of particular importance in the context of the negotiation of an international agreement and of anti-dumping investigations. eurostat does not provide such precise information, which means that operators, member states and eu institutions have no other way of obtaining detailed information on the market situation. i agree with the objection to the commission's delegated regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which deals with the issue of the requirement to present an import licence for ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin. the examination of data relating to ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin provides both transparency and knowledge of market developments. the market is still fragile and faces strong competition, in particular from imports from third countries. such information is of particular value in the context of the negotiation of an international agreement and anti-dumping investigations. unfortunately, eurostat does not provide such accurate information, which means that operators, member states and eu institutions have no other way of obtaining detailed information on the market situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 20 february 2015 on the commission delegated regulation amending regulation (eu) no 376/2008 as regards the requirement to present an import licence for ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin and repealing regulation (ec) no 2336/2003 laying down certain detailed rules for the application of council regulation (ec) no 670/2003 laying down specific market measures for ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin (c(2015) 00861 2015/25 ((80dea)) as the information on data relating to ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin is not provided by eurostat and is relevant for the negotiation of an international agreement and for anti-dumping investigations and ensures transparency.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the committee's proposal to object to the delegated act. in particular, existing bureaucratic obstacles must be removed and unnecessary administrative burdens avoided. it should be noted that the situation on the eu ethyl alcohol market has changed significantly. the eu has become a net importer of ethanol. this market development was driven by the eu biofuels policy. it should be noted that the drawing up of the eu agricultural ethanol balance sheet and the requirement to present import licences are no longer appropriate and necessary for the management of agricultural markets. the delegated regulation submitted by the commission will help to simplify and reduce the administrative burden for the commission, member states' administrations and stakeholders.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to encourage member states to resume negotiations on the extension of minimum maternity leave. more women, especially older women, whose pensions are on average 39% lower than men's, and single mothers than men live in poverty and exclusion. women are more likely than men to work part-time, on fixed-term or temporary contracts, and women's poverty is largely driven by low-salary work. the crisis has further reduced fertility in the eu, as unemployment and uncertainty about the future have led to couples delaying the decision to have children. member states must resume negotiations on the maternity leave directive. i support calls for the commission to play a fair mediator role and to cooperate with the legislature in order to reconcile the positions of parliament and the council.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is necessary to unblock the deadlocked maternity leave directive. the member states must resume negotiations as soon as possible, because five years have passed since the european parliament adopted its position on this directive and it is certainly unacceptable that the council is not acting, that the debate in the council has stalled and that the whole legislative procedure is thus put at risk. the european parliament is ready to help to resolve the impasse and calls on the commission to play the role of an honest broker and to cooperate constructively with the legislative authorities in order to reconcile the positions of parliament and the council. the maternity leave directive is of particular importance, especially as the crisis has led to a further decline in fertility in the eu, resulting in high unemployment, precarious conditions and uncertainty about the future. in addition, the economy has led to couples, especially younger women, delaying the decision to have children, which has resulted in a further consolidation of the ageing demographic trend across the eu. i therefore hope that more concrete action will be taken during the luxembourg presidency of the council on the fate of this directive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on maternity leave because it gives us the mandate to continue negotiations on a directive on maternity leave, which is currently in an intolerable deadlock. i not only supported clearer eu measures to encourage maternity, to provide clearer conditions for maternity leave, but i also voted for an amendment to reduce parental discrimination by including paternity leave.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. in particular, the negotiations on the maternity leave directive should be resumed, as it is essential to ensure that men and women have the opportunity to share responsibilities for the family and household responsibilities in an appropriate way, while at the same time actively participating in the labour market. this would ensure a high level of employment for women and men, improve people's quality of life and enhance economic competitiveness. we must eliminate the interinstitutional instability and find a way out of the impasse as soon as possible. it is therefore essential that the commission takes on the role of an honest broker and cooperates constructively with the legislative authorities in order to reconcile the positions of parliament and the council. i think it would be appropriate to draw up a separate directive establishing paid parental leave of at least 10 working days, which would enable men, and fathers in particular, to exercise their right to work-life balance properly.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to implement the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. 80 million people in the european union have a disability. in 2008, the commission proposed an eu anti-discrimination directive, but it is still blocked by the council. existing eu legislation on disability rights should be better implemented and enforced in order to increase access to these rights for all persons with disabilities across the eu. i support the calls for the collection and dissemination of statistics on disability, the provision of goods and services to persons with disabilities, the promotion of independent living for persons with disabilities and the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites. improving the implementation of eu legislation is necessary to ensure that people with disabilities can travel independently using all modes of transport, including public transport.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the list of issues adopted by the united nations committee on the rights of persons with disabilities in relation to the initial report of the european union, because i support the position that, as full citizens, persons with disabilities have equal rights and the right to inalienable dignity, equal treatment, independent living and full participation in public life. the resolution therefore calls on all eu institutions to work closely together to improve the conditions for the integration of people with disabilities in the eu, including by calling on the commission to present an ambitious proposal for a european accessibility act, fully integrating people with disabilities into the whole legislative cycle, and to actively consult the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution which aims to urge the eu to take measures to prevent the spread of xylella fastidiosa, a bacterium that is harmful to olive trees in the region of apulia, italy, and to prevent further damage. xylella fastidiosa is a very dangerous bacterium and poses a very serious direct threat to the production of certain crops in southern europe. bacteria can cause devastating damage with huge economic, ecological and social consequences. the focus has so far been on domestic response to the outbreak and no measures have been put in place to prevent the spread of the disease into the eu from third countries. i support calls on the commission to take targeted measures against xylella fastidiosa to ensure that the infected material does not enter the eu. i support calls for the commission and the member states to compensate farmers for the destruction measures and the lost income, i.e. income not only from agricultural production but also from cultural heritage, history and tourism-related activities.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution because of the outbreak of xylella fastidiosa, a bacterium that is harmful to olive trees. this bacterial plant disease has already destroyed large areas of crops in third countries, such as vineyards in california and citrus groves in brazil, and is widespread in the united states and latin america. there are currently no treatments for diseased plants and affected plants usually remain infected throughout their life cycle or die quickly. a wide range of plants, including wild plants free of signs of the disease, may be infected with this disease in the european union. the commission does not always react quickly enough to the need to prevent plant diseases from entering the eu from third countries, as the import control system is strictly based on a reactive approach which does not provide sufficient protection against harmful organisms such as the bacterium xylella. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to verify the source of the contamination and to review the eu's official phytosanitary import system in order to protect the eu territory. in addition, the council and the commission should resume discussions on the review of the eu's official phytosanitary control system in order to protect the eu territory.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the outbreak of the olive tree pest xylella fastidiosa, because the consequences of this disease have crossed continental boundaries, there are no treatments for diseased plants, there are no preventive measures to stop the spread of the infection, and the regulation of imports from third countries is a complex and lengthy process. it is therefore necessary to ensure the protection of the eu territory by checking the source of infection as a matter of urgency and to resume interinstitutional work to address this problem.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the outbreak of the olive tree-damaging bacterium xylella fastidiosa is a major threat to an important european agricultural sector. action at eu level is necessary to prevent the spread of this bacterium, as the scale of the epidemic is very high. in particular, measures should be laid down to prevent the spread of the disease to the eu from third countries. the precautionary approach should be followed in response to this outbreak. in order to protect the eu territory from xylella fastidiosa, the commission should carry out a cost-benefit analysis of the eradication strategy in the short and long term. i think we should have demarcation zones. it is also essential to limit the large-scale use of pesticides, which pose risks to human and animal health and the environment.
blue-card question.– i do appreciate your constructive approach towards turkey’s involvement in the reform process and, indeed, we should follow this line. would you envisage any new instruments for turkey? and, especially, what should the commission provide in order to speed up these reforms and make them irreversible?
blue-card question.– indeed, this should not be a philosophical discussion: what name? what region? what to call citizens born in greek macedonia and in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia? by the way, some countries have recognised macedonia under the name of macedonia because the question came up for them even later. but my question is: this is very much about regional cooperation, about engagement and really practical things that might be changed because of bilateral and multilateral relations. i ask you, what are the practical steps you might recall from the greek side, recently, taken in order to involve macedonia in the regional cooperation and to help this country to undertake some of the reforms it so needs?
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, the eastern partnership launched five years ago is an example of the european union in real action. despite all the difficulties – and even open attacks – the eastern partnership is something we should be proud of today. the alde group fully supports the eastern partnership policy, as it represents a highly effective stimulus for furthering democratic change and the process of reform in the partner countries in eastern europe. as a result, we have today three associated partners of the eu on the map of europe: georgia, moldova and ukraine. we all know the price they are paying for their european choice: the one of unprecedented military, political and economic pressures and propaganda. we initiated an open letter to the eu heads of state and their governments concerning the declaration of the riga summit. this letter has been signed by 98 members of this house. we believe that the riga summit should act in an ambitious way and in the spirit of solidarity with our associated partners. firstly, we call on the eu leaders in riga to recognise the future membership perspective of georgia, moldova and ukraine. clarity on this, along with the criteria and requirements, will be the right step and is needed today, not tomorrow. secondly, we urge in riga to commit to extending the visa-free regime to the citizens of georgia and ukraine by setting definite deadlines, hopefully by the end of this year, for the completion of their visa liberalisation plans. it is eu policy vis-à-vis russia which has failed, to everybody’s regret, and it is the eastern partnership which proved to bring positive results.
russia today is making it clear that what is happening in ukraine can be repeated in other countries of the eastern neighbourhood. in the face of such economic and security threats, the european union must be even more united and strong in its support for the eastern partnership countries. today we must talk about real support, tangible support that can be mutually beneficial. we need to ensure that the eastern partnership countries are better informed about the work of parliament, the commission and the council and about future legislation. this requires funding for the work of journalists from the eastern partnership countries here in strasbourg and in brussels. we need to promote regional cooperation, and increase support for projects that promote the sharing of experience, skills and knowledge. today we talk a lot about the necessary reforms in the eastern partnership countries, but they must not only be a means of joining the european union, but also an aspiration of the people of georgia, ukraine and moldova themselves, which will help them to secure their own prosperity. i therefore invite everyone to invest in the people of the eastern partnership by sharing the strength of europe's founding ideas.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the common security and defence policy (csdp). the eu's strongest and most important feature is its ability to pool resources and to apply a wide range of diplomatic, security, defence, economic, trade, development and humanitarian instruments in a coherent manner, in accordance with the provisions of the united nations charter. the european parliament considers that the financing of missions and operations under the common security and defence policy is a matter for the future. no concrete proposals have been made yet since the council started to discuss this issue in december 2013. parliament therefore calls for the costs of conducting csdp operations and missions, in particular those carried out with the assistance of eu combat groups, as well as the costs of the infrastructure for the accommodation of forces, the costs of the entry points for the forces into the area of operation and, where appropriate, the costs of food and fuel stocks, to be systematically covered by athena. it is also encouraged to use this mechanism to manage bilateral funding received from member states and funds received from third countries or international organisations in such a way that they can contribute to the financing of a specific operation.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the implementation of the ep resolution on the common security and defence policy (based on the council's annual report to the european parliament on the common foreign and security policy) because i believe that the security environment for the eu and its eastern neighbours is becoming increasingly fragile and volatile, with a large number of old and emerging security problems, and that the conflict in ukraine, the conflicts in syria and iraq with the activation of the terrorist organisation isil, the libyan crisis and the threat of terrorism in africa (especially in the sahel, libya and the somali peninsula) pose a direct threat to the security of the european union. in addition, the union and its member states must adapt as quickly as possible to new security challenges. i also supported proposals to consolidate the eu as a major player in the common defence context with nato. we must take into account the importance of accelerating cooperation with nato in the field of cyber defence.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which discusses the need to reconsider the financing of csdp missions and operations and to make better and more cost-effective use of budgetary appropriations, while ensuring appropriate democratic control of all mission operations, both civilian and military, at the level of the eu institutions. the european parliament welcomes the concrete measures and pragmatic decisions recently proposed by the commission under the applicable financial rules framework to shorten the financial procedures related to csdp civilian missions. however, parliament calls on the commission to address the existing weaknesses in the system, to develop a template for the financial rules specific to civilian csdp missions and to adapt the existing guidelines to their needs in order to facilitate the swift, flexible and more efficient execution of missions, while ensuring sound management of eu finances and adequate protection of the financial interests of the union. it is important to emphasise that transparency and accountability are essential requirements to ensure not only democratic control of eu missions but also their proper functioning and reliability. the european parliament attaches great importance to the control of the budgeting of the various csdp missions and operations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the financing of the common security and defence policy, as the increasingly complex security situation within and outside the union, with new threats and risks that no member state can address alone, requires a strengthening of the common security and defence policy (csdp) and a more effective policy instrument to ensure that it is a genuine guarantee for the security of eu citizens and the promotion of european interests and values. the european union therefore needs to improve the protection of its external borders, rethink the financing of csdp missions and operations and make better and more cost-effective use of budgetary appropriations, while ensuring appropriate democratic control of all mission operations, both civilian and military, at the level of the eu institutions and ensuring transparency and accountability of funding. at the next european council on defence, concrete measures must be adopted to help build up the eu's defence capabilities and complement nato's forces, to support and consolidate the european defence agency and to strengthen the common industrial and technological base.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which deals with security and defence capabilities in europe. parliament expressed its deep concern at the escalation of armed conflict in the eu's immediate neighbourhood, low-intensity crises, hybrid and proxy warfare, state failure, instability and widespread human rights abuses, as well as the threat of terrorism within the eu. the security environment is facing increasingly complex and challenging challenges, and the european defence sector is threatened with becoming dependent on external factors. it is necessary to address complex security and defence issues such as the uncoordinated defence budgets of the member states, the continued fragmentation of the market despite new market rules, the increasing dependence of the defence industry on exports outside the eu and the growing foreign investment in the european defence sector in some countries. it is also necessary to take into account the fact that the eu has recently been facing increasing cyber threats and challenges, which pose a serious threat to the security of individual member states and the eu as a whole. such threats should be properly assessed and action taken at eu level to provide for technical and other security measures in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the impact of developments in european defence markets on security and defence capabilities in europe, as the security of the european union and its neighbours is of paramount importance in terms of the provision of adequate capabilities and equipment. moreover, the success of peacekeeping and security missions under the csdp is highly dependent on the ability to react quickly and immediately, and the main objective is therefore to create a real european defence market, avoiding duplication and reducing bureaucratic obstacles.
in writing. ‒ the the current security threats are of concern to the eu as a whole and should be addressed in a unified and coordinated manner. however, it is essential that the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity are respected in addressing these highly complex issues. the sovereign rights of the member states shall not be infringed or restricted. in order to ensure security and stability in europe and in neighbouring countries, particular attention should be paid to certain projects relating to the autonomy and independence of the eu. the consolidation of the defence industry must be a level playing field for all parties. the european defence equipment market cannot be created in a way that undermines the legitimate expectations of the member states. full transparency must be ensured and duplication of effort avoided. priority should be given to cooperation and pooling and sharing initiatives. it is essential to ensure efficient use of resources. particular attention and support should be given to promising small and medium-sized enterprises and innovation centres in order to facilitate their entry into european and international markets.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as we speak, there is an empty seat over there on my left, and we see that it belongs to one of the leaders of a political party from france, to ms marine le pen. i believe she is absent from this part-session not because of the trouble at brussels airport, but because of her trip in moscow. according to various media reports, she is visiting moscow to receive a regular credit line from russian contacts and banks, and i believe she is there not just for money. she is in moscow on instructions and we will hear about those instructions later in our session. i call on the french authorities to investigate this very dubious political campaigning and i call on parliament to support my line.
madam president, the forthcoming g7 meeting will take place in the context of the extremely challenging geopolitical situation both in europe and worldwide. i would like to single out three top priorities which must be properly addressed at the g7. first, the ongoing crisis and military conflict in ukraine; second, the spread of isis and destabilisation of the middle east; and third, the top priority, the refugee crisis on european shores. the entire world is watching with worry the situation in ukraine from where, unfortunately, we have received this news about the ongoing destruction of ukraine and the ceaseless efforts of russia to destabilise ukraine, both politically and economically. the g7 must objectively evaluate the real implementation of the minsk agreement and fully support ukraine in its fight for its territorial integrity and freedom. another urgency is the global threat posed by isis and the spread of terrorism, both regionally and globally. not a single country in this world is free from the danger of terrorism, and so the security tension in the middle east will continue to grow and will pose immeasurable threats to global security. we have to be realistic that europe will not be able to cope with the continuous influx of refugees and prevent thousands of deaths on its shores as long as the crisis in the middle east is not addressed in a global, coherent manner.
for the verts/ale group i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, mr tarabella, for their cooperation and consultation in the preparation of the document. although i cannot thank you for listening to the other groups' comments in full, i must admit that the document itself is quite well drawn up. it reflects the need to continue and improve the effectiveness of school-based healthy eating and school-based education activities by combining the two previous programmes into one, and reflects important proposals from the committee of the regions. i regret, however, that because of some aspects of the report which are at best questionable, we greens have had to table seven amendments. i would like to mention the most important ones: the ban on flavour enhancers or substances e 620, e 650. food additives such as monosodium glutamate (e 621) are known to promote addiction, high blood pressure and overweight, including in children. why the rapporteur wants to feed our children with unhealthy chemical additives at the expense of the european union, i really do not know. on the rules on disclosure. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and corruption, and to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. i don't see why you should. i would also like to point out that the programme is not very large. in many member states, less than half of the schools participate. so let's think about whether we can afford the luxury of financing a single country's supply of chocolate milk, spend large and fixed sums on advertising the program. i therefore propose that our amendments nos 50 to 56 be supported and in particular that amendments nos 11, 32, 37, 45 and 49 be rejected.
madam president, information is power in a digital age, and we are at a stage where we are not really being proactive and we are not moving forward. the nis directive (network and information security directive) is stalling. we had problems with the italians, now we have problems with the latvians. let us get on our bikes and do something and get this directive done. we need it and we need to get on the offensive. we cannot just be defending europe, we need to have an offensive division too that can strike back at our attackers. they are out there. they are attacking. they are doing damage. they are killing the freedom of information. they are killing us! let us really focus and do it, and all unite together and get this nis directive done. we do not have the luxury to wait anymore. we need to get things done in europe, and cybersecurity is very important. i would say that it is the same as terrorism. we have had some attacks. we will have some cyber-attacks, and that is terrorism. let us all unite and let us bring europe forward to the light.
in writing.– living in the digital era entails not only information sharing at increased speed but also more favourable conditions for cyber—hackers to find various security shortcomings. therefore, taking into account the increasing incidence of cyber-attacks against western media agencies in recent years – including attacks carried out by isis and by the syrian regime, and a number of undisclosed attacks – efforts to step up cybersecurity are needed. cyber-attacks pose an imminent threat and can take many forms: interrupted news flows, the distortion of media information for terrorist purposes, the leaking of sensitive personal data such as the identities of whistle-blowers, etcetera. such attacks are extremely dangerous, especially at times when critical coverage of events is required. they are an aspect of information warfare, with the aim of distorting facts and fuelling an unwanted response to the originally intended media communication; and, in turn, they endanger the security of states and their citizens. i believe that a new cybersecurity directive is extremely timely. we need to make sure that, at least, a minimum level of security is guaranteed in sectors of critical importance, such as media, health, banks and transport, and to ensure that these sectors step up their security cooperation with the european agencies.
in writing. cybersecurity is becoming an increasingly important issue in europe. attacks occur daily, affecting all countries of the european union, without limiting geographical borders. the internet is an open platform and a tool for various terrorist groups and radical groups to pursue their destructive goals. the baltic states are concerned by the russian cyber-propaganda and cyber-attacks against public opinion platforms, public institutions and the media. the increase in hacking shows that anti-eu forces and special services of hostile countries have mastered the ways of exploiting digital space as one of the most powerful tools for threats and terrorism. cyberterrorism must be seen as a threat to the security of the eu as a whole and must be addressed as a matter of urgency.
in writing. we in the european parliament have spoken on several occasions and have stressed in our resolutions the need to adopt laws prohibiting forced child marriages and to set the minimum age of marriage for girls at 18. all girls and boys must have the right to a safe childhood, the right to education, children must be protected from all forms of violence and exploitation and must feel safe as full citizens. such fundamental rights are enshrined in the united nations convention on the rights of the child, yet millions of girls are deprived of childhood, are abandoned at an early age, and are not only denied their rights as children, but are often subjected to violence and sexual exploitation. in addition, the health of young girls - both physical and psychological - is often affected, and sadly, there are cases where such forced marriages result in the death of young girls. i would therefore like to ask the commission whether it intends to take any concrete action to stop the forced marriage of young girls. what initiatives could the commission take to educate and train communities, girls and families in those countries where forced marriage still exists? so it's very important to change the attitude of families, of parents, towards such marriages. of course, we also need to pass laws to prohibit the forced marriage of young girls and to punish sexual abuse, harm to health, and any violence against girls.
the milk sector has been and still is one of the core agricultural sectors in lithuania, but an analysis of the situation of the milk market over the last two decades shows that cooperation in this agricultural sector in lithuania is not strong enough and does not support competition from raw milk imported from the european union countries. even cooperating farmers are unable to build up enough bargaining power to negotiate fair prices for their milk. one reason is the oligopoly of milk buyers and traders, who are subject only to regulation, but such regulation is limited by the common organisation of the milk market in the european union. given the current situation, it is simply necessary to give the member states the possibility of regulating the raw milk market more or to take responsibility for regulatory measures at european union level. the lithuanian government has proposed a law that significantly increases the regulation of the milk market, but its adoption is blocked by opponents of regulation under the guise of european union law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this decision proposing better synergy between the school fruit scheme and the school milk scheme. better coordination of the schemes and a unified political approach will increase their efficiency and will bring more positive results. promoting the consumption of fruit, vegetables and milk at european educational establishments will not only provide the nutrients and vitamins that children need but will also help to shape healthier eating patterns, starting at a young age, and to fight the rising incidence of obesity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to improve the supply of fruit, vegetables and milk to schools. the school milk scheme has been in operation since 1977 and the corresponding fruit and vegetable scheme since 2009. however, the consumption of fruit, vegetables and milk is declining in europe. 22 million children are overweight, and adolescents on average consume only 30 to 50% of the recommended daily intake of fruit and vegetables. the new rules aim to bring together eu programmes to promote the use of these products in schools. eu member states are encouraged to allocate 10 to 20% of the combined fruit, vegetables and milk scheme to education, for example by organising farm visits or supplying local products such as honey, dried fruit. in addition, it is proposed to increase by eur 20 million the financing of the milk supply part of the programme, which should reach eur 100 million per year.
in writing. ‒ i supported the creation of this scheme. in fact, this is a consolidation of two already existing schemes – the school milk scheme and the school fruit scheme. it should be noted that the milk and fruit sectors combined represent nearly 30% by value of eu agricultural output. obviously, however, the goal of this scheme is not a financial but a health one. modern nutrition trends among children show an increasing switch towards unhealthy processed foods, and this scheme is designed to tackle the associated problems. the priorities should be buying fruit, vegetables and milk from local, environment-friendly farmers, and having regional authorities decide who is the best provider for the schools they administer.
in writing. despite the various documents adopted in the field of gender equality, women in europe - young and old alike - still face many problems. gender equality and non-discrimination on the basis of sex are still a challenge in our work. unfortunately, poverty in europe is most acute for women, particularly single mothers, young and old women, who suffer from poverty and social exclusion, and the situation is further aggravated by the economic crisis and the special savings measures. the situation is also aggravated by low-security work, part-time work, low wages and pensions, difficulty in accessing basic social and health services, job losses, particularly in the public sector and in the care and nursing sector, and this gender equality approach is therefore all the more important. we therefore call on the commission to develop and adopt a new, separate european strategy on women's rights and gender equality, aimed at creating equal opportunities, with a view to eliminating any discrimination against women in the labour market, in pay, pensions, decision-making, access to goods and services, family life and work, and in other areas. it is also necessary to eliminate all forms of violence against women, and we therefore call on the commission once again to submit a proposal for legislation to combat violence against girls and women and to prevent violence.
rapporteur.– mr president, first of all let me thank all the shadow rapporteurs – ms jaakonsaari, mr van baalen, ms fotyga, mr meszerics and mr šoltes – for all their work, and for the proposals that were made and amendments that were tabled during the process of preparing this report. i would also like to thank all those colleagues – meps and parliament staff – for their very valuable input into this very sensitive and important matter that we are here to discuss: eu-russia relations. i would like to note that while preparing the report i was planning on going and taking the opportunity to hear what the officials in moscow had to say. unfortunately, my fact-finding mission did not take place, since my delegation was not let into russia. we can only regret that now, 19 of our colleagues find themselves on the illegal russian visa ban list. this is not only disrespect to the european parliament but an insult to the eu as a whole, which bases international cooperation on transparent and peaceful dialogue. when preparing for this speech i looked for inspiration from churchill’s fulton speech. the prime minister of the united kingdom saw the dramatic geopolitical changes that were arriving in his wake when he said these words: ‘if the western democracies stand together in strict adherence to the principles [of the united nations charter, their influence] will be immense and no one is likely to molest them. if however they become divided or falter in their duty and if these all-important years are allowed to slip away, then indeed catastrophe may overwhelm us all’. when everyone in europe was tired after the war, it took great courage to name the situation, as it was – if not acted upon – possibly as dangerous as the situation created by the nazis. there are countries and people who would say the same thing about today’s situation. europe’s post-war peace order is challenged by the occupation of crimea and continuing russian military aggression in ukraine. there should be no fear in naming it that way. but the european continent had not only the cold war: it also had the fall of the berlin wall and the singing revolution, which was one of the reasons that made my speech here today possible. it all happened in a semi-peaceful way. it seemed that history has indeed come to an end: democracy and the rule of law are prevailing over aggression and unlawfulness and war. further eu enlargement is an excellent example of peaceful european order. so one could say that there is a solution, there is a possibility of building a peaceful cohabitation with all the countries on the continent. but at this moment it is not europe which will decide it. the european union adheres to the very clear principles of the rule of law, transparency and self-determination, therefore numerous different formats and initiatives were offered to russia in order to usher the russian people to the path of democracy and reform. the european union was even generous in offering strategic partnership or ‘common spaces’ initiatives, but the respect of human rights and democratic principles kept on deteriorating in russia. europe even turned a blind eye when people in the kremlin were breaking the established order of international treaties. europe did not do much when the russian troops entered georgia’s territory and remained silent during the establishment of the gazprom monopoly in certain countries and during trade wars when russia would close down its borders under political pretexts. but europe is not there any longer. after the illegal annexation of crimea, after the mh17 plane was shot down from the sky, europe took churchill’s advice and spoke out, and it will speak again, i am sure. there will be more and tougher sanctions if the international obligations set out in two minsk agreements are not respected and if more people die because the guns keep flowing through the unprotected border. europe will speak out when the rules of the internal market are challenged by uncompromising monopoly companies which long thought that corrupt deals would keep them above the law. europe will say a word or two when the political parties that disagree with the very principles of european union, like democracy, receive funding from financial institutions linked to the people running the kremlin. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, whether we like it or not – and i must stress i certainly do not – we are already back in the times of the cold war. now it is a hybrid cold war. contrary to what he says publicly, this was mr putin’s deliberate policy aim, and he fully achieved it. it is not about getting back ukraine, it is about putin staying in power. it is about the re—sovietisation of russia. the old bolshevik methods are being well tested, through external aggression and foreign enemies, internal suppression and isolation of russian society from the west. we, the democratic world, have learned our lessons from the cold war – though i do have some doubts after listening to our debates today – which are the following: a united and solid eu, a strong transatlantic partnership and full solidarity with those who cherish common values. it is also about us being able to deal with political bribery, such as in the shameful case of madame le pen’s party. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– you are on the right way: i mean you are making some progress. indeed, if you agree with some of the theses put forward by many of us, it is the right direction. as long as eu policy is based on international law and genuine partnerships – and indeed, free trade and political associations and partnerships – i think this is the right way. we have to extend our partnerships with the neighbourhood and we do not threaten the neighbours, unlike mr putin: he comes with tanks, we come with banks.
i congratulate my colleague, mr gabriel landsbergis, on a very important and timely report. the european union has for many years consistently pursued a mutually beneficial strategic partnership with russia. however, the illegal annexation of crimea, the ongoing conflict in ukraine and the blatant mention of democracy and human rights in russia itself are a serious test for the european union and a test of its solidarity. the baltic countries are well aware of the significance of russia's current neighbourhood. they were the first to feel the impact of the restrictions and sanctions imposed by russia on their economies. but he held out. for years, we've been saying that russia is using energy as a political lever. the european union must therefore draw the right conclusions and make every effort to create a strong european energy union. only a europe of solidarity, not a europe of isolation and division, will be able to withstand external pressure. the european union will therefore be expected to maintain its test of solidarity with russia.
rapporteur.– mr president, i should like to thank colleagues for the debate and for their options. we must understand that russia today is at a crossroads: but which path will it choose? the one of the old ways of cold war times, or another one of cooperation and adherence to international norms? i am convinced that the russian people are not willing to make war; they want peace, like all of us. therefore russia is capable of change, and that change will come from within. we have to support those who still dare to speak out for democracy and human rights in an atmosphere of suppression, murders, poisonings and harassment. it is up to the eu to show and encourage the russian leadership that the path of folly and aggression will not pay for russia. we continue to stand with good intentions towards russia; but saying that, it is commitments first rather than incentives first. once the minsk agreement is implemented and crimea is set on the path to be returned, europe will be ready to engage with russia. at the same time we have to be conscious about the influence that the russian leadership is trying to gain within the eu, trying to divide us and not let us be united. we have heard that – some of it today, here in this house – from some of the politicians as if they were under the influence of the kremlin. the kremlin will have to decide which path to take, but the eu will take its time to become more united, more resilient to propaganda, to trade pressures and energy wars. by our vote in this house we will send a clear and strong message to russia. we will show that europe is united and standing firmly for universal values. europe will stand committed to its principles of democracy, the rule of law and peace. (applause)
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it sets out parliament's position on the regulation fixing the adjustment coefficient for direct payments for the calendar year 2015. the parliament's notification accepts the commission's proposal with minor amendments. the eu treaties lay down the basic rule for union funding the annual budget of the union must comply with the multiannual financial framework (mff). in order to support the agricultural sector in the event of major crises affecting the production or distribution of agricultural products, a financial discipline mechanism established by the previous regulation provides for the creation of an agricultural crisis reserve by means of a minor adjustment of direct payments at the beginning of each year. parliament has given its consent to this in the present report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council fixing the adjustment coefficient for direct payments for the calendar year 2015 provided for in the regulation. in this report, parliament gave its approval to the de minimis direct payments, which are adjusted at the beginning of each year to create a reserve for crises in the agricultural sector. this is an important step towards reducing the major crises in the agricultural sector, which have a devastating impact on production and consumers.
in writing. eu direct support is essential to develop agriculture and to maintain and increase its competitiveness. it should be noted that direct payments are one of the most important instruments of agricultural policy. it is therefore essential to ensure a level playing field for all farmers and to help them to successfully absorb eu support. it should be noted that direct payments ensure a sufficient level of income and thus provide an incentive to expand agricultural activities, to compete on the market, rather than to withdraw from agricultural production. the budgetary balance requires that direct payments be used in a targeted and efficient manner. the competitiveness of farmers and the stability of their incomes must be enhanced.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a strategy for promoting gender equality, which aims at clearer objectives and better monitoring of the strategy. i agree that the new strategy for promoting gender equality should be clearer in order to tackle discrimination in the labour market, education and decision-making. it is also important to strengthen the mechanism for monitoring its implementation. the european parliament is to vote on the draft resolution on monday and decide whether to approve it the following day.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because we still face problems and challenges in europe in the field of gender equality. we still have an unresolved problem of the wage gap, and this affects the lives of both working and older women, because women, on lower wages, receive lower pensions and are more likely to be poor in old age. these problems must also be addressed in terms of non-discrimination in the labour market, adequate and secure social guarantees and reconciliation between family and professional life. the fight against all forms of violence against women and girls should be a priority on the gender equality agenda, and we therefore call on the commission once again to initiate a european legislative act on combating and preventing violence against women. in addition, women are still significantly underrepresented in political, public and economic decision-making, and discrimination still occurs in business, business and politics. the report therefore calls on the commission and the member states to raise awareness of women's training opportunities in these areas and to ensure that women have the same opportunities as men to obtain appropriate jobs and pursue careers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the eu strategy for equality between women and men after 2015 because the european union has not yet achieved true gender equality according to the index compiled by the european institute for gender equality, the eu countries score on average only 54 out of 100. we must work to ensure that women and men are not discriminated against on the basis of their ethnic group, sexual orientation, religious beliefs, disability, class, nationality or age. until these equal rights issues are addressed, the european union will not be able to fully achieve its economic and social objectives, and gender equality must be understood as a strategically important global challenge to be addressed.
in writing. i do not support the distortion of the traditional family concept. i'm just for traditional marriage between a man and a woman. a family is the union of one man and one woman. i therefore oppose any further consideration of options or the extension of the concept of family. family policy is a matter for each member state. the family, where children are born of the union of a man and a woman, is one of the cornerstones of that state, and by rejecting the concept of the family or by narrowing it down to same-sex marriage, we are destroying that foundation. it is necessary to support and encourage the efforts of the member states to preserve traditional values. the rights of sexual minorities cannot be defended blindly without mentioning or ignoring the interests and rights of other people. sexual orientation cannot and should not be a reason for exclusive rights. it is necessary to ensure equal opportunities and equal treatment for men and women. it is therefore essential that women and men should have equal opportunities to exercise their freedom of choice in deciding how they want to pursue their careers and balance work and family life.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to review the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries. in the eu, intellectual property-based industries account for about 39% of all economic activities and around 26% of all jobs. nevertheless, since the entry into force of the trips agreement (1 january 1995), only a small number of important ipr agreements have been concluded, although the nature of ipr has changed substantially as a result of technological and societal changes. the communication properly identifies the need to promote research and innovation, the difficulties in accessing medicines and environmental change as important issues of the present and the future. any external policy initiative has implications for internal policies, and it is therefore important that the eu improves its internal intellectual property rules.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution because it is a statement by parliament on the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries. the eu's competitiveness is increasingly and will continue to depend on creativity and innovation. intellectual property rights help to foster innovation and creativity, and their protection is essential to european competitiveness, and the union needs to develop a broader strategy to protect its intellectual property rights in working with third countries' trading partners. in this resolution, parliament welcomed the commission's efforts to strike a balance between the different interests. the parliament criticised, however, the lack of clarity in the 2014 communication from the commission on the means and methods to be used to achieve the objectives set out in the communication, in particular the resources to be allocated and the sources of those resources, in particular in the light of the limited resources currently available to support european rightholders exporting their production to or seeking to establish their activities in third country markets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on a strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries, because, although technological and societal changes have also led to changes in intellectual property rights, their protection is an essential challenge to european competitiveness in dealing with third countries. intellectual property rights help to stimulate innovation and creativity, thus promoting competitiveness and the european union moving forward.
in writing. i believe that the commission's proposal to revise the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries is a step towards a more ambitious strategy. it is necessary to ensure that intellectual property rights are properly protected not only in the eu but also beyond. given the nature and scale of the potential infringements, the strategy should be better adapted to the digital environment and include strong cooperation with customs and market surveillance authorities and ensure horizontal consistency. it should be noted that intellectual property is a legal and economic incentive mechanism. in addition, intellectual property rights act as a mechanism to attract investment by demonstrating innovation potential. in this context, clear measures and methods should be established to help achieve the objectives pursued. sufficient financial support should be granted to european right holders exporting their production to or seeking to establish themselves on third country markets.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it is a parliament's call for an eu action plan to renegotiate the protection of intellectual property rights. the resolution notes that the eu is faced with a high incidence of infringements of intellectual property rights and that the scale and cost of these infringements are of concern and that the commission is reporting on this in its report on the application of the directive on the enforcement of intellectual property rights. these figures also show the importance of intellectual property rights to the european economy in global competition due to infringements of intellectual property rights, including counterfeiting, stunted growth, job creation, innovation and creativity, moral and economic damage to european companies and substantial economic and financial losses to governments. parliament therefore stressed that, in order to ensure innovation, creativity and competitiveness, it was essential that the measures for the protection of intellectual property rights were transparent and that the public and all other interested parties had access to all the information. in the resolution, parliament also called attention to the fact that during the financial crisis, when financial support for the cultural sector was severely curtailed, intellectual property rights were often a major source of income for creators. it therefore stressed that ensuring fair compensation for developers should be one of the key aspects of the eu action plan.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the eu action plan for a renegotiation of the protection of intellectual property rights. the countries of the european union face a high number of intellectual property infringements each year, as well as suffering significant financial and economic losses at both the state and business levels. in order to ensure competitiveness and innovation in business, the european union must combat and ensure the protection of intellectual property rights.
in writing. in particular, the eu action plan must ensure effective and evidence-based enforcement of intellectual property rights. it would also help to promote innovation, creativity, competitiveness, economic growth and cultural diversity. i believe that ensuring fair remuneration for creators should be one of the key aspects of the eu action plan. it is also essential to give legal protection to new works as soon as possible in order to stimulate investment and create more innovation. as the use of the internet continues to grow, illicit products are being distributed around the world in an instant. this creates difficulties in identifying and combating infringers of intellectual property rights, as infringements become more international, complex and diverse. it is therefore essential to develop a comprehensive strategy for intellectual property rights at eu level. this strategy should establish a comprehensive legal framework to combat it infringements, adapted to the online environment, in full respect of fundamental rights and freedoms and the principles of fair trial, proportionality and data protection.
the notifier. ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to thank the commission very sincerely for the excellent cooperation and very fruitful consultation, and the shadow rapporteurs for the fruitful cooperation and hard work. ladies and gentlemen, the energy security of the european union is of particular importance in the current geopolitical context. europe's dependence on energy resources not only hinders our ability to pursue an independent foreign policy, but also affects the competitiveness of our industry and the daily lives of all our citizens. therefore, without better communication, cooperation and a united voice with third countries, europe will not be able to achieve a coherent energy policy and energy security. we must ensure that solidarity between member states in the event of disruption of external energy supplies is not just words but concrete actions. i believe that we need to pay particular attention to the coordinated diversification of suppliers, routes and energy sources and to the increase and promotion of local energy production. we have and can use local energy resources, and this includes fossil fuels, renewable energy and advanced technologies, where europe leads with its innovation and skilled workforce, and we must make better use of this potential. as has been repeatedly stated, an effective internal market is the basis for ensuring energy security and solidarity between member states. we must pay sufficient attention to the development of connections and their optimal use. it should be borne in mind that europe still has energy islands and that their security requires their integration into continental european networks. finding the right balance between the different energy sectors will be one of the key challenges of the energy union. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not want to repeat the importance of energy efficiency, renewable energy and the decarbonisation of the economy. energy security inevitably involves all energy-related issues. i am convinced that the implementation of the european union's internal and external energy policy is equally important. however, i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the fact that the issue of security must remain at the heart of this report. the aim of this report is not to decide how many energy efficiency targets we need to achieve or how many buildings we need to renovate, but to set out the main guidelines on which to base our security in both the long and short term. other energy-related issues should not be subordinated to security and can be further explored in the framework of the european energy union policy. i would like to thank everyone once again and urge you to support this report in the vote tomorrow.
i congratulate my colleague algirdas saudarga on his comprehensive and very important report. i have three observations: 1.the emergence and deepening of tensions between the european union and russia sends a strong signal to the entire european union to move as quickly as possible towards a fully connected, integrated and resilient energy union. but such a union is only possible if there is a strong political will to take tough decisions. the use of energy resources as a powerful political lever against the european union is dividing it, creating internal tensions and damaging the economy. 2.i shall promote a regional approach to energy security. the commission should make specific proposals taking into account the energy specificities of the individual regions of the european union and assessing the optimal combinations of energy types. one of the key tasks in the field of energy security is the synchronisation of the baltic electricity networks with the continental european networks. 3.the commission has not yet presented a strategic approach to the development of nuclear energy in the european union, although the energy action plan presented by the commission emphasises the role and importance of nuclear energy in the future generation of clean electricity. however, no action has been taken to date to provide political support to those member states which wish to continue to use or develop nuclear energy.
i would like to congratulate my colleague algirdas saudargas on a very well-drafted document. the document balances the technological aspects with the security of energy supply. many of the solutions he proposes, such as the development of local renewable energy, are well-suited to address both security and environmental challenges. and, most importantly, by successfully implementing the proposed green energy measures, by producing our own energy resources, we will be able to make a significant contribution to the achievement of other european union objectives, such as the creation of new jobs in the regions. we greens in the report find a stronger call to abandon allegiance to the artifacts of the past century, which can cause great damage to nuclear energy and great damage to fossil fuel-based energy. the report could be further improved by opening the european energy market to partner countries committed to european values. (the president agreed to answer the question put by the person who raised the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to the question posed by the blue card. the questions you are asked are indeed very important, but we must first choose a reliable, safe, environmentally friendly, non-polluting waste for future generations, sufficiently cheap and environmentally sustainable energy. i think that's our priority. and as far as the nuclear plant is concerned, i can say that during production, if there are no accidents, everything is fine. but then how do we deal with the issues of spent fuel, nuclear waste? today, europe has no answer, only a solution for 50 years. what's next? it's gonna take thousands of years to work with him.
madam president, i do not like the word ‘strategy’ in our discussions. i think we are beyond that, and we need action. the energy market is waiting for action and not strategy. today we have a situation in europe where three member states are dependent on one external supplier/operator for the operation and balancing of their electricity network. currently a third country – russia – can significantly influence electricity systems in these member states. this creates vulnerability, not only from a technical perspective, but, given the current geopolitical situation, it also diminishes significantly the level of energy security. it is not enough to build adequate infrastructure within, and between, member states to develop a resilient energy union. full eu support should be given to end the situation. synchronisation should constitute a part of the energy union concept. without this concept, the energy union would not be full and consistent. we need solidarity, cooperation and a european approach among member states to end this unacceptable situation.
the notifier. i thank the commissioner for his patience in listening to us for almost three hours. he actually saved me a lot of time on this talk, because he gave a great summary of the whole discussion. i can fully endorse and subscribe to this summary. and i'm not going to repeat that, because to go on about it would be like going out to the endless sea. i would just like to say one thing, which the honourable member of the commission has emphasized, that the really important task was to strike a balance between the various things. and not just mechanical balance, but to achieve a meaningful balance to give it content. i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we have succeeded in bringing together some of the material, because for the first time all the issues that are not new to us have been discussed so widely. they've discussed it many times. but they were viewed from a security perspective. and not just the old questions, but all the questions that are now emerging with the european energy union in the making. so i think we've done a lot of hard work, we've created some content. i urge you to support him in the vote. i would like to thank the commission again for the excellent and timely initiative and the very meaningful and informative communication. i want to thank my fellow shadow reporters very much. we had some tense but very meaningful discussions. i would like to thank once again all our colleagues, both my own and those of our group, and the interpreters and colleagues of the shadow rapporteurs, who have done the very difficult technical and political work. i thank you all very much and i invite you to vote on this report tomorrow.
i can only sympathize with you, commissioner, in the fact that you have to represent us today on a rather complex issue which has been discussed by the former members of the european parliament and the committee on budgetary control for many years and will probably continue to be discussed for many years to come. and today, in this room, there is a certain disagreement, and a rather cardinal disagreement. and i think we should avoid that in the future. it has been said that there are certain procedures, and we too, as politicians or members of the european parliament, must follow them. first, that both the supervisory committee and olaf should be assessed on the basis of the facts. and it is certainly true that we need to have olaf's report, to assess what has been achieved, so that there are no misunderstandings about the initiation of certain cases and the outcome of those cases. and i think that's going to be settled. the director of olaf is appointed in accordance with procedures which were discussed during the last term of office for almost a year. so does the supervisory committee. and the main role - i certainly understand this - has to be played by the european commission and in particular by the commissioner responsible for these matters. if you only exchange views in september on problems that have existed for years and that cannot be solved in any way, we will not achieve any results for several years. i therefore propose that the commission take the initiative.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to ratify the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol. the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change was signed in 1997 and sets an internationally binding emission reduction target. the european union has committed itself to reducing its total greenhouse gas emissions by 8% between 2008 and 2012. in 2012, the council agreed to propose an overall quantitative eu emission reduction commitment of 20% compared to 1990 levels. this so-called doha amendment establishes the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol. i agree that ratifying this amendment will be a clear sign that the eu and its member states are committed to tackling climate change at international level and are leading the way in this process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports the decision on the conclusion on behalf of the eu of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the unfccc and the overall implementation of the commitments made thereunder. the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change was signed in 1997 and sets an internationally binding emission reduction target. in 2002, the eu ratified the protocol and committed itself to implementing its provisions in stages. the eu has committed to reducing its total greenhouse gas emissions by 8% compared to 1990 levels in the first period (2008-2012) and by 20% compared to 1990 levels in the second period (2013-2020). the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol, which began on 1 january 2013 and will end on 31 december 2020, and legally binding emission reduction targets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft recommendation for a council decision on the approval, on behalf of the european union, of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and on the implementation of the commitments entered into thereunder. under this amendment, the eu countries, together with iceland, commit to a second emission reduction period, during which they will have to reduce their average annual greenhouse gas emissions by up to 80% by 2020. in addition, the amendment includes a number of procedural points to help ensure that this objective is achieved. i believe that the adoption of this recommendation shows that the european union is committed to delivering on its promises and to tackling climate change on an international scale, thereby encouraging the whole world to join the fight.
in writing. this ratification decision reaffirms the commitment and leadership of the eu and its member states in addressing climate change issues at international level. it is important to note that the formal entry into force of the doha amendment must be one of the key objectives of the european union. the eu is a welcome leader in all its commitments to combat climate change. but that's not enough. the eu's example should be followed by other countries. the most polluting countries need to do much more to combat climate change. effective results in the fight against climate change can only be achieved at the global level. it is therefore essential to use all possible political, diplomatic and economic means to persuade the aforementioned countries to sign a binding international agreement.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal for a council decision providing a basis for the approval of the doha amendment to the agreement between the eu and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, on the participation of iceland in the joint fulfilment of commitments under the kyoto protocol. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to ratify the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol. the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change was signed in 1997 and sets an internationally binding emission reduction target. the european union has committed itself to reducing its total greenhouse gas emissions by 8% between 2008 and 2012. in 2012, the council agreed to propose an overall quantitative eu emission reduction commitment of 20% compared to 1990 levels. this so-called doha amendment establishes the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol. i agree that ratifying this amendment will be a clear sign that the eu and its member states are committed to tackling climate change at international level and are leading the way in this process.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it supports the conclusion of the decision on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the eu-iceland commitments under the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol to the unfccc. iceland is a country in annex i to the kyoto protocol that has achieved its individual target in the first commitment period. the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures are imputable to the state. the commission also notes that the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures are in line with the environmental objectives of the icelandic environmental protection agency. iceland has indicated its intention to implement the commitments in the second commitment period together with the eu and its member states. iceland is a member of the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) and is subject to the eu greenhouse gas monitoring mechanism regulation. the application of eu legislation requires that iceland be given the same rights and obligations as member states with common commitments. iceland has an interest in sharing its commitments with the eu and its member states, whether or not it joins the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, on the participation of iceland in the joint fulfilment of the commitments of the european union, its member states, and iceland, of the other part, under the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change. i think that iceland's inclusion in the eu's fight against climate change shows that we have to fight for our planet not in the eu member states, but on an international scale. the eu is one of the world's leaders in the fight against climate change because its targets are ambitious, understandable and legally binding. we must therefore not hesitate to set an example for other countries and encourage them to contribute to a cleaner, safer world.
in writing. agree to the conclusion of the agreement. the conclusion of this agreement demonstrates the eu's commitment to a rules-based multilateral system. at the same time, it is a great example for other countries to take joint action to address climate change issues at international level. in order to limit the average global warming to below 2°c below the industrial level, it is necessary to reduce the impact of human activities on climate change without delay and to take urgent collective action. without urgent action, climate change will have painful, far-reaching and irreversible consequences for all people on the planet. a global climate change agreement, with commitments to reduce greenhouse gases across the international community, is needed to achieve the targets. it is worth noting that the eu has long been a leader in the fight against global climate change. the eu is a driving force in international climate change negotiations, consistently supporting a broad-based policy to combat climate change.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for croatia to accede to the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters. this commission recommendation on a council decision aims to make the adjustments necessary as a result of croatia's accession to the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters and to the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or officials of eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports the commission recommendation on croatia's accession to the 2000 convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the eu and its relevant protocols. the 2012 act concerning the conditions of accession of croatia to the eu facilitated croatia's accession to conventions and protocols concluded by member states in accordance with article 34 teu. the act of accession states that the council will adopt a decision fixing the date of entry into force of these conventions for croatia and making any adjustments necessary for this new member state to accede to them. this decision therefore seeks to bring about the adjustments required by the accession of croatia to those conventions and protocols.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention of 29 may 2000 on mutual assistance between the member states of the european union in criminal matters, approved by the council in accordance with article 34 of the treaty on european union, and to the protocol of 16 october 2001 annexed thereto. parliament adopted a resolution amending the legal details of the act concerning its publication and entry into force. i believe that the establishment and implementation of appropriate legal procedures will help the eu to function better and be more transparent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for croatia to accede to the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or officials of member states of the european union. this commission recommendation on a council decision aims to make the adjustments necessary as a result of croatia's accession to the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters and to the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or officials of eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it expresses parliament's support for croatia's accession to the 1997 convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the eu or officials of member states. the treaty of accession of croatia establishes a simplified framework of conventions and protocols concluded by member states on the basis of the eu treaty in connection with the accession of croatia. annex i to the act of accession lists the relevant conventions and protocols. the 1997 convention on the fight against corruption involving eu officials or officials of member states is included in the list. the commission's recommendation on the council decision is precisely the one that seeks to bring about the adjustments necessary for croatia's accession to the convention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention of 26 may 1997 on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or officials of member states of the european union, drawn up in accordance with article k.3 (2) (c) of the treaty on european union. i think we need to ensure that all legal procedures within the eu run smoothly and efficiently without creating additional friction.
in writing. - i voted for this proposal on the state of eu-russia relations. as the report rightly points out, the eu has for many years consistently sought to develop a mutually beneficial strategic partnership with russia. however, the illegal annexation of crimea, the ongoing conflict in ukraine and the apparent erosion of democracy and human rights in russia itself are a serious test for the european union and a test of its solidarity and focus. the baltic countries know better than others what the current russian neighbourhood means. they were the first to feel the impact of the restrictions and sanctions imposed by russia on their economies, but they have been the last to withstand. we have been saying for years that russia is using energy as a tool for political pressure, and the eu must draw the right conclusions and make every effort to create a strong european energy union by eliminating the energy vulnerability of individual member states. only a europe of solidarity, not a europe of isolation and division, will be able to withstand external pressures, and it is therefore desirable to expect the eu to pass the solidarity test with russia.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it expresses parliament's position on the state of eu-russia relations. in this report, parliament reiterated that russia's direct and indirect involvement in the armed conflict with ukraine and its illegal annexation of crimea, as well as its violation of georgia's territorial integrity and its economic coercion and political destabilisation of europe's neighbours, are deliberate violations of democratic principles, fundamental values and international law. the eu cannot therefore envisage a return to normal relations at this stage and has no choice but to critically reassess its relations with russia in order to counter russia's aggressive and divisive policies. in the report, parliament also stresses that the solution to the conflict in eastern ukraine can only be political. in the report, parliament also expresses its deep concern about russia's support for and funding of radical and extremist parties in eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr gabrielius landsbergis, member of the european parliament, on the state of eu-russia relations. in adopting this report, parliament recognised both direct and indirect russian military action in ukraine. it was also concluded that these russian actions constitute a deliberate violation of the fundamental democratic principles and values which are shared not only by the european union but also by much of the world. for this reason, the european union has no intention of returning to normal relations with russia and will review them in the near future in order to counter the kremlin's aggressive and divisive actions against eu states and their partners.
in writing. categoricism is not the strongest expression of diplomacy. in such a geopolitical situation, issues need to be resolved through peaceful negotiations and diplomatic means. i don't think climbing, trying to corner each other, is going to do any good. we need to look for other options, other languages, other formats. world history shows that more difficult situations have been faced and resolved. eu-russia relations must be based on respect for international law and dialogue. a long-term, constructive relationship should be established, with mutual benefits. it should be noted that cooperation cannot be developed without mentioning international principles, european values, norms and international commitments. the minsk agreements and other international agreements must therefore be fully respected in the interests of peace and democracy. in particular, the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine must be respected. cooperation may only be resumed following the full implementation of the minsk agreements.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal for a european energy security strategy. i congratulate my colleague algirdas saudarga on his comprehensive and very important report. i have three observations. first, the emergence and deepening of tensions between the eu and russia sends a strong signal to the eu as a whole to move as quickly as possible towards a fully connected, integrated and resilient energy union. but such a union is only possible when the political will is there to make the difficult choices. the use of energy resources as a powerful political lever against the eu divides it, creates internal tensions and undermines the economy. secondly, i support a regional approach to energy security. the commission should make specific proposals taking into account the energy specificities of individual eu regions and evaluate the optimal energy mix. one of the key tasks is the synchronisation of the baltic electricity networks with the continental european networks. thirdly, the commission has not yet presented a strategic approach to the development of nuclear energy in the european union. although the energy action plan submitted by the commission emphasises the role and importance of nuclear energy in the future generation of clean electricity, no action has been taken to date to provide political support to those member states that wish to continue to use or develop nuclear energy.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the rapporteur highlights the crisis in ukraine, which has reminded the european union of the importance of energy security and of its crucial role in consolidating a strong european political and economic position. the geopolitical vulnerability of the energy market has made energy policy one of the strategic foreign affairs priorities. the european union therefore needs to develop an energy policy based on a coherent and unified approach. although significant progress has been made in recent years in improving the eu's energy security, the eu still faces a number of challenges, such as instability in energy supply regions, fragmentation of the internal market and climate change. the communication sets out actions to reduce energy demand, increase local energy production and develop energy technologies, and further actions to create a fully integrated and well-functioning internal energy market, solidarity and coordination mechanisms.
in writing. ‒ the eu’s dependency on energy imports diminishes its energy security, as seen in 2009 russian-ukrainian gas crisis. this is apparent due to the persistently negative energy trade balance. today, of europe’s gas consumption, 60% is imported – nearly half of that from russia. more than 30% of oil is also imported from russia. well-developed and interconnected gas infrastructure is one of prerequisites for reducing member states’ vulnerability in relation to disruptions from a single or/and dominant energy supplier. we have to achieve an internal energy market, also through transparency, competition and synchronisation and by building closer links with the us liquefied natural gas (lng) market. early notification of bilateral agreements with russian energy companies must be applied in every case and collective purchasing system for energy should be established. this would prevent russian state-owned companies from abusing their favourable positions and imposing unfair, diversified prices for the member states. finally, have to apply without hesitation the principle of rule of law to a dominant supplier, and to any energy company having a role in the eu energy market. russian companies who want to have their share and benefits in the eu energy market must comply with established eu norms and rules.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution on the 2014 annual activity report of the olaf supervisory committee. it shall identify weaknesses in relation to the activities of olaf. limited access to information is the main reason why the supervisory committee cannot fully guarantee the independence of olaf, the transparency of investigations, the application of procedural safeguards and the appropriate duration of investigations. in such a situation, the monitoring and control of olaf's investigations cannot be properly carried out, which in essence poses a serious threat to the activities and reputation of this institution of major importance to the eu. i agree with the positions expressed by my colleagues that it is necessary to improve the working arrangements between these institutions, to define more precisely the role and powers of the supervisory committee and the nature of the exchange of information with olaf. the commission should mediate in these negotiations with a view to a clearer definition of the scope of the institutions' activities. it is important to remember that olaf has around 500 staff whose work should not be hindered by disagreements between olaf and the supervisory committee.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is the parliament's assessment of the 2014 annual report of its olaf (european anti-fraud office) supervisory committee. the olaf supervisory committee noted in its 2014 annual activity report that in 2012, when olaf was reorganised, 423 cases were opened on the same day by a decision of the director-general of olaf, but that olaf had not properly assessed the information received in respect of any of the cases examined, that in most cases there were no indications of evaluation activities and that the director-general of olaf had opened all those cases without establishing in advance that there was sufficient suspicion of fraud, corruption or any other illegal activity affecting the financial interests of the union, which did not meet the requirements for opening an investigation by olaf under the legislation in force at that time. for all these reasons and others, parliament urges the commission to assist in the negotiations between olaf and the supervisory committee and to draw up an action plan by 31 december 2015 aimed at amending the agreement on practical arrangements in order to improve the operational conditions for the supervisory committee to carry out its tasks in the context of olaf's supervision. this is very important, as olaf's objective is to investigate cases of fraud, corruption and serious irregularities in the eu institutions affecting the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee because i believe that certain actions of this committee are ineffective and need to be corrected. in 2014, the olaf committee resolved only 8,4% of the cases referred to it, failed to implement the recommendations of the sc and misallocated its resources. i think we need to ensure that the eu committees and institutions work transparently, efficiently and quickly, even if this requires supervision. this will not only improve the way the eu works, but also promote the proper allocation of resources and resources.
in writing. first of all, adequate democratic controls must be ensured. it can never go beyond the limits of legality. the supervisory committee is responsible for supervising olaf's independence, its investigative function, the application of procedural safeguards and the duration of investigations. close cooperation is essential to ensure that the activities of the institutions are properly evaluated. it is worth noting that olaf has repeatedly proposed a new revision of the working arrangement in order to reach a practical agreement satisfactory to both parties. during the examination of the annual report 2014 of the olaf supervisory committee by the committee on budgetary control, representatives of olaf and the supervisory committee had to be invited to attend the meeting. in order to resolve the situation, it is necessary to hold a public debate on olaf's replies to opinions and other documents. the commission should also play a crucial role as an intermediary in the negotiations between olaf and the supervisory committee. the review of the rules of procedure of the agreement shall be carried out as soon as possible. the role and scope of the supervisory committee are clarified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution condemning repeated calls by hungarian prime minister viktor orbán for a debate on the potential reinstatement of capital punishment, and denouncing other misleading and unbalanced rhetoric linking migration to terrorism and discrediting eu institutions. such official state rhetoric in hungary is wrong and must be repudiated. not only is it in violation of the eu treaties, it is also morally appalling and it therefore raises questions about the current state of the rule of law, democracy and human rights in the country. i am convinced that eu member states should remain entitled to launch national consultations: however, such consultations should be drafted responsibly and within the framework of the fundamental values of the eu and respect for eu law, not only at legislative but also at administrative level. with regard to these worrying developments in hungary, i believe the commission should make sure that relevant monitoring mechanisms are in place to assess the state of democracy in hungary.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution on the situation in hungary. the resolution summarises the discussions on the situation in hungary with prime minister viktor orbán and vice-president frans timmermans at the may plenary session. the resolution was prompted by statements by mr orbán on the possible reintroduction of the death penalty in the country and by the hungarian government's public consultation on immigration. i think the council should react more actively to the recent events in hungary and the member states should commit themselves to ensuring that the rule of law is respected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it expresses parliament's position on the situation in hungary. parliament decided to adopt this resolution as the recent events in hungary had raised concerns about the situation in the country. hungarian prime minister viktor orbán has made several statements this year about the need for a public debate on the use of the death penalty in the country, and recently in an interview on national public radio he added that the decision to re-introduce the death penalty should be the exclusive competence of the member states, thus departing from the provisions of the eu treaties. the hungarian government has also recently launched a public consultation on migration, which is essentially a positive phenomenon for the state, but the issues raised in this consultation have been criticised for their suggestive and rhetorical nature, assuming a direct link between the migration phenomenon and security threats. in its resolution, parliament therefore strongly emphasised that the death penalty is incompatible with the union's fundamental values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, and recalled that a member state's serious breach of the values enshrined in the eu treaty would be subject to the eu treaty infringement procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in hungary because i believe that the fundamental principles of democracy, the rule of law and human rights, which are the guiding principles of the eu, have been violated in hungary. the debate on the reintroduction of the death penalty, initiated by hungarian prime minister viktor orbán, and the anti-migration propaganda initiated by the hungarian government are not in line with eu values. we must not only monitor hungary's actions, but also establish a universal mechanism to help maintain harmony and democracy in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion on the progress report on turkey. the reform process under way in the negotiations with the eu could be a major opportunity for turkey to build a strong pluralistic democratic system with strong institutions and benefits for all turkish citizens, as well as to establish a closer relationship with the eu. i support the requests to the commission to re-evaluate the state of negotiations so far and how eu-turkey relations and cooperation could be improved and intensified. the eu must help turkey to build strong democratic institutions and an effective legislature based on respect for fundamental freedoms, human rights and the rule of law. i agree that concrete progress should be made on visa liberalisation, based on the implementation of the requirements set out in the visa free action plan with turkey.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it expresses parliament's position on the 2014 progress report on turkey presented by the commission. in its communication 'strategy for growth and key challenges 2014-2015', the commission concluded that turkey is a strategic partner of the eu in terms of economic and energy security and that cooperation with turkey on foreign policy issues is necessary, but in the same communication the commission expressed concerns about the protection of fundamental rights, the independence of the judiciary, the rule of law, the right to freedom of assembly and expression. in its resolution, parliament therefore recalled that, in order to enhance stability and promote good neighbourly relations, turkey must make greater efforts to resolve outstanding bilateral issues, including those arising from outstanding legal obligations and disputes with its immediate neighbours over land and sea borders and airspace, in accordance with the provisions of the un charter and international law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission's 2014 progress report on turkey. this report highlighted turkey's achievements in the areas of the copenhagen criteria, such as the democratic and rule of law, respect for human rights and the protection of minority rights, the development of good relations with neighbouring states, and the ability to take on the obligations and objectives of the member states of the european union. this report is of crucial importance for the consideration of turkey's membership suitability and prospects.
on behalf of the ppe group.– mr president, the situation in the black sea basin has fundamentally changed due to russian aggression against ukraine and the annexation of crimea by russia. the military balance has significantly shifted towards entrenchment of russian military dominance in the black sea. there is a country in the region, a neighbour of the eu, which used to benefit from cooperation with european democracies but which, for many years, has been steadily preparing itself for military endeavours instead. we used to close our eyes to this tendency. experts estimate that since 2009, putin has increased defence spending in roubles more than 20 times over. we all know the economic and social challenges russia now faces, but this does not stop putin spending up to 34% of the national budget on defence and security. too many european nato member states do not manage even 2%. there are new realities for the countries of the region, and they are not the reflection of a greater peace. russia is testing the boundaries of our security. it is up to the eu and nato to make it clear to russia that in the current world you cannot send tanks or amass military forces whenever you think things are not going your way. you cannot bully your neighbours or tear independent states apart. the annexation of crimea will never be recognised, and the minsk agreement must be implemented. the eu must stay firm on this principle because, if the trend is not stopped in ukraine, the limits of our security will be tested further. the military balance in the black sea region may be restored by strengthening our transatlantic link and by a bigger nato presence and increased cooperation under the common security and defence policy (csdp) but, in addition, we should help threatened countries to take more responsibility for security in their region. countries that have the most direct security concerns, due to the changed realities, could combine their efforts by creating a joint military battalion for military exercises, increasing interoperability and furthering modernisation. the issue of the occupation and annexation of crimea should not be abandoned. there are legal ways to challenge it, including by requesting a legal opinion from the international court of justice. it is important to make clear to those responsible for violations of international law and human rights that a crime does not go unpunished. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – well, it is very obvious that the united nations – even the united nations – called this an illegal act of war. so i do not think it is too much, in this house, to call a spade a spade. whenever i hear arguments like that put forward, the only resemblance i hear is to words that come from the kremlin, and i am saddened to hear them in this house. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– first of all, i understand the situation that our friends in romania and bulgaria find themselves in, having lived for so many years in an area that was apparently an area of peace and recreation and now is an area where, supposedly, nuclear armaments might be kept. the situation has changed dramatically. just a few hours ago this parliament voted in favour, by a big majority, of the eu—russia relations report. the report states that there are a lot of things that the eu can do. for one thing, the eu can no longer put new ideas on the table and wait for russia to change its policies.
i congratulate my colleague mr pașcu on the preparation of this very important report. the black sea basin is one of the most important regions in the world. however, it is also of strategic importance to the european union as an external border for security and defence and for the development of the eastern partnership. the black sea basin has become largely a de facto military zone following the change in the balance of power following the annexation of crimea and russia's illegal control of hundreds of kilometres of the crimean coastline. such changes in the geostrategic situation require an effective response by the european union. the security and stability of the region require a wide range of measures, including the modernisation and strengthening of the military capabilities of the member states of the european union in the black sea basin. i fully agree with the rapporteur that these developments, as well as the increased russian pressure on the eastern border of the european union, as noted in the report, the use of disinformation as a weapon must be taken seriously and properly reflected in the european security strategy.
in writing. ‒ the black sea basin is strategically an extremely important region for the eu, its member states and associated partners. however, due to the changes in its geopolitical landscape defined by russia’s aggression and its illegal annexation of crimea, the security situation in the region has been deteriorating rapidly. i believe it is crucial that we do not turn a blind eye but condemn russia’s aggression by favouring a strong and united eu policy towards its authorities. we must adequately respond to the fact that russia is investing in its military capabilities, such as bolstering its air and naval defences and modernising the black sea fleet, as well as be ready to counter its employment of hybrid warfare tactics and propaganda machinery. i hold the view that as long as the crimea remains occupied, as long as russia is funding bandits in the eastern part of ukraine and does not change its offensive policy, the eu must remain firm in keeping their sanctions against russia and simultaneously update and make the best use of such instruments at its command as the eu security strategy and the eu neighbourhood policy in order to preserve security of the black sea basin and the eu neighbourhood.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion on the strategic military situation in the black sea basin following russia's illegal annexation of crimea. the sea basin is one of the most important regions in the world. however, it is also of strategic importance to the european union as an external border for security and defence and for the development of the eastern partnership. the black sea basin has become largely a de facto military zone following the change in the balance of power following the annexation of crimea and russia's illegal control of hundreds of kilometres of the crimean coastline. such changes in the geostrategic situation require an effective response by the european union. the security and stability of the region require a wide range of measures, including the modernisation and strengthening of the military capabilities of the member states of the european union in the black sea basin. i fully agree with the rapporteur that these developments, as well as the increased russian pressure on the eastern border of the european union, as noted in the report, the use of disinformation as a weapon must be taken seriously and properly reflected in the european security strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it reaffirms the illegality of russia's annexation of crimea and draws attention to the changed strategic military situation in the black sea basin. the black sea basin is one of the most important strategic regions in the world, of major importance for the eu and its member states, in particular with regard to ensuring their security and defence, and also important in the context of the eu's neighbourhood policy and the eastern partnership. parliament noted that the military balance in the black sea basin had changed following the illegal annexation of crimea and that russia now illegally controlled hundreds of kilometres of the crimean coast and its waters opposite the nato and eu maritime border. parliament expressed concern at the high threat of increased russian pressure on the eu's eastern border, including on romania, poland and the baltic states, and called on eu member states to continue to adhere firmly and unitedly to the agreed sanctions against russia, to suspend all military and defence cooperation and to terminate agreements such as the supply of mistral-class amphibious assault ships to russia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the strategic military situation in the black sea basin following russia's illegal annexation of crimea. russia's illegal and aggressive actions have reshaped the strategically important black sea region, resembling cold war actions and forcing the eu to take security action. eu countries must remain united and strong, remember their obligations on sanctions against russia and rely on the collective security provided by nato. in addition, member states must also find ways to strengthen their internal security by increasing their defence budgets to at least 2% of the national budget by 2024. meanwhile, nato must commit to defending its members in the event of conflict and to maintaining its naval and air superiority in the black sea region. only by working together can we prevent future conflicts and be safe.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution, which rightly evaluates a significant change in the military balance in the black sea basin after the occupation and annexation of crimea by russia. by violating ukraine’s territorial integrity, in breach of a number of its international commitments and norms, russia is trying to entrench its aggressive military domination in the region and to challenge europe’s security. thus the black sea region became a new security concern for both eu and nato. in view of these developments the eu must review its outdated security strategy, strengthen support for eastern partnership (eap) countries, respond to a challenge of massive disinformation, propaganda and hybrid threats, consolidate its policies and resilience, and send a clear message to russia that from now on no more incentives will be proposed without russia respecting its commitments first. another important message parliament is sending to the russian leadership is that the occupation of crimea will not be forgotten. the international community must take the case of the annexation of crimea to the international court of justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the recent high-level corruption cases revealed in fifa and the choice of venue for international sporting events. i support calls to take account of the human rights situation in the country that is bidding to host the event. major sporting events such as the first european games, which will begin in baku on 12 june, should promote respect for human rights and universal values.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it expresses parliament's outrage at the systematic and shocking corruption uncovered by fifa and calls on sports organisations, member states and the eu to cooperate fully in all current and future investigations into the alleged corrupt practices of fifa. parliament also stressed the importance of the swiss and us judicial authorities investigating the decision of the fifa executive committee to award the hosting rights to the 1998, 2010, 2018 and 2022 fifa world cups to france, south africa, russia and qatar respectively. parliament also stressed the importance of ensuring that the further investigation into past corruption practices within fifa would include, where justified, the removal of all officials who had committed financial irregularities and the review of decisions relating to corruption or criminal activity, and called on the eu to closely monitor this process and to provide the necessary conditions for an impartial external investigation. finally, parliament endorsed the statement by the head of the fifa audit and compliance committee that the rights granted to host the 2018 and 2022 fifa world cups could be revoked if evidence is found that the granting of these rights was the result of corruption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the recent high-level corruption cases revealed in fifa. sport is a very important part of many people's lives, and football, one of the most popular sports in the world, should not be associated with corruption and set a bad example. we have to fight against ambiguity and corruption. the eu must seek to protect sports organisations and their members from such incidents, in order to put in place certain safeguards to help globally minded sports federations to operate properly and avoid such scandalous situations.
in writing. corruption and other illegal activities in sport must be prevented in all their forms. the fifa scandal has had a negative impact not only on football but also on the entire sports world. the commission has also provided a report on the implementation of the new fifa code of conduct. fifa must thoroughly review past and current decisions and ensure full transparency in the future. good governance of sports organisations is essential to promote the principles of democracy in our society. it shall be based on the principle of the utmost respect for democracy, transparency, ethics, financial fair play, legality and human rights. an effective regulatory framework is needed to strengthen the fight against organised crime and police and judicial cooperation in the fight against corruption. it is necessary to investigate all possible allegations of corruption by fifa officials on eu territory.
the question asked when the blue card is raised. indeed, there are many problems in individual countries: unemployment, income, economic growth. the plan is presented in individual cases as a plan that would address all these issues. i agree with the need for a plan in general, but what percentage of the problems that are raised do you think that plan will solve?
in writing. i welcome the commission's proposal for a european fund for strategic investments, which aims to bring europe out of recession. the objective of the fund is to create new jobs, increase long-term employment, and attract private capital and investment. new incentives to boost investment investment backed by eu guarantees can restore confidence in future growth among investors, public authorities and industry. by attracting new investments, the european fund for strategic investments can become a key driver of a new investment cycle that creates new jobs and opportunities. these new investments are needed not only to rebuild the eu economy, but also to rebuild a social europe that our citizens can trust and believe in. in order to increase employment, the number and quality of jobs created by the fund must therefore be assessed, with particular attention to the working conditions in the jobs created. member states should promote active labour market policies to ensure that the skills of their workforce are adapted to the needs of sectors with high investment potential. the success of this fund will depend on the willingness of the private sector to invest, and the incentives for the private sector should be as high as possible. in addition, the european structural funds should be used to contribute to the financing of projects in order to maximise the job creation potential of these financial instruments.
in writing. i support the agreement on the european fund for strategic investments. it is encouraging that from 2015 onwards, more risky projects will be supported and investment will be made in countries and sectors where the need for job creation and economic growth is greatest. i am pleased that, despite difficult negotiations, parliament has managed to reduce the budget cuts for the research programmes and the european infrastructure networks instrument under horizon 2020. i fully agree that there is a need to promote investment in economic recovery, job creation and industrial competitiveness through a range of measures, but this should not be at the expense of other viable and well-functioning programmes. it is therefore now necessary to ensure that the fund supports forward-looking projects that will have the greatest impact on economic growth, help europe to achieve its objectives in the fields of energy, climate, digital markets. we must ensure that the fund operates in a transparent and democratic way. the next step is to seek to attract as much private and public investment as possible, to encourage all member states to contribute to the fund and thus to ensure its stable growth. whether the juncker plan will be able to generate the desired boost for the european economy will be seen in time, but it must not be forgotten that this fund, like others, is an additional incentive alongside other european union initiatives and will not replace the necessary structural reforms.
the european commission is currently carrying out zoning and introducing strict restrictions for african swine fever in the territory of lithuania. nevertheless, african swine fever continues to spread among wild boar and has recently been found in new areas accordingly. more than half of lithuania's territory is currently infected with this disease. a coherent strategy for the fight against african swine fever is urgently needed, which should include specific actions for the eradication of african swine fever in feral pigs and the prevention of the introduction of feral pigs carrying african swine fever into the territory of the european union. in countries affected by african swine fever, it is necessary to intensify the campaign to inform citizens about the risks and prevention measures of african swine fever. it is clear that the measures taken so far have not produced the desired result and have not prevented the virus from entering the territory of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted on this report, which deals with the request for waiver of the immunity of mr sotirio zarianopoulos, member of the european parliament, in connection with the case pending before the third unified court of first instance of thessaloniki. sotirios zarianopoulos is accused of threatening physical violence and of illegally entering the premises of the greek public television channel ert-3 on 3 and 4 march 2010 to interrupt the noon news and read a report. this case clearly has no connection with the duties of sotirio zarianopoulos as a member of the european parliament, as it relates to the actions of the greek trade union pame. in addition, sotirios zarianopoulos was not a member of the european parliament at the time of the commission of those acts. after hearing the member and examining the documents submitted by him, the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament decided to recommend the waiver of the member's immunity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the request to waive the immunity of the member of parliament sotirios zarianopoulos. the member of parliament is accused of threatening physical violence and of illegally entering the premises of the greek television station ert-3 in order to break into the midday news and to make a public speech. such an action by mr zarianopoulos is not related to his parliamentary activities and therefore the greek supreme court has the right to request the waiver of his immunity and to initiate a judicial procedure. i believe that both members of the european parliament and other politicians must behave ethically and with dignity, despite the immunity granted to them.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the request to waive the immunity of mr udo voigt, member of the european parliament. he is accused of incitement against any national, racial, ethnic, religious or other group of people and of collective insult in a publication published by the national democratic party of germany (npd) during the 2006 fifa world cup, for which he was responsible as party chairman. udo voigt submits that the length of the proceedings initiated in 2006 demonstrates a desire to impede his parliamentary work, but that, since the present request for waiver of immunity is made in respect of additional proceedings initiated in respect of a remedy which udo voigt himself has invoked, the principle of nemo auditur propriam turpitudinem allegans (latin: 'no one may invoke his own stupidity') applies to that objection. the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament recommends that the immunity of udo voigt be waived and that this decision be referred immediately to the competent supreme court of the land of berlin for further consideration of the case of this member of parliament.
in writing. - i voted for the request to waive the immunity of member udo voigt. voigt is accused of inciting discord and insulting the national democratic party during the 2006 fifa world cup, as voigt, as party chairman, is responsible for the party's publications. the infringement is not directly connected with voigt's work in the european parliament and therefore the berlin court has the right to initiate legal proceedings. i believe that both members of the european parliament and other politicians must behave ethically and with dignity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal on the european investment plan presented by the commission, which aims to mobilise €315 billion in support of the eu's economic recovery. it strengthens the oversight of the european fund for strategic investments and the ep's role in appointing its management, and also clarifies the structure of the fund's financing. the new fund will take part of the funding from the horizon 2020 programme and the european infrastructure networks instrument. however, to maintain successful programmes, it is ensured that the costs of these programmes are reduced. i agree that the creation of quality jobs should be one of the selection criteria for projects to be funded by the new fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because europe urgently needs a new and complementary initiative to boost growth and create jobs. in this context, the proposal to establish a european fund for strategic investments, which could provide, in conjunction with other measures, an immediate stimulus to the economy, should be welcomed. it is expected that this fund, if well planned and managed, will increase much-needed employment in the medium and long term. the fund is expected to mobilise eur 315 billion over three years and to create 1.3 million additional direct and indirect jobs. the potential impact of the fund on employment will depend on a number of factors, in particular the fund's capacity to support projects with job creation potential, the extent of private capital attraction, the compatibility of the fund with other applicable instruments and the timely access to funds and complementary instruments applied in labour markets. to ensure the effectiveness of the european fund for strategic investments, the european commission will also initiate and support additional measures to ensure greater regulatory predictability and to remove barriers to investment, thus making europe a more attractive place to invest.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission's proposal for a european fund for strategic investments. the commission's proposal aims to lift the european economy out of recession by creating new jobs, increasing employment and attracting private investment and capital. to compete with the world's economic leaders, the us and china, we need to ensure that europe's economy is strong as a whole and that member states take all possible measures to ensure future growth.
in writing. ‒ following the economic crisis, the level of investment in the eu has dropped and has never come back to its ordinary level since. smes within the eu are still facing the consequences of the financial crisis and incentives are needed in order to motivate businesses to come back to various risky fields. an investment plan for europe together with the establishment of the european fund for strategic investments does exactly that by aiming to address gaps in the market and mobilising private investment. the plan will have strong positive implications on sectors connected to education, research and innovation, which will consequently lead to economic growth and job creation. therefore, i invite everyone to support this plan and contribute to further implementation of the plan domestically and throughout the eu.
in writing. ‒ the european investment plan, which aims to mobilise €315 billion in support for the eu's economic recovery, will stimulate investment in europe and, in turn, contribute to economic growth and job creation in europe. this is an innovative instrument and it is therefore essential to remove any ambiguity as to the funding scheme of this fund. in particular, this fund shall not be financed from the budget of the horizon 2020 programme and the european infrastructure networks instrument. investments are needed in projects, services and infrastructure that can help tackle emerging challenges that threaten prosperity and well-being. the agreement and clarification of the funding structure of this fund, the strengthening of the supervision of its implementation and the enhancement of the role of the european parliament in the appointment of the management of the european fund for strategic investments are to be welcomed.
in writing. i voted for the juncker plan. in my opinion, this is a very important project, which is also relevant for lithuania. it is a great step forward. i hope this project will be implemented. i would encourage more development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015, the european globalisation adjustment fund shall be mobilised to provide the sum of eur 630 000 in commitment and payment appropriations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports the commission's proposal to finance technical assistance for the management of the european globalisation adjustment fund from the fund's own budget in order to ensure better visibility and operational efficiency of the egf as a union instrument of solidarity with workers made redundant. this instrument, provided for in the egf regulation itself, is proposed to be used to increase the efficiency of the commission's processing of egf applications and to reduce the time taken for the evaluation and approval of applications by the parliament and the council, to extend the list of eligible actions and beneficiaries to include self-employed persons and young people, and to finance incentives for entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management (paris egf/2015/000 ta technical assistance at the initiative of the commission). the egf was established to provide assistance to workers affected by major structural changes in world trade patterns and, by financing technical assistance for the management of the egf from the budget of the egf itself, the eu will contribute to the enhancement of the visibility and effectiveness of the egf. it is essential to ensure that the institutions, organisations and funds set up in the eu make the best use of member states' funds and work as efficiently and productively as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the implementation of the proposals contained in it will improve the work of the european union countries, their ministries, municipalities, public institutions and will make it easier for them to absorb the funds allocated by the egf. the improvements will therefore make access to the fund simpler and more understandable for eu staff in the member states and public institutions.
in writing. ‒ the i support the proposal to mobilise the fund to finance technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. it is essential to ensure that support is used in a targeted and targeted manner. in particular, monitoring and data collection as well as information should be financed. this will allow for more efficient collection of data on applications received and their publication on the website. in addition, measures to raise general awareness of the egf and its visibility will be promoted. in order to alleviate the administrative burden on member states and to simplify the application process, investment is necessary in the development of a database and application interface. this is essential to provide more effective advice to member states on the use, monitoring and evaluation of the egf.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is the european parliament's way of presenting its recommendations to the commission on the future governance of the euro area. in the report, parliament recognises that drastic measures were needed in the face of the crisis, but not all of them were right, and that it is now necessary to agree on a review of the governance of the euro area. parliament welcomed the commission's proposed three-pillar framework for the governance of the euro area, based on investment attraction, fiscal consolidation and structural reforms, but called on the commission to take greater account of the situation of each country in assessing draft national budgets and in making country-specific recommendations. parliament also welcomed the commission's proposed limited fiscal flexibility, allowing member states to temporarily exceed the 3% of gdp deficit threshold if necessary to stimulate strategic investment in the country, without applying the automatic so-called surplus budget procedure.
in writing. ‒ although the report 'review of the economic governance system: assessment and challenges' was adopted, i voted against it because it is not fully prepared. in particular, the eu has not yet been able to properly summarise and assess the six and two-point packages, which contain significant changes to the previous rules. secondly, the structure of the economic governance framework still needs to be strengthened, especially in the area of the implementation of structural reforms. thirdly, this report does not guarantee the level of democratic decision-making in the future. it is a pity that we have not been able to convince our colleagues in parliament that this report should be returned and corrected. i voted in favour of many amendments to the report which bring it at least a little closer to the quality and level that the alde group hoped for.
in writing. ‒ the i believe that the solutions proposed will not reduce social inequalities, longterm unemployment and growing poverty. the community's economic and financial autonomy cannot be further restricted while at the same time the autonomy of the member states is further diminished. it should be noted that the reduction in public spending under fiscal consolidation plans did not contribute to the reduction of social exclusion and economic growth, but on the contrary led to a weakening of social protection. the economic situation in the eu countries is not good, and we need solutions that will lead to more jobs and a reduction in social exclusion. the current system of economic governance has not been adjusted economically, socially and politically. the system therefore needs to be fundamentally revised, restoring fiscal and monetary autonomy to the member states. in this context, urgent, comprehensive and decisive action is needed to tackle problems such as high unemployment, rising poverty and excessive inequality.
i am really glad that this issue is being discussed today and i thank my colleague james nicholson for his work, but i would like to say that unfortunately this problem is only growing and getting worse. this is a very important issue for the village. and i want to say that the processors are already so self-indulgent that, for example, last week in lithuania, they refused to buy all the milk for 12 cents and the farmers were forced to pour some of the milk into the manure. these are totally intolerable things. and i think that if we do not want to regulate at european level, we must give the member states the opportunity to do so as soon as possible. and in those countries where milk purchase prices are significantly below the european average, we must provide aid as soon as possible, otherwise the huge european money invested will simply be wasted. so why do we invest if we don't then create the conditions to protect those investments.
in writing. i would like to emphasise that the transatlantic trade and investment partnership comprehensive free trade and investment agreement is the most important eu-us project of recent times. the successful implementation of this partnership will provide a new impetus to transatlantic trade, thus contributing to sustainable economic growth, job creation, increased international competitiveness and direct benefits for eu and us citizens and businesses. i believe that through transparent negotiations, a balanced, comprehensive, ambitious trade and investment agreement will be reached that will benefit both sides. however, it is important to ensure that access to us markets is not at the expense of the high standards applied in the eu in various fields. i particularly support the intention to include a separate chapter on energy in the agreement. i believe that there is a need for closer cooperation in energy research, technological development and innovation, and for the promotion of high standards of energy production sustainability and energy efficiency, and low-carbon and green technologies.
in writing. this report is a follow-up to the resolutions adopted by parliament during the previous term of office on the negotiations on transatlantic trade and investment. the aim was to provide as much information as possible and to give the members of the various parliamentary committees the opportunity to contribute to this important process. meps have the greatest influence on the final version of trade agreements between the eu and third countries. the agreement can only enter into force if parliament gives its consent. the rejection of the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) showed that parliament takes a very responsible view of its role in shaping trade and foreign policy. in view of the many critical views expressed by european society and the low level of public support for the agreement under negotiation, parliament should seek the greatest possible transparency to ensure that only a good agreement is approved, one that respects european values, promotes sustainable growth and contributes to the growth of the well-being of all citizens. let us also not forget the issue of visas, which is of great importance to europeans. the visa facilitation for european suppliers of services and goods is one of the key elements for realising the full potential of the contract. the negotiations also need to increase political pressure to ensure full reciprocity and equal treatment, without discrimination, of all eu citizens in the visa regime. the commission should also promote the highest global standards of human rights, decent work and universal access to quality public services in the negotiations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which approves the appointment of bettina michella jakobsen as a member of the court of auditors. she's a good candidate, she's got all the qualifications. ms jakobsen is currently deputy auditor general, heading the citizens' department, which is responsible for auditing the most important areas of concern to citizens, such as the ministry of employment, the ministry of children, gender equality, integration and social affairs, the ministry of economy and home affairs, the ministry of health, the ministry of church affairs and the ministry of culture. responsible for auditing the finances, compliance and performance of six ministries, as well as the performance of the central government on reimbursements to municipalities and regions. it has four directors and a staff of approximately 50. member of the management team (executive board) of the danish national audit office. as deputy auditor general, ms jakobsen was responsible for, among other things, various citizen-related reports to the public accounts committee, including: women's shelters, measures taken to help homeless people, the length of time taken to process cases in the public administration, miscalculated social security contributions, integration measures, mental health care at the workplace and research resources in hospitals. as deputy auditor general, she was responsible for preparing the 2013 and 2014 audit reports on public accounts for the public accounts committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the nomination of bettina michelle jakobsen as a member of the court of auditors because i believe that bettina michelle jakobsen is an excellent candidate with an impeccable record and experience. in addition, jakobsen complied with the requirements of the committee on budgets. it is good to see people like you in the eu institutions!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to codify the existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the consultative working party of the european parliament, the council and the commission concluded by consensus that the present proposal for a regulation laying down community procedures in the field of the common commercial policy seeks only to codify existing texts without changing their substance. this regulation lays down the procedures of the european union in the field of the common commercial policy to ensure the exercise of international trade rules, in particular the rights conferred on the european union by the world trade organisation (wto), which are designed, in compliance with existing national obligations and procedures, to take action against barriers to trade affecting the european union market in order to eliminate the damage caused by them. it also provides for measures to be taken against barriers to trade affecting the market of a third country in order to eliminate the negative effects on trade which they cause.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the union's rights under international trade rules. i believe that the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the union's procedures in the field of the common commercial policy to ensure the implementation of the union's rights under international trade rules, in particular those established under the auspices of the world trade organisation (wto), will only contribute to ensuring the safety and efficiency of the eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to codify the existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the consultative working party of the european parliament, the council and the commission has unanimously concluded that the present proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of ships against injurious pricing is intended only to codify the existing texts without changing their substance. this regulation is important because it is desirable to provide clear and detailed guidance on the factors that may be relevant in determining whether an injurious sale has caused material injury or threatens to do so. in order to demonstrate that injury has been caused to the union industry by a particular level of sales price, it is necessary to take into account the impact of other factors, in particular the prevailing conditions on the eu market. it is also necessary to define the procedural and substantive conditions for lodging a complaint concerning an injurious pricing, the extent to which such a complaint should be supported by the eu industry and the information on the buyer of the vessel, the injurious pricing, the damage caused and the reasons for it that should be included in such a complaint. it is also necessary to lay down the procedure whereby the information requested by public authorities should be communicated to interested parties. interested parties should be given ample opportunity to present all the necessary evidence and to defend their interests.
in writing. - i voted for the report on protection against injurious pricing of ships. this communication on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of ships against injurious pricing seeks only to codify the existing texts without changing their substance, thus ensuring their safety. i think that ensuring the security of legislation is very important, especially in the light of the rapid development of information technology.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which seeks to resolve an institutional conflict arising from a disagreement over the precise legal basis.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation on the granting of fishing opportunities to fishing vessels flying the flag of the bolivarian republic of venezuela in the exclusive economic zone off the coast of french guiana in eu waters. the processing industry in french guiana is partly dependent on the exploitation by venezuelan fishing vessels of the living natural resources in the exclusive economic zone off the coast of french guiana. as this activity is of economic and social importance in the region, venezuelan fishing vessels are authorised to fish in this area for many decades, but part of the catch must be landed in french guiana ports. the landing and processing of fishery products is thus an important source of income and employment in french guiana. in the absence of an international fisheries agreement between the eu and venezuela, the cooperation between the two countries is not subject to the requirements of the union legal order. however, in practice, venezuelan fishing vessels are allowed to operate. in this context, the commission has submitted a proposal in which the european union has committed to transfer fishing rights to venezuelan vessels. the legal solution found, i.e. a council declaration submitted to the european parliament for approval, stating that the legally binding european union acts on the conservation and management of fisheries resources (common fisheries policy and other rules) are being complied with, is an appropriate solution given the small scale of this fishing activity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution of fishing opportunities in eu waters for fishing vessels flying the flag of venezuela off the coast of french guiana. in my opinion, the council continues to act reluctantly to accept the european parliament’s competences in the field of fisheries under the lisbon treaty. nevertheless, the european court of justice supported the european commission and the parliament’s claims. the report is to be considered as a crucial step to end the long-standing competence conflict existing between the two co-legislators and to unblock the ‘frozen’ negotiation process where no fisheries management plan has been able to be adopted during the last 5 years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to include in the 2015 budget the surplus of eur 1.4 billion for the financial year 2014. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as draft amending budget no 3/2015 seeks to include in the 2015 budget the surplus for the financial year 2014. the european parliament regrets the tendency in the council to withhold money from existing programmes by using additional resources provided under the special instruments, instead of fulfilling its commitments to countries in need of assistance and which have fulfilled the conditions for mobilising the eu solidarity fund. parliament underlines its intention to adopt draft amending budget no 3/2015 and draft amending budget no 4/2015 as presented by the commission as soon as possible. we also endorse the council position on draft amending budget no 3/2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 3/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, which includes the surplus of the financial year 2014. i think it is of the utmost importance for the european union, as a great institution, to have proper control of its finances and to aim for budgetary balance. this draft amending budget will help to achieve the budgetary balance for 2015, which is important to ensure in view of the surplus in the eu budget in 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to mobilise the eu solidarity fund for romania, bulgaria and italy. draft amending budget no 4/2015 concerns the mobilisation of the amount of eur 66 505 850 in commitment and payment appropriations from the esfs in response to the two floods in romania in spring and summer 2014, the floods in bulgaria in july/august 2014 and the floods in italy in october/november 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the countries affected by the floods need to receive financial assistance from the european union solidarity fund (essf) as a matter of urgency, given that the essf expresses solidarity with the people of the disaster-stricken region. the european parliament regrets the commitments made in the council to countries affected by a major disaster and therefore eligible for the mobilisation of the essf, to implement them rather through the use of funds allocated to other programmes than through the mobilisation of additional resources as provided for in the specific instruments. the parliament stresses that the current critical situation of payments makes it impossible to use any other source of funding than that proposed by the commission as indicated in draft amending budget no 4/2015. it should be borne in mind that the essf is a special instrument for which the corresponding appropriations must be entered in the budget, without prejudice to the relevant ceilings of the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the communication on the council position on draft amending budget no 4/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, attached to the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for romania, bulgaria and italy. i believe that the countries affected by natural disasters need to receive financial support from the essf as soon as possible, given that the essf expresses solidarity with the people of the region affected by the disaster. floods in romania, bulgaria and italy have caused significant damage to the economic industries and infrastructure of these countries, and eu support and assistance are therefore essential to help normalise the situation following natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to mobilise the eu solidarity fund for romania, bulgaria and italy. draft amending budget no 4/2015 concerns the mobilisation of the amount of eur 66 505 850 in commitment and payment appropriations from the esfs in response to the two floods in romania in spring and summer 2014, the floods in bulgaria in july/august 2014 and the floods in italy in october/november 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which proposes to mobilise the european solidarity fund (esf) for flood-affected romania, bulgaria and italy. the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the european union to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to disasters and to show solidarity with the people of regions affected by disasters. romania, bulgaria and italy submitted applications in respect of floods in their respective countries. the applications submitted complied with the provisions of the essf regulation and the commission considered it necessary to grant assistance to these countries. the decision now needs to be approved by the european parliament and the council. the rapporteur recommends that the commission's proposal for a decision, which is annexed to this report, be accepted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, in accordance with point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management (floods in romania, bulgaria and italy). this proposal will help us to show solidarity with the people of the regions of romania, bulgaria and italy affected by the disasters.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to make it possible to buy a single ticket for all modes of transport. the eu and the ec are encouraged to improve the exchange of timetable information between different modes of transport (air, rail, water and road) to enable the introduction of an integrated ticketing system and to enable people to travel door-to-door with just one ticket. the long-term objective of the integrated ticketing system is to provide comprehensive information on travel offers from public and private companies in air, rail, water and road transport across the eu, while enabling travellers to enjoy seamless multimodal and cross-border door-to-door travel. travellers should be able to choose the most sustainable, fastest or cheapest travel option tailored to their individual needs, book and pay for it online and travel with one ticket only, irrespective of the number of different modes of transport they use during the journey, on the basis of comprehensive information. however, such detailed information is not yet available. therefore, before the idea of selling integrated tickets valid for all modes of transport used in a single journey can be put into practice, it is necessary first of all to ensure non-discriminatory and equal access to detailed information. moreover, the introduction of an integrated ticketing system entails significant costs and technical barriers, and therefore these measures should not increase the price of tickets for a particular mode of transport to such an extent that it becomes unattractive for users.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which proposes the creation of an integrated multi-modal ticketing system in europe. the aim of such a system is to provide comprehensive information on travel offers from public and private companies in air, rail, water and road transport throughout the european union, while enabling travellers to enjoy a seamless multi-modal and cross-border door-to-door experience. travellers should be able to choose the most sustainable, fastest or cheapest travel option tailored to their individual needs, book and pay for it online and travel with one ticket only, irrespective of the number of different modes of transport they use during the journey, on the basis of comprehensive information. however, such detailed information is not yet available. therefore, before the idea of selling integrated tickets valid for all modes of transport used in a single journey can be put into practice, it is necessary first of all to ensure non-discriminatory and equal access to detailed information. moreover, the introduction of an integrated ticketing system entails significant costs and technical barriers, and therefore these measures should not increase the price of tickets for a particular mode of transport to such an extent that it becomes unattractive for users. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the development of an integrated multi-modal ticketing system in europe. european transport policy faces many challenges. on the one hand, sustainability, economy, energy efficiency and environmental sustainability must be ensured, and on the other hand, congestion issues such as congestion and other transport problems must be addressed. information, planning and ticketing services for multimodal transport across the eu are an important aspect of addressing these issues. i welcome the fact that the commission has established, by means of a delegated act, the specifications necessary to ensure that real-time traffic information services are available, exchanged and updated throughout the eu. this is a good step in the right direction, but a few more steps are needed to enable european travellers to choose the most sustainable, fastest and cheapest door-to-door multimodal transport, to book and pay for it, and to be informed before and during the journey about possible disruptions or alternative routes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for the extension of the term of office of the committee on special decisions concerning taxes and other measures having similar effect or effect.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the extension of the mandate of the committee on special decisions on taxes and similar measures because i believe that the work started must be done in a qualitative way and completed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to finance the juncker guarantee fund with eur 1.36 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 10 million in payment appropriations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as amending budget no 1/2015 aims to transfer the necessary changes to the budget nomenclature in line with the provisions of the legislative agreement on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). the european parliament welcomes the fact that the determination of all the institutions to ensure that the esif becomes operational as soon as possible has enabled an agreement to be reached quickly on this fund. while the negotiations have produced a better outcome than the commission's initial proposal, it regrets the negative impact on the horizon 2020 programme and the european infrastructure networks (ein) instrument. parliament also regrets the fact that funds are generally transferred from the european infrastructure networks facility and the horizon 2020 programme, which are the main programmes for jobs and growth in europe. the european parliament considers that investment in research and transport is crucial to reinforce the role and the purpose of the european union budget in promoting growth, competitiveness and employment and to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the communication on the council position on draft amending budget no 1/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, section iii commission proposal annexed to the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european fund for strategic investments amending regulations (eu) no 1291/2013 and (eu) no 1316/2013. with this report, the committee on industry, research and energy invites the committee on budgets responsible to include in its motion for a resolution proposals calling for the support of strategic investments with high economic and social added value, the promotion of sustainable innovation, skills and local jobs, the enhancement of eu competitiveness and the contribution to the union's strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. i believe this is crucial to ensuring economic growth and stability in the eu.
in writing. - i agree. the esif will enable the european union to act in the face of transnational challenges in the areas of energy, environment and transport infrastructure requiring major investments, by helping to attract private investors to implement innovative projects needed by the public sector. the approval of the esif requires all member states to work in a targeted manner to establish appropriate and clear benchmarks for the submission of projects by smes and to ensure that information on the opportunities offered by the esif reaches the widest possible range of potential investors. we need to think not only of the opportunities for 'new' investment, but more of the fact that the esif must be used first and foremost to strengthen the economic growth and competitiveness of each eu country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for an additional €69.9 million in support for migration policy. an additional eur 69.9 million will be allocated to the three agencies managing migration flows to the eu and to the various eu migration funds. in view of the challenges of managing the increasing flows of migrants in the mediterranean, the ep has consistently called for increased funding for this area. the budget for commitments of eur 75,7 million and payments of eur 69,9 million will come from the galileo budget for the european satellite navigation programme and will reach the eu external borders management agency, the european asylum support office and the european police office (europol).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as draft amending budget no 5/2015 aims to strengthen the european union's resources for managing migration and refugee flows following the recent disasters in the mediterranean and the increase in the flow of migrants. it is important to note that migration flows can lead to high costs in other policy areas if they are not managed effectively and in a timely manner. the european parliament regrets, however, that the amount of the proposed increases in this draft amending budget is limited and does not meet current needs in the context of the continuing and likely worsening crisis in the mediterranean region. it is also important to assess the growing risk of a rise in refugees from ukraine, as well as the need to address migration issues in general. on the other hand, it must be stressed that the use of these funds must be strictly controlled to avoid any abuse. parliament regretted the division in the council between the member states on the commission's proposal for a 'european agenda on migration' and recalled that the nature of the migration phenomenon meant that an emergency situation could be more effectively managed at eu level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015 responding to migratory pressures. with this report, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs calls on the committee on budgets responsible to include in its motion for a resolution proposals which call for a response to the problems posed by migratory trends and the unprecedented situation in the mediterranean region. the committee notes, for example, that additional funding is proposed for frontex, in particular for operations 'triton' and 'poseidon', and urges that the primary objective of these operations be to save lives at sea. i believe that in order to avoid further deaths at sea, we must continue to uphold the principle of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility.
in writing. ‒ objective: to strengthen the monitoring of the milk market and to seek additional measures to overcome crises. the dairy legislation in force since october 2012 provides farmers with tools to respond to the challenges facing the dairy sector. with the help of producer organisations and interbranch organisations, stronger contractual relations and greater negotiating power have been established. formal written contracts and stronger contractual relationships have provided farmers with the right tool and reinforced the obligation of operators in the milk chain to take account of market signals, to increase the impact of price changes on the final price and to match supply to demand, and to help avoid unfair commercial practices. i agree that the commission should take the necessary steps to ensure that the milk market observatory reaches its full potential. the commission should also examine the possibility of predicting the structure of pricing in future markets in the medium term and enhancing the competitiveness of the sector.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report as the ban imposed by russia on imports of dairy products from the european union since august 2014 has had a negative impact on the eu internal market. this situation has thus demonstrated the need to be prepared for the application of market-based measures in crisis situations, whatever their nature. it is also important to ensure a diversified export market for eu products, especially as global milk demand is likely to increase, and to ensure a stable and sound internal market. the european parliament recalls that the aim of the dairy package is to achieve a viable, sustainable and competitive dairy sector in the european union, with operational measures to ensure fair remuneration for milk producers. the volatility will continue to be a challenge for the dairy sector. dairy farmers are particularly exposed to income fluctuations linked to high capital expenditure, volatile dairy prices and fluctuating resource and energy prices. moreover, farmers in the dairy sector often occupy a weak position throughout the food supply chain and are particularly exposed to unfair trading practices. the increasing age of milk producers is also a concern and encouraging and promoting generational renewal through existing and new measures is therefore necessary for the future development and stability of the sector.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report 'the future of the eu milk sector. monitoring of the implementation of the dairy sector acquis.' since the dairy legislative package, which has been in force since october 2012, and which provides farmers with tools to respond to the challenges facing the dairy sector, has failed to deliver on its objectives, the eu needs to take new measures. this communication sets out the position on which the commission should take the necessary action to ensure that the milk market observatory reaches its full potential. the information provided by the milk monitoring centre should include updates on market and price trends and should be more accessible and user-friendly than in its current presentation. the activities of the milk monitoring centre should be supported by the member states by providing timely and appropriate information and the commission is recommended to explore additional ways of obtaining such information in a timely manner. the strengthening of contractual relations provided for in the dairy code is a concrete method to ensure a more even distribution throughout the supply chain. the communication invites the commission and other eu milk sector players to explore the potential of long-term integrated supply chain transactions, advance transactions, fixed margin transactions, ab transactions and the possibility of fixing the price of milk for a certain period. this should help to strengthen the dairy industry in the future, which is also important in lithuania.
in writing. ‒ the russian embargo on eu dairy imports has hit european farmers, including lithuanian farmers, hard. dairy farmers, especially small family farms, are not well protected against income fluctuations and their livelihood from dairy farming is a constant challenge, as production costs are often equal to or higher than purchase prices. in addition, the abolition of milk quotas which has entered into force also raises a number of issues and challenges which require new measures and proposals from the commission. in view of these and other problems facing milk producers and processors, the european parliament in its report calls on the commission to provide new financing options for the member states, including through the european investment bank (eib), and to implement the reform of the milk industry.
in writing. the dairy sector is of great importance to lithuania. the pressure on the dairy industry is particularly high as dairy prices fall. lithuania is particularly interested in exporting dairy products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to encourage eu companies, especially smes, to participate in cfp projects. although ppps are a long-term measure of government policy at international, national and regional levels, they lack an internationally recognised definition and a comprehensive regulatory framework. i support calls on the commission to promote the definition of a ppp, which could be recognised internationally as a long-term relationship between public entities and private investors, with the aim of providing quality and accessible public services and infrastructure. european companies, especially smes, would benefit greatly from greater participation in large international projects in terms of job creation, productivity, competitiveness and technology and innovation, as well as from and economic growth throughout the eu and in host countries.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which stresses the need to promote decent job creation, competitiveness and productivity in the european union and in third countries through innovative policies and new measures to stimulate economic activity in order to re-energize sustainable growth. public-private partnerships (ppps) could drive growth for eu businesses and at the same time benefit our third-country partners by providing infrastructure, goods of common interest and services. the rapporteur for the european parliament considers that some of the positive experiences with the cfp are the result of better project delivery, a good quality or value-for-money ratio, access to long-term financing for infrastructure construction costs, the promotion of innovation and research, the involvement of the private sector in the design and implementation of projects, as well as the benefits of financing, a more flexible and qualified management environment, the allocation of resources to well-established companies and smes and the strengthening of the competitiveness of eu companies and their ability to participate in public procurement in third countries.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the external impact of eu trade and investment policy on public and private sector initiatives in non-eu countries. i believe that some of the positive experiences with the cfp have been gained through better project delivery, a good quality or value-for-money ratio, access to long-term financing for infrastructure construction costs, the promotion of innovation and research, and the involvement of the private sector in the design and implementation of projects. the benefits of allocating resources to well-established companies and smes and strengthening the competitiveness of eu companies and their ability to participate in public procurement in third countries also result from a more flexible and qualified management environment. i believe that there are many benefits to be gained from building, managing, maintaining or operating infrastructure in transport, public sector buildings and installations, the environment, the provision of utilities, telecommunications or energy networks, or the development of new technologies or products, and that there are risks that could be shared by the private and public sectors. i believe that european businesses would benefit greatly from being more actively involved in major international projects in terms of job creation, productivity, competitiveness and technology and innovation, as well as benefiting from and achieving economic growth across the eu. the ep also calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used to support the implementation of the eu's external policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to strengthen the bargaining power and resilience of fruit and vegetable and milk farmers. farmers should be encouraged to join producer organisations and the commission should assist them in finding new markets, in particular in view of the negative impact of the russian embargo. the european union should rebalance the fruit and vegetable supply chain, which has a turnover of more than €120 billion and employs some 550 000 people.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the development of the fruit and vegetables sector and the 2007 reform. the implementation of the common agricultural policy (cap) over the past 20 years has led to a reduction in the regulation of agricultural markets, allowing production to be directed by market forces. this general approach was particularly applicable to the arrangements in the fruit and vegetables sector, which waived the application of measures such as export refunds or minimum prices to be paid by processors to farmers for certain products. the european union has linked this process of liberalisation to a policy of strengthening producer organisations (po) to enable farmers to take action to defend their interests, for example by selling their production collectively or increasing the value of this production by processing it on the farm. the cap thus provides financial support to the octs, which they use to implement their operational programmes. the go uses such programmes to pursue various objectives consistent with their specific situation, such as investing in marketing campaigns or training activities. in march 2014, the commission published a report on the implementation of the new rules of procedure in the fruit and vegetables sector, introduced following the 2007 reform. this report provides a coherent overview of the situation in the fruit and vegetables sector, identifies areas of progress and highlights certain ongoing problems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the fruit and vegetables sector after the 2007 reform. i believe that the priority of the fruit and vegetables regime should continue to be to increase the level of organisation across the union. it is therefore necessary to strengthen the incentives for the creation of go and goa and for their merger. it is important to find ways to make addiction to od more attractive. i think the first step towards making the go more attractive should be to reduce complexity and uncertainty. in this report, parliament asks the commission to do more to protect farmers from unfair trading practices by large retailers. it does not seem to make sense to invest in the strengthening and development of the gos - a slow and arduous process - if the bargaining power in the food supply chain remains concentrated mainly in the hands of retailers. moreover, given that many member states apply national measures to address such problems, some coordination at union level is necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing.– in terms of persistent economic, social and security problems facing the union, it is very important that commission’s work programme for 2016, first and foremost, concentrates on improving its law making processes and institutional effectiveness. this way it would not only help to reduce regulatory costs but at the same time enable better coordination and synchronisation of political activities among the eu member states. this, as a result, would help to speed up the implementation of such strategic agendas as the energy union, the digital single market, growth and jobs and others. in addition to this, the eu should act as a stronger global actor. we need to be ready to take the lead and address new challenges such as russia’s aggression in ukraine in the east and the irregular migration flows on the eu’s southern borders. the commission should ensure an operative response and ability to make corresponding legislative and budgetary proposals. finally, the union needs to improve its policy coherence and systematically project its internal policy to external action, including streaming of human rights to all policy areas.
in writing. the reform of greenhouse gas emission allowances is one of the most important issues in climate change policy today. i believe that the european commission's proposed solution to create a market stability reserve will help to solve the current problems of the emissions trading system - i.e. to reduce the surplus of emissions allowances created by the economic crisis on the market, to regulate their price, to encourage industrial companies to invest in modern, environmentally friendly technological solutions that reduce greenhouse gas emissions. in view of the issues and concerns raised by the member states, the council, the european parliament, industry, environmental organisations, it can be said that the agreement reached should strike a balance between high european environmental standards and industrial interests. while this proposal addresses the problem of excess allowances to be auctioned, it does not address issues related to the allocation of free allowances or the provisions governing carbon leakage. an effective reform of emissions trading should ensure that energy-sensitive industries do not move their production capacity to third countries outside the european union that do not have such high environmental standards. it is therefore essential that the commission submits its proposals for measures to mitigate the risk of carbon leakage as soon as possible. i hope that these measures will help to maintain a balance between the european union's ambitious environmental objectives and industrial activity without reducing competitiveness.
in writing. employment policy guidelines must cover not only economic but also social aspects. the europe 2020 targets for employment, poverty and social exclusion and education are still not met and member states need to implement these guidelines as effectively as possible in order to overcome high unemployment and prevent long-term unemployment in europe without delay, and to reduce inequalities and discrimination. first, it is essential that member states make every effort to tackle poverty, especially child poverty. this can be done by ensuring affordable and quality childcare and education, effective training, ensuring a decent income for families, providing housing support and high quality healthcare for all. second, in order to reduce poverty and to improve quality employment, social inclusion and education, member states should make effective and productive use of the european social fund and other eu funds. the european fund for strategic investments should also be mobilised to ensure that quality jobs are created and that workers have the skills needed for the european union to move towards a sustainable growth and social model. it is also essential to ensure that everyone has a decent income, so that working poverty and illegal work do not spread in europe.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate our colleague, eduard kukan, on his report and thank him for his work. i really enjoyed working as co-shadow from the alde group. as a result, we now have serious input from parliament into the review process to be finalised by the commission and the external action service. the european union’s neighbourhood today is more complex, challenging and fragmented than ever. it would not be fair to blame the neighbourhood policy for all this. the european neighbourhood policy (enp) was the right and timely response after the eu enlargement and accomplished a lot, in eastern europe in particular. equally, we need a right and solid response at this stage. with all the positive things that i have to say regarding our joint work on the report, i must say, however, that i had wished for a more clear conceptual split into two dimensions of the european neighbourhood policy – the eastern partnership and the southern neighbourhood. i remain convinced that these two dimensions should be separated and allowed to develop in their own distinct direction and with no rivalry whatsoever. this split is dictated by reality on the ground and the processes that take place. nevertheless, when it comes to the main principles of our new neighbourhood policy and our report, i believe that the enp has to be ambitious, proactive and policy-driven in the first place. anything else would be seen as the eu’s withdrawal, and this area would be used as a playing field for third countries, the neighbours of our neighbours right on our doorstep – the doorstep where our security, as well as insecurity, is placed. as we all agree, the differentiation principle is becoming key in the enp. for countries in conflict, the eu should focus on conflict resolution, humanitarian work, migration and refugee challenges. the second group of our neighbours is those which currently have less interest in closer relations or in making long-term reforms. here i believe the eu should place greater emphasis on better governance and building sustainable, democratic and stable countries. the third group of our partners are those seeking an advanced level of engagement with the eu. these are georgia, moldova and ukraine, our associated members. it is clear that they are far from ready for membership today and that they need to focus very seriously on implementation of the association agreements. we cannot deny their membership perspective in the long term. the association agreements are clearly not the final step in relations between the eu and these advanced neighbours. this is certainly in the eu’s interest.
the european neighbourhood policy was created with the objective, set out in 2002, of creating an area of security and stability around the european union. the report notes that we spend very little on neighbourhood policy compared to what is spent in third countries. have we already established an area of security, stability and good governance around the european union? the revised neighbourhood policy must offer a wide range of cooperation opportunities to all neighbours. this must include financial support, access to the european union's research and industrial achievements, and openness to human contacts. well, most importantly, of course, visa facilitation, especially for young people, artists, scientists. i propose to speed up the visa-free regime for the people of ukraine and georgia. of course, the openness of the european union must depend on political conditionality. the more democratic, free and market-oriented a neighbouring country is, the more opportunities we must open to it. but above all, let us remember that the neighbourhood policy is for our neighbours. there's a saying that a good neighbor is more important than family. so neighbourhood policy must be properly funded, otherwise we risk continuing to be left wondering how to resolve conflicts in neighbouring countries or where to put the growing flows of refugees.
madam president, europe needs competitive copyright policy. europe needs to set up conditions for new innovative businesses such as spotify and netflix. at the moment, it is pretty difficult for these kinds of businesses to function in europe in a single market. creative industries today have created 8 million jobs for people linked to this sector in europe. it could be much more. it could be 20 million. that is what we should aim for, but in order to be competitive we need to be innovative. copyright reform has to be one of those innovative moves for europe. i urge the commission to be ambitious and to come up with a revolutionary copyright proposal in the autumn. let us do it. we need to give cross border access to online content, we need to ensure portability, and we need to remove legal uncertainties and inconsistencies that affect the functioning of the internal market. i hope that parliament will give clear guidance for the commission today.
in writing. ‒ the world’s biggest trade and investment partnership agreement is a big step towards deeper and more effective cooperation between the european union and the united states of america. it is a good tool to make europe stronger economically and geopolitically, to ensure jobs and prosperity for europeans and americans. however the agreement itself is not an inevitable success. we must be stubborn enough to make sure that the content of the agreement is based on our values, reflects our principles and requirements for a smart ttip. our standards cannot be lowered. this is why it is crucially important to adopt a strong european parliament resolution where the interests of europeans are well represented and which would help to achieve a desirable final outcome. i would also like to draw your attention to the fact that there are lots of concerns raised by our people regarding this agreement. they do not feel secure and so far there is no clear confidence. thus, the lively public debate and transparent negotiations on ttip are necessary. our citizens should be better informed what is happening behind closed doors.
in writing. ‒ the a proper eu agreement with the us could give the industry access to a market of 850 million consumers and increase its share of the eu's gross domestic product to 20% by 2020. however, it must be acknowledged that the conclusions of the spillover effects study do not allow a clear benefit of the agreement to the eu economy to be established. it is important to ensure that the negotiations are transparent, leading to an ambitious but balanced agreement from which all eu countries can benefit, promoting competition and eliminating non-tariff barriers to trade. i support calls for negotiators to ensure high levels of protection for eu consumers, their data, health and safety and to prevent social, fiscal and environmental dumping. the eu-us agreement should remove existing restrictions on trade in oil and liquefied gas, allowing the eu to increase energy security and reduce the price of energy resources. it is proposed that negotiations agree on a specific list of sensitive agricultural and industrial products which would not be subject to trade liberalisation or would be subject to a long transitional period. mutual recognition of public health standards is also important. the integration of the eu and us e-commerce and financial services markets should not be affected by eu data protection rules and should not be subject to concessions by negotiators.
in writing. ‒ the ep's agreement on the recommendations to the commission in the negotiations on the tipp is welcome. on the other hand, the protracted negotiations and the stormy debates in the plenary only show that emotions can sometimes blind us to the ultimate goal. the time is long overdue for the eu to conclude a free trade agreement with the world's second largest economy. in the eu, it is an opportunity to boost economic growth, job creation and new opportunities for european consumers and businesses. we cannot allow some politicians to play on the fears of the public. the ep reiterated that the agreement must not be at the expense of lowering eu standards or making the most sensitive sectors more vulnerable. the ep listened to the views of various public and interest groups. on the other hand, myths promoted by someone else that fuel hostility between social groups must not be ignored, but firmly rejected. i would urge that this be done now, because the most important decision on the ippc is still to come.
in writing. ‒ the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) is the most important eu-us project of recent times. the tip is expected to have a positive impact on job creation, growth and competitiveness in both crisis-hit economies. it is important to emphasise, however, that the importance of this agreement is not limited to commercial aspects. strengthening the transatlantic partnership is also important for us from a strategic point of view, especially in the current geopolitical context. i agree with the view of the european parliament's committee on foreign affairs that the negotiations on the tip should be conducted in the most transparent and open way possible, in order to avoid unnecessary speculation and mistrust.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to approve the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, which takes account of croatia's accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation on the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, which takes account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. those negotiations were opened on 18 december 2012, following technical consultations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia on the subject. further negotiations took place on 25 january and 10 april 2013. the government of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia confirmed its acceptance of the protocol on 25 october 2013. the protocol has been updated to take account of the 2013 eu tariff and the gradual elimination of customs duties under the saa. the commission proposes that the council, on behalf of the european union, adopt a decision on the signing and provisional application of the protocol and conclude the protocol on behalf of the european union and its member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to approve the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia, which takes account of croatia's accession to the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of renewing the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with india.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation on scientific and technological cooperation with india. the agreement between the european community and the government of the republic of india on scientific and technological cooperation, which is renewed every five years, was signed in new delhi on 23 november 2001. the agreement provides for the participation of indian research entities in the joint programme 'horizon 2020' and in other cooperation activities. regular meetings and bilateral contacts allow for a systematic exchange of information.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed the european parliament's recommendation on the renewal of the agreement between the european community and the government of the republic of india on scientific and technological cooperation. this agreement will provide opportunities for eu and indian scientists to carry out various research and technological development programmes in areas of common interest, to exchange experience, to build on progress.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation, which makes the faroe islands an associated country of the joint research and innovation programme horizon 2020 (20142020).
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation on the scientific and technological cooperation agreement with the faroe islands. the faroe islands shall participate as an associated country in the programme 'horizon 2020' established in 2013 under the conditions set out in this agreement. from the date of application of this agreement, the fares shall make a financial contribution to the annual budget of the european union for each year of implementation of the horizon 2020 programme. the financial contribution from the faroes shall be added to the amount allocated each year in the annual budget of the eu to the commitment appropriations necessary for the financial commitments relating to the implementation, management and operation of the various instruments required by the horizon 2020 programme. the representatives of the faroes shall participate in the committees established under horizon 2020 as observers. these committees shall meet without the presence of farer representatives when voting. the farers shall be informed of the results.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to approve the agreement between the european union and the faroe islands on scientific and technological cooperation. this agreement shall enable the faroe islands to participate as an associated country in the joint research and innovation programme horizon 2020.' the programme is expected to promote mutual access for research institutions to cooperate, participate in programmes to develop the field, and exchange researchers, engineers and technicians. the terms of cooperation provided for in this agreement will provide greater clarity and specificity for researchers and scientific institutions wishing to participate in horizon 2020.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to give shareholders more power in setting directors' remuneration. the new rules would give shareholders of companies the right to vote on the remuneration policy of directors at least every three years. the draft rules would also oblige some large companies and insurance companies to disclose how much they pay in taxes, profits and state subsidies in a particular country.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which amends and improves the commission's proposal for a directive on long-term shareholder involvement. the proposal for a commission directive lays down requirements for the exercise of certain shareholder rights conferred by shares with voting rights at general meetings of companies which have their registered office in a member state and whose shares are admitted to trading on a regulated market situated or operating in a member state. this directive should also apply to large companies and large groups within the meaning of directive 2013/34/eu of the european parliament and of the council whose shares are not admitted to trading on a regulated market because they also carry out activities with a significant impact. although shareholders do not own companies which are separate legal entities and which they cannot fully control, they play an important role in the management of those companies. the financial crisis has revealed that shareholders have in many cases supported management taking excessive short-term risks. moreover, more active shareholder participation in the board of directors of companies is one of the levers that can help improve the financial and non-financial performance of their operations. since shareholder rights are not the only long-term factor to be taken into account in the management of a company, they should be complemented by measures to ensure a more active participation of all actors, in particular employees, local authorities and civil society.
in writing. increase shareholder involvement in the management of the company. general meetings of shareholders should be held regularly. shareholders should have more rights.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report. the reform aims to reduce the surplus of allowances and prevent their price from falling. the new system would take effect from 2019. under the updated rules, if the number of allowances on the market exceeds a certain threshold, part of those allowances would be automatically withdrawn from the market and diverted to the reserve. they would be returned to the market if the number of allowances on the market were to fall sharply to the next limit. the current emissions overrun, which has been accumulated since 2009, is about 2 billion. contrary to the european commission's proposal, the market stability reserve will start to operate from 2019 instead of 2021.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which amends and improves the commission's proposal on the market stability reserve, together with the communication on the climate and energy policy strategy 2020-2030. the objective of this commission proposal is to implement a structural reform of the emissions trading scheme (ets) in order to reduce the surplus of allowances accumulated in the system, which is currently estimated at more than 2 billion, and to address its shortcomings in order to achieve the stated objective of promoting cost-effective and cost-effective reductions of greenhouse gas emissions. while the overall emission ceiling is guaranteed by the 2020 greenhouse gas emission reduction target, the excess allowances (atls) have a negative impact on the long-term cost-effectiveness of the system. the surplus thus hinders the proper functioning of the carbon market and has a particularly negative impact on the carbon price, thus reducing the incentive to invest in low-carbon technologies. if no solution is found, the cost of reducing greenhouse gas emissions will be enormous in the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because the reform of greenhouse gas emission allowances is one of the most important issues in climate change policy today. i believe that the european commission's proposed solution to create a market stability reserve will help to solve the current problems of the emissions trading system - i.e. to reduce the surplus of emissions allowances created by the economic crisis on the market, to regulate their price, to encourage industrial companies to invest in modern, environmentally friendly technological solutions that reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the commission proposal is to improve the working conditions of seafarers working on board ships flying the flag of any of the 28 member states of the european union, taking full account of the specific characteristics of this sector of activity. the proposal for a directive revises five previously adopted directives which did not include seafarers. the five directives in question are directive 2008/94/ec on the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer, directive 2009/38/ec establishing a european works council, directive 2002/14/ec establishing a common system for the information and consultation of employees, directive 98/59/ec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to collective redundancies and directive 2001/23/ec on the protection of employees' rights in the event of transfers of undertakings, businesses or parts of businesses.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which amends and improves the commission proposal on seafarers. the aim of this commission proposal is to improve the working conditions of seafarers working on board ships flying the flag of any of the 28 member states of the european union, taking full account of the specific characteristics of this sector of activity. the proposal for a directive thus amends five earlier directives which did not include seafarers. the commission notes that the provisions of the five directives on the exclusion of seafarers were not included in the commission's initial proposals and that these provisions were included after negotiations with other partners. the european parliament thanks the social partners for their joint work, which will open up opportunities to increase the attractiveness of the maritime sector, which has been lacking in popularity for several years. it should be stressed that the improvement of working conditions for seafarers will provide new incentives for the sector. parliament also considers that this will help to achieve the objective of increasing the number of workers in the maritime and fisheries sectors by a qualitative increase and improving their working conditions by a qualitative improvement, as set out in the commission's blue paper of 10 october 2007. the first objective cannot be achieved without the second.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the proposal to amend the specific directives governing the protection of workers in the event of insolvency or transfer of undertakings, as well as collective redundancies. in the absence of clear justification, seafarers are not or may not be covered by the scope of those directives. this proposal aims to improve the level of protection of the rights recognised in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union in european union labour law and to ensure a level playing field throughout the european union. the proposal also contributes to the general policy objectives set out in article 151 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, namely to increase employment, better living and working conditions, adequate social protection and dialogue between management and labour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of switzerland joining the iter project. having regard to the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation, by which the swiss confederation becomes an associated country of the joint research and innovation programme horizon 2020 and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community, supplementing horizon 2020, and governing the participation of the swiss confederation in the activities of the iter joint undertaking for the development of fusion energy, the european parliament gives its consent to the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation on the agreement with switzerland on cooperation in research and technological development. under this agreement, switzerland shall participate in the implementation of the horizon 2020 programme and in the activities of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the period 2014 to 2020. legal entities established in switzerland shall participate in the programmes covered by this agreement under the conditions and rules laid down in their rules of participation and dissemination, as well as in all activities of the fusion energy joint undertaking under the conditions and rules laid down by it. the swiss-community scientific research committee established by the joint agreement shall verify, evaluate and ensure the proper implementation of this agreement. any question relating to the implementation or interpretation of this agreement shall be referred to the committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement whereby the swiss confederation becomes an associated country of the horizon 2020 joint programme for research and innovation and governs the participation of switzerland in the iter activities of the joint undertaking for the development of fusion energy. the inclusion of switzerland as an associated country in horizon 2020 will enhance scientific excellence and contribute to the creation of an innovation union. the agreement should allow for the mutual benefit of switzerland and the eu from the participation in the horizon 2020 programme. the eu will benefit from switzerland's excellent research and innovation capacity, its laboratories and institutes in the fields of nuclear fission and fusion, and is a great partner for euratom research.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the employment policy guidelines of the member states shall include measures to combat poverty and to improve quality employment, social inclusion, education, public administration and public services. member states should make full use of the european social fund and other union funds in an effective and productive way. the european fund for strategic investments and its investment platforms should also be mobilised to ensure that quality jobs are created and workers are equipped with the skills needed for the union to move towards a sustainable growth model.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament makes its proposals and recommendations to the member states on employment policy. in particular, we call on the member states, in cooperation with local and regional authorities, to improve their social protection systems, ensuring basic standards to provide effective, efficient and sustainable protection at all stages of a person's life, ensuring a life of dignity, solidarity, the right to social protection, full respect for social rights, justice and eliminating inequalities. in addition, it is necessary to continue to combat growing poverty, in particular for people excluded from the labour market and for the most vulnerable groups. the problem of child poverty should be tackled with particular determination. social policy needs to be simpler, more targeted and more ambitious including by ensuring affordable and quality childcare and education, effective training and help in finding a job, housing support and high quality healthcare accessible to all, access to basic services such as bank accounts and the internet. measures are also needed to combat school dropout, in particular extreme poverty, social exclusion and, more generally, poverty in all its forms.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the granting of financial support from the european globalisation adjustment fund to the finnish company broadcom communications finland. on 30 january 2015, finland submitted an application egf/2015/001 fi/broadcom to mobilise the egf, following redundancies in broadcom communications finland and two of its suppliers or downstream companies in finland. the application was supplemented by additional information in accordance with article 8 (3) of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013. this application complies with the requirements for determining the amount of the financial contribution from the egf, as laid down in article 13 of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013, and an amount of eur 1 365 000 should therefore be mobilised from the egf in order to provide financial assistance for the application submitted by finland.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report to grant support from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to the finnish company 'broadcom communications finland' following the dismissal of 568 of its employees. the application from finland meets all the criteria as it relates to the major structural changes in the world trade system due to globalisation. the finnish authorities argue that the increase in redundancies at broadcom was due to the closure of all its activities in finland. it links this cessation of activity to the major structural changes in world trade trends due to globalisation and recalls that in the first decade of this century the number of employees of finnish subsidiaries established abroad increased on all continents until asia became the clear leader in terms of the number of employees in the electronics and electrical industry in 2004. as a result, the number of employees in europe began to decline. as regards the domestic situation, the finnish authorities highlight a trend affecting the entire finnish electronics industry, which culminated in the announcement of large-scale redundancies by nokia in 2011.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the commission presented its draft budget for 2016 proposing to accelerate and increase eu support to attract investment, improve the knowledge environment, improve learning, and address the challenges of job creation and employment. i agree with the european parliament's position that the proposed budget takes account of the eu's current needs and reflects them appropriately. the commission's action to take due account of and allocate adequate funding to the unrest in the eu's neighbourhood and other regions is to be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the draft budget for 2016 and the budgetary procedure. the european parliament welcomes the fact that the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, presented by the commission, enshrines the priorities set by parliament and proposes to increase eu support for investment, knowledge, job creation and growth-oriented programmes, and in particular for a representative mobility programme such as erasmus+. the draft budget for 2016 is a positive step towards helping member states to address structural problems, in particular the problem of loss of competitiveness. parliament also welcomes the fact that the commission has not only committed more funds to security and citizenship and europe's role in the world, but is also ready to respond to new developments such as the crises in ukraine, syria and the mediterranean region by meeting the needs of the eu and the member states in the areas of security and migration, by showing strong political will in the field of external action and by making a budgetary commitment to the countries of origin and transit. however, parliament reiterates its concern about the funding of the youth employment initiative, as this initiative is the main instrument for combating youth unemployment in the eu, which is the top priority for all eu policymakers. the european parliament therefore calls for the continued implementation of the youth employment initiative, making full use of the flexibility provisions in the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, and intends to ensure that the necessary amounts are provided for in the 2016 budget.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report. the commission's green employment initiative was launched in july 2014 together with the green sme action plan and the circular economy communication. the objective of the initiative is to build on the 2012 commission staff working document unlocking the job creation potential of green growth, which is part of the employment package and which highlights the potential to create up to 20 million jobs in the green economy by 2020, and takes into account the employment guidelines that encourage member states to promote job creation, including in the care and green employment sectors. emphasises that the transition to a sustainable society and economy, including sustainable consumption and production models, can create opportunities for new quality jobs and the transformation of existing jobs into green ones in virtually all sectors and across the value chain, from research to manufacturing, distribution and services, both in new green high-tech sectors such as renewable energy, and in traditional industries such as manufacturing and construction, agriculture and fisheries, and in service sectors such as tourism, food, transport and education; stresses at the same time that investments in renewable energy and energy efficiency not only help to create many jobs, but also contribute to maintaining the competitiveness of the european economy and industry and reducing europe's energy dependency;
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the green jobs initiative announced by the commission. green jobs could be defined as decent work that aims to reduce energy and raw material consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, waste and pollution, and to protect and restore ecosystems. the integration of the workforce is particularly important in the transition to a green economy. studies show that investments in energy and resource efficiency, the development of a supply chain with a clear industrial strategy, and the shifting of the tax burden from labour to other sources have a positive impact on job creation. it is clear that the labour market is already affected by the main global trends, but the eu response has not been comprehensive so far. the european parliament notes that a comprehensive, joint response, from the policy level to basic training, is needed to ensure that we can maintain and expand employment opportunities and job creation potential. time is of the essence, because we are now missing opportunities that are being exploited in other regions of the world, and we are not fully equipping our workforce to deal with the challenges that we are already facing. the commission's communication provides some answers, but it will require the involvement of all the eu institutions if we are to make the necessary transition.
in writing. ‒ i very much welcome and strongly support this report on tax avoidance and tax evasion as challenges in developing countries. it is not only very timely due to the fact that this year is the european year for development, but also since the european union is the world’s largest donor in the development policy it is of our greatest interest to make sure that development policy works well and our investment bears fruits. the figures of an annual illicit capital flight from developing countries of an estimated usd 1 trillion and a loss of an estimated usd 189 billion in tax revenue annually (as noted in the report), are very worrying and explains why many developing countries cannot attain even the minimum tax level necessary to finance their basic functioning, public services, poverty eradication and sustainable development. there is no doubt that europe must not only remain the leader in providing development assistance to the developing countries but at the same time make sure that the aid is absorbed to its fullest potential by addressing tax evasion, tax fraud and combating tax havens.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report. domestic resources are and will remain the main source of financing for developing countries. despite their increasing share of gdp over the past decade, the average tax-to-gdp ratio in developing countries is still too low: developing countries collect comparatively much less income than advanced economies. the tax-to-gdp ratio in low-income countries ranges from 10% to 20%, and in many such countries it is below 15% (this is generally considered to be the threshold below which governments have difficulty financing their basic functions and services). in the oecd countries, it is between 30% and 40%. experts agree that there is ample scope for increasing tax revenues: oxfam's calculations in 52 developing countries show that significantly improved tax collection could raise an additional $269 billion to fund public services. it is therefore essential to ensure that national tax collection is made more predictable, stable and reliable and that all groups of society - individuals and companies - pay according to their means.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on tax evasion and avoidance. illicit financial flows, i.e. all unregistered, private financial flows related to illicitly obtained, transferred or used capital, are generally associated with tax evasion and tax fraud activities, such as the misuse of transaction pricing, in breach of the principle that taxes should be paid when profits are made. illegal flows are just one way in which developing countries lose income tax revenue. illegal tax avoidance, where companies seek to avoid taxation by using complex internal structures and finding loopholes in tax laws, is another important problem. corporate tax rates are falling all over the world. this is particularly the case in developing countries, which are heavily dependent on income tax, which accounts for a large proportion of their national income. the european parliament proposes to increase financial and technical assistance to developing countries and regional tax administration systems in order to combat tax evasion and avoidance. it also considers that reasonable solutions should be adopted to increase transparency and strengthen cooperation in the fight against tax evasion, such as the automatic exchange of information mechanism and country-by-country reporting, taking into account the needs and constraints of developing countries. to assess the impact of tax policies on developing countries at eu and member state level.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report. the inefficient use of resources causes environmental damage and economic risks. the amount of resources used by the global economy in global production and waste absorption is equivalent to 1.5 times the planet's resources. by 2030, this number is expected to reach the resources of two planets. annual consumption of minerals, fossil fuels and biomass is projected to double to 140 million tonnes by 2050. this is due to population growth, access to higher incomes, a greater variety of products than before and a shorter product life cycle. to avoid these changes in our biosphere, we need to use fewer resources. we can and must achieve at least the same standard of living and well-being as we do today, using one tenth of the resources we currently use. only by decoupling growth from resource use can we increase our competitiveness, complete europe's reindustrialisation and improve our living standards. better resource efficiency would benefit our economy and security. more efficient use of resources would reduce resource dependency and save on raw material costs. in addition, new business activities and jobs would be created in europe. the european commission estimates that an annual increase in resource efficiency of 2% would create 2 million new jobs in the eu by 2030.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because the unsustainable use of resources causes environmental damage and economic risks. the amount of resources used by the global economy in global production and waste absorption is equivalent to 1.5 times the planet's resources. by 2030, this number is expected to reach the resources of two planets. annual consumption of minerals, fossil fuels and biomass is projected to double to 140 million tonnes by 2050. this is due to population growth, access to higher incomes, a greater variety of products than before and a shorter product life cycle. if this trend continues, we will be at an ecological and economic dead end. the negative environmental impacts are very diverse and in many cases irreversible: climate change, deforestation, desertification, soil erosion, loss of biodiversity, decline in genetic diversity and the weakening of ecosystem functions. to avoid these changes in our biosphere, we need to use fewer resources. we can and must achieve at least the same standard of living and well-being as we do today, using one tenth of the resources we currently use. only by decoupling growth from resource use can we increase our competitiveness, complete europe's reindustrialisation and improve our living standards. better resource efficiency would benefit our economy and security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on resource efficiency. creating a circular economy, because i think it's very important to look after our planet and nature. humans are already exceeding many of the planet's limits, causing negative ecological effects such as climate change, deforestation, and more. if these trends continue, we are projected to reach an ecological and economic dead end. to avoid such changes, we must use fewer resources. this report presents an action plan based on six key concepts: the circular economy, the phasing-out of resources, the waste hierarchy, greater producer responsibility, industrial symbiosis and new business models. i hope that it will be implemented effectively and that it will contribute to the union's ecological and economic security.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report. the european union should have updated legal instruments that provide for flexible and case-specific decision-making mechanisms to address situations such as the chernobyl and fukushima disasters. in april 2010, the commission presented a proposal for a new version of regulation (euratom) no 3954/87 laying down maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of food and feed following a nuclear accident or any other case of radiological emergency, of commission regulation (euratom) no 944/89 laying down maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of foodstuffs intended for human consumption following a nuclear accident or any other case of radiological emergency and of commission regulation (euratom) no 770/90 laying down maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of feed following a nuclear accident or any other case of radiological emergency. in the event of a nuclear accident or radiological emergency, the commission will adopt an implementing act to apply maximum levels of radioactive contamination to food. the commission is given a great deal of flexibility to adjust the levels set out in the annexes as necessary, if circumstances so require.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because the european union should update its legal framework to deal with disasters such as chernobyl and fukushima. the commission has presented a new proposal for a regulation laying down maximum permitted levels of radiation contamination of food and feed following a nuclear accident or any other case of radiological accident. the new proposal which led to this report includes some new elements which establish a clearer link with the european union's food safety legislation. in the event of a nuclear accident or radiological emergency, the commission will adopt an implementing act to apply maximum levels of radioactive contamination to food. the commission is given a great deal of flexibility to adjust the levels set out in the annexes as necessary, if circumstances so require. as regards the implementing acts adopted in the event of a nuclear accident or any other radiological emergency, the european parliament's report shall provide for the possibility of amending them, if necessary, to take account of changes in pollution. the recitals to the corrective text of the parliament's communication refer to the parameters used to set the maximum levels set out in the annexes to the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation laying down maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of food and feed following a nuclear accident or any other radiological emergency, as i believe that the european union should update its legal instruments establishing flexible and case-by-case decision-making mechanisms to address the problems of situations such as the chernobyl and fukushima accidents. this is not the first time that parliament has been consulted on such proposals. this new communication incorporates new elements that establish clearer links with eu food safety legislation. i think it's very important to ensure the safety of europeans.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. in its resolution of 26 february 2014 on the long-term financing of the european economy, parliament stressed the need to improve access to capital markets through new sources of financing, and noted that commercial banks are likely to remain one of the main sources of financing and that it is essential for member states to develop new sources of financing that complement established mechanisms and close the financing gap, while providing for a regulatory and supervisory framework that is adequately adapted to the needs of the real economy. the capital markets union should be gradual and should have a triple priority: first, to promote the most efficient distribution of savings by deepening and diversifying the sources of finance available to businesses and to offer savings holders and investors greater investment choice, greater transparency and portfolio diversification. second, to contribute to enhanced risk mitigation by building stronger cross-border markets, by strengthening the resilience of financial systems to the adverse impact of major financial crises and by mitigating the impact of particularly severe shocks; third, to ensure that an effective additional source of financing for the real economy is found.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the lack of adequate regulation and control of capital markets was a major cause of the financial crisis. following the financial crisis, the european union institutions adopted a number of legislative measures aimed at preventing future crises and creating an environment of financial stability, which is a prerequisite for sustainable growth. the european parliament notes that, despite the opportunities offered by a well-functioning eu capital market, it is impossible to ignore the existence of major obstacles in other areas such as taxation, in particular the practice of promoting debt-to-equity ratios, insolvency and accounting rules. the future of europe depends on its capacity to innovate. the creation of an innovation-friendly regulatory framework is a prerequisite for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, as is easy, appropriate and diversified access to finance for businesses. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to examine in depth the current situation of capital markets in each member state, to provide an assessment in a detailed economic study of where and to what extent barriers to investment through capital markets exist at eu level, and to indicate what measures, including non-legislative procedures and market-based strategies, could be taken to remove or reduce these barriers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the creation of a capital markets union because i believe that access to capital markets needs to be improved through new sources of finance. parliament stressed that commercial banks were likely to remain one of the main sources of financing and that it was essential for member states to develop new sources of financing to complement the existing mechanisms and to close the financing gap. this report is one of a series of actions to help diversify funding, develop european capital markets and improve access to finance. all of this is crucial for economic growth, job creation and entrepreneurship in the union.
in writing. ‒ the i voted for this resolution. threats to the internal security of the union have become more complex, hybrid, asymmetrical, unconventional, transnational, fast-moving and difficult to predict and exceed the capabilities of any single member state, and therefore require a coherent, comprehensive, multilateral and coordinated eu response, taking full account of respect for fundamental rights, more than ever. the development of the eu's security policy is a matter of common responsibility, requiring concerted and unified efforts by all member states, eu institutions and agencies, civil society and law enforcement authorities to pursue common objectives and based on the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights. whereas, in order to achieve the best results, the concrete implementation of these common objectives and priorities should be linked to a clear allocation of tasks at eu and national level, based on the principle of subsidiarity and subject to strict and effective parliamentary and judicial oversight. i support the european security strategy 2015-2020 proposed by the commission and the priorities set out therein.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because we need freedom, security and justice, respect for fundamental rights, and appropriate democratic oversight and accountability to ensure that these rights are implemented, both at the level of the european union and the member states. the european parliament welcomes the european security strategy 2015-2020 proposed by the commission and the priorities it sets, but this agenda does not sufficiently address the justice aspect. the european agenda on security is of particular importance as the european union is currently facing threats such as terrorism, radicalisation, cross-border organised crime and cybercrime, which require coordinated action at national, eu and global levels to address. the action plan for this agenda therefore requires a proper balance between prevention policies and repressive measures to preserve freedom, security and justice. security measures should always be applied in accordance with the rule of law and with respect for fundamental rights, such as the right to privacy and data protection, freedom of expression and association and the right to due process. the commission should therefore, in implementing the european agenda on security, take due account of the recent ruling of the court of justice on the data retention directive, which requires that all measures comply with the principles of proportionality, necessity and legality and include appropriate accountability and redress safeguards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european agenda on security. i believe that the threats to the internal security of the union have become more complex, hybrid, asymmetrical, unconventional, transnational, fast-moving and difficult to predict and beyond the capabilities of any single member state, and that a coherent, comprehensive, multilateral and coordinated eu response, taking full account of respect for fundamental rights, is therefore more necessary than ever. the development of eu security policy is a matter of common responsibility and therefore requires common objectives and priorities. their implementation should be linked to a clear division of tasks between the eu and national levels, based on the principle of subsidiarity and with strict and effective parliamentary and judicial oversight. only by working together and in unity can we ensure the future security of the union, and that is what this report seeks to do.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the current crisis in yemen is one consequence of the failure of successive governments to meet the legitimate expectations of the yemeni people regarding democracy, economic and social development, stability and security. whereas the current conflict in yemen has spread to 20 of the 22 territorial units of the country; whereas, according to the latest consolidated figures of the world health organisation (who), at least 1 439 people were killed and 5 951 injured, many of them civilians, between 19 march and 5 may 2015; whereas more than 3 000 people have been killed and more than 10 000 injured since the beginning of the conflicts; the eu reaffirmed its commitment to continue supporting yemen and the yemeni people. the european parliament strongly supports the unity, sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of yemen and stands by the people of yemen and expresses its full support for the efforts of the un and the un secretary-general's special envoy for yemen, ismail ould cheikho ahmed, to mediate peace negotiations between the parties. the resolution calls on all parties to the conflict in yemen to seek a political, inclusive and negotiated solution to the conflict through dialogue, compromise and power-sharing, and the formation of a national unity government to restore peace, prevent economic and financial collapse and address the humanitarian crisis.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution on the current crisis in yemen. this crisis is the result of the failure of successive governments to meet the legitimate expectations of the yemeni people for democracy, economic and social development, stability and security. this failure has led to violent conflicts at the source, the failure to form a proper government and to share power fairly, and the systematic ignoring of the country's tribal divisions, insecurity and economic paralysis. these recent developments pose a serious threat to the stability of the region, in particular the somali peninsula, the red sea and the wider middle east. parliament expressed its deep concern at the rapidly deteriorating political, security and humanitarian situation in yemen, expressed its condolences to the families of the victims and called on all parties to the conflict to put an end to the violence without delay. the european union supports the unity, sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of yemen and supports the people of yemen. parliament also condemned the destabilising and violent unilateral actions by the criminal group and military units loyal to the former president. it also condemns the airstrikes by the saudi-led coalition and the naval blockade of yemen, which have killed thousands of people.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in yemen because i am concerned about the rapidly deteriorating political, security and humanitarian situation in yemen. i am not in favour of war and i support the rapporteur's call for all warring parties to immediately cease violence and to express sympathy to the families of the victims. i believe that the european union must fulfil its commitment to continue to support yemen and the yemeni people, the unity, sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of yemen. it is important to ensure peace in the world and to use the influence of the european union in doing so.
in writing. ‒ we are witnessing a dire security situation in the mena region characterized by ongoing insecurity, rising extremism (with these countries, isil) and new waves of internal displacement. in my opinion, this resolution rightly states that political and economic stability of the region is of a crucial strategic importance to eu security. a holistic, ambitious and cooperative eu approach towards mena countries is needed. we should remind ourselves that those countries share a common security interest with the eu in such fields as halting the spread of extremism, addressing migration and helping people who have been displaced. with democratic hopefulness in decline, economic cooperation needs to be complemented by a large-scale political and strategic partnership. the eu needs to promote conflict resolution along with gradual public and private sector reforms and civil capacity-building projects. while the emergency situation on an unprecedented scale is likely to continue for years to come, we need to sustain further mobilisation of our resources and scale up the eu humanitarian response while considering the specific political priorities of each mena country.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report. parliament called on the eu and its member states to address the root causes of the rapidly deteriorating situation in the middle east and north africa region through a comprehensive and ambitious approach, supported the international campaign against the isil (da'esh) group and welcomed the commitment of the coalition partners to cooperate in line with the common strategy. welcomes in particular the actions of the eu member states participating in the international coalition against isil in contributing to the military intervention or providing logistical, financial and humanitarian assistance, but calls for greater concentration of action in all areas and stresses the need for more coordinated action. these actions could be coordinated under eu supervision, if necessary as part of the common security and defence policy (csdp) and to this end calls for the eu to build up sufficient operational capacity and to develop a genuine common european defence. it is necessary to find a tailor-made solution to address the issue of combating isil (da'esh), al-nusra front and other terrorist groups, based on policy and regional differences. the eu must take on the role of a key facilitator in the regional dialogue, involving all stakeholders in the region, including the arab league, saudi arabia, egypt, turkey and iran.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report as it is important and necessary to support capacity building projects and activities in the middle east and north africa, to combat radicalisation and violent extremism, to promote international cooperation, to address root causes and ongoing crises and to strengthen partnerships with key actors. stability and security in the middle east and north africa region are essential objectives for ensuring the security of the european union. the european parliament is concerned about the humanitarian situation in syria, which has been deteriorating for four years. the provision of humanitarian aid is being reduced by deliberate obstructions to its delivery, and these obstructions must be addressed without delay. the number of people living in areas that are difficult or inaccessible to aid agencies has almost doubled in the past two years. the european parliament considers that the lack of democracy is one of the main causes of political instability in the region and that respect for human rights and basic democratic principles is the strongest long-term protection against permanent instability in the countries of the middle east and north africa region. parliament therefore calls on the eu and its member states to look beyond the middle east and north africa region as a short-term security threat and to support actively and consistently the democratic aspirations of the societies in the region.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the security challenges in the middle east and north africa region and the prospects for political stability. i believe that the conflicts in syria, iraq, yemen and libya and the growing tensions throughout the middle east and north africa are the main factors destabilising the region, and that a strategy for conflict resolution and a legitimate and credible basis for inclusive dialogue with the various parties involved are therefore needed. this report seeks to restore peace by leveraging the european union's influence in the region. the communication aims to address threats and ensure security, strengthen the common strategy for democracy and human rights and strengthen cooperation for economic development. i believe that these steps can help the union to restore stability and peace in the region.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report. the european neighbourhood policy (enp) is designed to deepen relations, strengthen cooperation and strengthen the eu's partnership with its neighbours, with a view to developing a common area of stability, security and prosperity, as underlined in article 8 of the eu treaty. as a result of the growing number of old and new security challenges, the neighbourhood is currently changing and is less stable and significantly less secure, and is also experiencing a greater economic crisis than at the beginning of the implementation of the enp. the eu's revised policy must be based on a general accountability and a shared commitment to respecting eu values and principles, including democracy, the rule of law, human rights and effective, accountable and transparent public authorities, and this is in line with the interests of the public in the neighbouring countries as well as the eu's own interests in ensuring stability, security and prosperity. despite the practical difficulties and challenges, the eu must continue to strongly support transition processes in all and any country, democratisation, respect for human rights and the rule of law. events in the region since 2004, and in particular over the last few years, have shown that the ecb is unable to respond adequately and quickly to rapidly changing and complex circumstances. for these reasons, the revision of the esp must be carried out with a view to strengthening it and in accordance with the principle of long-term progress towards a comprehensive and effective overall eu common foreign and security policy.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because of the need to reform the european neighbourhood policy (enp) in order to build strong, strategic and long-term partnerships with the enp countries, based on preserving and aligning with the eu's values and principles and promoting mutual interests. the commission should, on the basis of common interests, focus on sectors identified with its partners as having the potential for progress and global added value, and progressively expand cooperation based on progress and ambition, in particular to contribute to economic growth and human social development, with particular attention to the younger generations. economic reforms must be accompanied by political reforms and good governance can only be achieved through an open, accountable and transparent decision-making process by democratic institutions. it is also important to build a prosperous and active civil society through transformation and democratisation processes involving the social partners and the business community. civil society, local smes and other non-state actors should continue to be supported as they are the driving force behind the reform process. in addition, dialogue and partnership between different civil society actors and sectors in the eu and neighbouring countries in the context of the enp should be further developed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the review of the european neighbourhood policy because i believe it is important and necessary to ensure that the review of the enp is carried out in a timely manner. the revised enp should ensure a rapid, flexible and appropriate response to the situation and a strong strategic vision for the development of relations with neighbouring countries, both bilaterally and multilaterally, while maintaining the commitment to promote the core values on which the enp is based. this report calls on the commission to focus on areas of common interest identified with its partners where progress and global added value can be achieved, and to progressively expand cooperation based on progress and ambition, in particular to contribute to economic growth and human social development, with particular attention to the younger generations. the report also stresses that economic reforms must be accompanied by political reforms and that good governance can only be achieved through an open, accountable and transparent decision-making process by democratic institutions.
in writing. ‒ a review of the european neighbourhood policy is necessary both in view of the changing situation in the south and, in the light of russian aggression, in the eu's eastern neighbourhood. the esp is one of the most important elements of the eu's external policy. it must therefore be sufficiently flexible, diversified and inclusive to meet the ambitions of the partners for reform and convergence with the eu, both in terms of the eu's objectives and the new tasks and challenges that have emerged. we must do everything we can to help the eastern partnership countries reduce their vulnerability and dependence on russia, which is using its leverage and creating artificial barriers to prevent these countries from making their own decisions about deep cooperation with the eu, which is economically, values-based and politically attractive to them.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report. the european parliament supports the commission's commitment to further develop the eu digital agenda, including the modernisation of copyright, and recognises the need to review directive 2001/29/ec in order to ensure adequate remuneration for authors, performers and other rightholders, adequate protection of those rights and fair interaction between all actors in the european cultural economy (smes, consumers, users, creators and rightholders) in the digital age, which involves a constantly evolving technological environment in which user behaviour changes, opportunities arise and challenges arise. reforming the eu copyright system is necessary to ensure the necessary legal clarity, stability and certainty, as well as the flexibility, to stimulate investment and growth in the creative and cultural sectors, while removing legal uncertainties and inconsistencies that are hampering the functioning of the digital single market.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to consider measures to contribute to the further development of cultural exchanges and to increase legal certainty in this sector, i.e. the need to revise this directive on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society. it should be noted that the principle of fair remuneration of rightholders should continue to be ensured in the context of the revision of that directive. the european parliament welcomes the new commission's commitment to further develop the eu's digital agenda, including copyright issues, in the context of its mandate. welcomes the fact that the commission's 2015 work programme promises to develop a digital single market package, including a proposal for a legislative act to modernise copyright rules to meet the needs of the digital age; parliament is concerned about the increase in illegal services and piracy online and the increase in infringements of intellectual property rights in general, which pose a serious threat to the economies of the member states and the eu's creative sector. moreover, any reform of copyright legislation should be based on a high level of protection, given the importance of rights to intellectual creation, and in order to ensure a stable, clear and flexible legal framework that encourages investment and growth in the creative and cultural sectors.
in writing. - i voted for this report. in recent years, the eu's neighbours have faced a number of political, security and economic challenges that have put considerable pressure on democratization efforts and the pursuit of human rights and fundamental freedoms. i support the european parliament's call for the edf to continue to be active in countries where there are significant barriers to providing external support to civil society or where public funding is discriminatory and only available to certain organisations or civil societies. we also support the edf's efforts to find innovative ways to support actors of change in a particularly complex political environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament, in the light of the current difficult international environment, welcomes the experience gained to date with the activities of the european endowment for democracy (edf) and considers that the main objective of the edf is being achieved. the edf's main tasks are to promote and strengthen democratisation and strong and sustainable democracy in countries undergoing political change, to fight corruption in those countries, to promote social and political participation by protecting activists and journalists who are doing their utmost on the ground to secure and accelerate the democratic process, and thus to increase access to justice. the european foundation for democracy is constantly working to ensure freedom of expression, association and the media, to build and strengthen the rule of law, to fight corruption, to ensure social and political pluralism - a commitment to help develop democratic regimes in both the eu's eastern and southern neighbours. the european parliament thus fully and consistently supports the european union's multifaceted efforts to support civil society organisations, social movements and activists worldwide.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the new eu approach to human rights and democracy 'evaluation of the european endowment for democracy (edf) since its creation'. i supported this report because i believe that the promotion and support of democracy, the rule of law and respect for the universality and non-violence of human rights and fundamental freedoms are among the eu's most important foreign policy objectives. the european union must continue to support the edf in its efforts to achieve these objectives. in this report, parliament decided to increase edf funding, human resources capacity and other support to ensure the promotion of democracy and human rights.
in writing. ‒ the creation of the edf is an example of the eu's ability to create new solutions to the challenges it faces. the edf has not set itself simple tasks, particularly in the areas of strengthening civil society and transparency in the information field. i believe that the foundation can make a significant contribution to the promotion of professional journalism in the eastern partnership countries which are most affected by the burden of deliberately distorted information. it should be noted that the fund has already done a considerable amount of work. i therefore support the call for eu countries that have not yet done so to contribute to the fund.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the political impasse in burundi and the deteriorating security and economic situation have serious consequences for the population and pose a threat to the entire region, as burundi is currently experiencing its worst crisis since the end of the 12-year ethnically motivated civil war, which had claimed some 300 000 lives by 2005. the eu provides a very large part of burundi's annual budget, of which about half is international aid, and the eu recently allocated €432 million to burundi, one of the world's poorest nations, from the european development fund for 2014-2020, including to help improve governance and build civil society. the european parliament supports the call of the eu foreign affairs council of 22 june 2015 to the vice-presidents of the commission and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to draw up a list of targeted restrictive measures and visa and travel bans against persons responsible for acts of violence, repression and serious human rights violations and against persons actively obstructing a political solution in accordance with the framework proposed by the hr and the council, and also asks the vice-president and the high representative of the commission to take the necessary measures to freeze the assets of all such persons in the eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the situation in burundi, which is a country where civil rights are violated and where violence is used against human rights defenders. in recent months, burundi has seen an increase in violence as police use excessive force against peaceful protesters, resulting in deaths. the european parliament is therefore deeply concerned about the deteriorating political and humanitarian situation in burundi and the region as a whole. we therefore call for an immediate cessation of violence and the continuing intimidation of political opponents, as well as for the immediate disarmament of all armed youth groups affiliated to political parties. we sympathize with the victims of the violence and call for immediate humanitarian assistance to be provided to those who have been forced to leave their homes. parliament also expressed grave concern at the decision of the burundian government to continue with the elections despite the extremely difficult political and security situation, as the electoral process was heavily hampered by restrictions on the independent media, excessive use of force against demonstrators, an atmosphere of intimidation by opposition parties and civil society and a lack of confidence in the electoral authorities. the european parliament stresses that only dialogue and consensus between the burundian government, the opposition and civil society, in accordance with the arusha agreement and the burundian constitution, can lead to a sustainable political solution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in burundi. the deteriorating political and humanitarian situation in burundi and the region as a whole is a cause of concern and a threat to the burundian people and to neighbouring countries, and i believe that we must take immediate action to stabilise the situation. the union must use its influence and voice in such situations to try to help solve the country's internal problems.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the 11 july 2015 marks the anniversary of the genocide and ethnic cleansing in and around srebrenica during the 20th bosnian war, and should serve as a further reminder of the danger of extreme forms of nationalism and intolerance in society, which are becoming more acute during the war. following the surrender of srebrenica, bosnian serb forces and paramilitary units, including irregular police forces, led by general mladic, killed over 8 000 muslim men and boys of faith who had sought refuge in the unprofor safe zone over several days of carnage. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the european union's action to include the fight against terrorism and the fight against organised crime. political representatives in bosnia and herzegovina must acknowledge the past in order to work together successfully to ensure a better future for all citizens. it is important to recognise the role of neighbouring countries, religious authorities, civil society, the arts, culture, media and education systems in this complex process.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution as 11 july 2015 marks the 20th anniversary of the genocide and ethnic cleansing in and around srebrenica during the bosnian war, which should serve as a further reminder of the danger of extreme forms of nationalism and intolerance in society, which are exacerbated during the war. the european parliament, in its resolution, commemorates and honours all the victims of the genocide and atrocities committed in srebrenica during the war in the former yugoslavia and expresses its sympathy and solidarity with the families of the victims. parliament condemns in the strongest terms the genocide in srebrenica. such heinous crimes cannot happen again and we must do everything we can to prevent such acts from happening in the future. the european parliament believes that political representatives in bosnia and herzegovina must acknowledge the past in order to work together successfully to ensure a better future for all citizens. in addition, the important role of neighbouring countries, religious authorities, civil society, arts, culture, media and education systems in this complex process must be recognised. the european parliament urges the development of educational and cultural programmes to promote awareness of the causes of such atrocities and to raise awareness of the need to promote peace and to promote human rights and tolerance between religious groups.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the commemoration of the srebrenica massacre. i commemorate and honour with parliament all the victims of the genocide and atrocities committed in srebrenica during the war in the former yugoslavia, and express my sympathy and solidarity with the families of the victims, many of whom are living without final confirmation of the fate of their loved ones. i also condemn in the strongest terms the genocide in srebrenica and declare that such horrific crimes must not be allowed to happen again. in this report, parliament affirms that it will do everything in its power to ensure that such acts do not occur in the future; it does not support any denial, overrealisation or misinterpretation of the genocide. i think it's very important for the people of srebrenica.
mr president, commissioner malmström, colleagues, nabeel rajab’s case is an emblematic example of the overall situation of human rights defenders in bahrain. i am seriously concerned that people are being arbitrarily detained, tortured and stripped of their citizenship, merely for their work related to defending human rights in the country. the public sphere – both online and offline – cannot be subject to prior authorisation. it is a forum where citizens should be entitled to enjoy the rights of association, assembly and freedom of speech. thus i hope that this resolution, following on from the previous pledges of such institutions as the un, will give a strong push to the bahraini authorities to commit themselves to undertaking necessary reforms. i believe that the bahraini authorities, instead of suppressing civil society and political opposition, should engage in a genuine partnership so that, through their combined efforts, they will be able to tackle political crises without sliding into violent confrontations and political unrest.
i welcome the initiative to encourage the european commission to take advantage of the simplification process of the common agricultural policy. the important thing is that this simplification is not for the benefit of the sofa farmers, but for the benefit of those who live from agriculture. this is the kind of life that shows how important greening is, because it's about responsible farming - the kind of farming that people do in the countryside, working the land for generations. another important aspect it is important to take into account that the rules have changed considerably in the new period, and i therefore believe it is necessary for the commission to encourage the agencies not only to use fines if any error is found, but, on the contrary, to start with much milder measures: warning, training and so on.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let us consider the problems that cloning livestock will solve in the european union's agriculture. the lack of food? no, we have a bigger problem: food waste. improving animal welfare? and no, we know that the consequences of animal cloning are even greater suffering for animals than has been the case before. the quality of the food? i can't believe this. it is claimed that cloned animals have immune problems and are resistant to many diseases, and food products made from them may be contaminated with more than normal vectors of disease. so i don't see the need for cloning farm animals. it is very good that we are discussing this issue, which has not yet been regulated at european union level, and so far the only acceptable regulation is the prohibition of activities proposed by the rapporteurs and the envi and the agricultural committees.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to ratify the convention on forced labour. the convention calls on governments to take action to better protect workers, especially migrant workers, from abuse and fraud in recruitment. i agree that it is important to have a european-wide debate on the risk factors identified in the latest ilo report on forced labour forcing people into forced labour, i.e. reduced income and poverty or dependency on vulnerable groups (women, migrant children). it is also important that the european anti-poverty strategy goes beyond the coordination of national actions and should set binding poverty reduction targets.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it expresses parliament's support for the council decision on the eu's accession to the protocol of 2014 on forced or compulsory labour to the 1930 international labour organisation convention. this protocol updates the 1930 convention by creating new instruments to combat forced labour and by making it legally binding. in the 21st century, 21 million people are in forced labor. they are victims of exploitation, generating about 150 billion dollars in revenue every year for those who organize and manage such work. 880 000 people in the european union (1.6 million people across the continent) are engaged in these new forms of forced labour. men and women offered work abroad are trapped by alleged employers, migrants are trapped by human traffickers, and children are vulnerable to loss of roots. the protocol therefore states that, as the context and forms of forced labour change, it is necessary to establish preventive and protective measures and mechanisms for redress and compensation (such as compensation and compensation for material and physical damage suffered). it also calls for increased resources and cooperation between states to combat modern forms of slavery, recognising their increasingly international character. the protocol strengthens international law by imposing obligations to prevent forced labour and to provide protection and access to victims of forced labour to defend their rights, such as compensation.
in writing. ‒ i support the position of the rapporteur. human rights must be followed and forced labour directly exploits the most vulnerable people: women, children and migrants. physical and psychological violence cannot be tolerated, therefore i strongly believe that by securing and updating the ilo’s protocol of 2014 on the forced labour convention, 1930 we will be able to better protect workers and their rights. also, we must follow the european anti-poverty strategy, thus only national measures are not enough. moreover, prevention of forced labour could only be effective if we also approached third-world countries, which breach the ilo convention of 1930 on forced labour and its 2014 protocol. due to these reasons, i voted for this council proposal.
in writing. i agree with the recommendation. it is essential that deterrent, imperative and innovative measures to combat forced labour are in place in each member state. an appropriate mechanism for the prevention and criminalisation of forced labour must be established. we cannot allow people to continue to be victims of forced and compulsory labour. states must do more to protect workers from abuse and fraud. in order to prevent forced labour and to provide its victims with protection and the opportunity to defend their rights, it is essential to strengthen in practice the means of enforcing labour law. in addition, the impact of european social policy on labour law should be considered when ratifying this convention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this decision by which the european parliament waived the immunity of mr janusz korwin-mikke. the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded the petrakov city guard's request for the prosecution of the member of the european parliament janusz korwin-mikke for committing an administrative offence under article 92a of the code of administrative offences and article 20 (1) of the road traffic rules, as the offence relates to speeding in a residential area.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the council's position on the correct application of customs and agricultural legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted on the report of the european parliament amending council regulation (ec) no 515/97 of 1997. the new regulation provides for improved cooperation between the administrative authorities and between them and the commission to ensure the correct application of customs and agricultural legislation throughout the european union.
in writing. ‒ during the second reading regarding the correct application of the law on customs and agricultural matters, i voted against the proposal to reject the council position. if we want to achieve the goal of the single market, then customs union is a necessary attribute. moreover, national customs authorities should collaborate in order to ensure legal and protected flows of goods in and out of europe.
in writing. in order to ensure the correct application of customs and agricultural legislation, particular attention should be paid to mutual assistance and cooperation between the administrative authorities of the member states and the commission. it is also essential to address the shortcomings in the existing systems for detecting fraud in customs activities and the delays in olaf investigations. the procedures for administrative and criminal offences need to be further strengthened at eu level. attention should be drawn to the need to simplify data protection supervision and to clarify the possibility of limiting the visibility of data and the conditions for the admissibility of evidence collected through mutual assistance channels. it should be noted that the power to adopt implementing acts is conferred on the commission, but that member states should have the same access to the register of container status reports as the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to strengthen the eu ban on the trade in seal products. since 2009, the eu has banned trade in seal products such as meat, skin, tails or oil. this prohibition was challenged by the world trade organisation, which in june 2014 justified the eu prohibition but imposed an obligation to clarify the exemption to this prohibition. the new rules will reduce the number of exemptions that allow the eu to trade seal products. the rules agreed with the eu council provide that indigenous communities will continue to be able to trade in these products, as seal hunting is an integral part of their culture and identity. however, the exemption which allowed the marketing of seal products caught under a regulated catch regime will be abolished.
in writing. ‒ i voted on the parliament's report amending the 2009 regulation of the european parliament and of the council on trade in seal products. the purpose of this legislation is to implement the world trade organisation recommendations and resolutions related to the 2009 basic regulation on trade in seal products, in order to ensure that seal products harvested for commercial purposes are no longer placed on the eu market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulation which endeavours to ensure that products of commercial seal hunts are not found on the eu market. due to the deadline of 18 october 2015 given by the wto, the issue of commercial hunts must be solved by implementing the seal regulation. i believe that the addition of the new criteria, which include the exception of seal hunting for integral cultural reasons, as well as for hunting for food, is a reasonable move which ensures the fostering of community traditions and cultural heritage. after numerous debates, we must reach a solution that will comply with the international obligations set by the wto. thus, i believe the seal regulation is a necessary ban with considerable exceptions.
in writing. it is welcome that an agreement has been reached and that the regulation on trade in seal products will be aligned with the rules of the world trade organisation. in order to prevent possible discrimination, it is appropriate to remove the exemption provided for in the regulation for products derived from seals caught in small quantities and without the aim of profit, solely for the purpose of sustainable management of marine resources. it should be noted that such hunting cannot be separated from commercial hunting and that the prohibition of commercial hunting is therefore considered discriminatory. it is also essential to assess the impact of this legislation on the essential and social interests of inuit and other indigenous communities and to take into account the right of self-determination of those communities. i support the proposal that citizens be duly informed that the placing on the eu market of seal products harvested by inuit and other indigenous communities is legal.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to ban animal cloning and the marketing of animal products. the new rules would ban the cloning of farmed animals, the trade in their products and the import of these products into the eu. the high mortality rate of cloning technology raises animal welfare and ethical concerns, and i therefore support the proposal to tighten the conditions of the ban and extend it to the descendants of cloned animals. given that some third countries allow the cloning of animals for farming purposes, the new rules would prohibit the import and trade of these animals, their genetic material, their progeny and the food and feed produced from them. in its 2008 opinion on animal cloning, the european food safety authority noted that many cloned animals have had adverse effects on their health and welfare, which have often been serious and have had fatal consequences.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is a european parliament statement against the cloning of farmed and bred bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals. the european commission has presented two legislative proposals on the cloning of animals for food. the proposals suspend the use of cloning technology in eu farm animals, the placing on the market of live animal clones and cloned embryos, and the marketing of food products (such as meat or milk) produced from animal clones. scientific research has provided conclusive evidence that animal cloning poses a risk to animal welfare and therefore cloning for agricultural purposes is currently prohibited in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal for a directive to ban the cloning of animals which are kept and reproduced for farming purposes. i believe that the cloning ban might be the reason for the stagnation in the progress of science and it might also threaten the improvement in animal welfare. moreover, according to the report of the european food safety authority, there is absolutely no evidence to justify food safety concerns – food from cloned animals is exactly the same as food from conventionally bred animals. therefore, the question is whether the extensive ban would or would not harm the businesses. hence, the cloning ban might even force many small businesses into providing extensive documentation and could threaten the import of meat and dairy products from countries that allow cloning for agricultural purposes in general. these are the main arguments which gave me the grounds to vote against this proposal.
in writing. the cloning of animals kept and bred for farming purposes must be prohibited, as must any cloning technology. such prohibition shall be of a permanent nature, based on human health, ethical and animal welfare requirements. it should be noted that there is insufficient data on the consequences of animal cloning. animal cloning can have negative effects on animal welfare, reduce the genetic diversity of animal populations and increase the risk of disease, and at the same time have negative consequences for human welfare and health. in view of this, i consider it appropriate to prohibit the import of animals, products of genetic material or animal food for human consumption or animal feed from countries where trade in animal clones or their products is permitted. the impact of animal cloning on food and consumer health can be extremely negative. it may also have a negative impact on livestock production and european agriculture.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to support and strengthen the protection of fundamental human rights. it proposes to develop a comprehensive eu internal fundamental rights strategy covering all eu bodies active in the field of fundamental rights. i agree that it is important to ensure that this strategy is consistent with the strategic agenda for external relations in the field of human rights and democracy. it is important to carefully monitor member states' respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law not only before, but also after accession. i support the proposal to create a mechanism that would provide sufficient deterrence to prevent and eliminate violations of fundamental rights in the member states. priority areas: freedom of expression, the need to strike the right balance between respect for fundamental rights and the need to ensure collective security, the impact of austerity policies and corruption on fundamental rights, and the situation in prisons.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report of the european parliament because it deals with the situation of fundamental rights in the european union. this communication calls on member states to ensure that all eu legislation, including economic and financial adjustment programmes, is implemented in accordance with the provisions of the charter of fundamental rights and the european social charter (article 151 tfeu). this communication is the first attempt to address the existing shortcomings in the prevention and remedying of breaches of fundamental rights and the rule of law in the member states and draws attention to the commission's intention to keep the european parliament and the council regularly informed of progress made at each stage.
in writing. ‒ i fully agree with the rapporteur, therefore i voted for this report which addresses the importance of the fundamental rights in the eu. primarily, all the eu citizens should have the same rights despite their age, sex, sexual orientation, race or religion. it is necessary to ensure consistency with the strategic framework on human rights and democracy in the context of foreign relations and to verify thoroughly that there is respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law not only in those countries applying for membership of the eu but also in states that are already members. the eu has the duty to secure its citizens with the most important rights, hence, in order to avoid its violations, the mechanism is absolutely necessary.
in writing. human rights must be protected and guaranteed. the protection of human rights and freedoms is a fundamental value of a harmonious civil society. fundamental rights can best be guaranteed only in a democratic and free society. i do not support the motion for a resolution. no special rights or privileges may be granted to any group of people in relation to other people. respect for the institution of marriage and the family, freedom, must be preserved. first, the family is based on the marriage of a man and a woman. it is the natural and fundamental unit of society and has the right to be protected by society and the state. the current challenges facing the family must be overcome. we cannot allow the concept of family to be distorted or belittled. in the eyes of international law, the family is an unquestionable universal value which civilized democratic states are obliged to protect and defend. we cannot go back to the basic principles.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to discuss the process of the interviews for the post of european commissioner. the hearing process is not provided for in the eu treaties, but is a practice that has developed over the last 20 years at the initiative of the ep. the opinions of the separate committees have no legal effect on the individual members of the commission. nevertheless, this, the last and the last time the negative opinion of the committees led to changes in the composition of the commission or to the transfer of portfolios. the media interest in the questioning was high. they were not only targeted through traditional media channels, but also online and on social media.
in writing. ‒ i voted on the report of the parliament on the procedure for hearing commissioners. public hearings of commissioners-designate are an important opportunity for parliament and eu citizens to assess each candidate's priorities and professional suitability for the role. parliament considers that it would be useful to set a deadline by which all member states should submit their candidates in order to give the president-elect of the commission sufficient time to allocate portfolios. procedures to monitor the follow-up of commissioners-designate to their answers given at the hearing can help to improve control and increase the overall responsibility of the commission, and the european parliament therefore calls for a periodic review of the follow-up of the commissioner-designate to the priorities set when he takes up his duties.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the rapporteur and i have voted for the resolution on procedures and practices regarding commissioner hearings, lessons to be taken from the 2014 process. first of all, i believe that the cut of the number of questions from 42 to 25 is a reasonable proposal. furthermore, so far the vote by individual committees on individual commissioners has no legal consequence. therefore, the evaluation of the commissioner within committees should be more important. these and other possible changes are the significant attempts to make the commission more accountable.
in writing. i agree with the report. in particular, the consultation process helps to improve control and to increase the overall responsibility of the commission. it is therefore necessary to ensure that they are conducted in a smooth and constructive manner. in particular, it is an important opportunity for parliament and eu citizens to assess each candidate's priorities and professional suitability for the job. moreover, hearings of commissioners increase transparency and strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the commission as a whole. in order to ensure a more flexible and dynamic process, it would be useful to set a deadline by which all member states should submit their candidates in order to allow the president-elect of the commission sufficient time to allocate portfolios. it is also essential that the member state should present at least two candidates for consideration by the president-elect of the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted on the report on the impact of hacking and surveillance systems using ict on human rights in third countries. parliament called on the commission to take action to prevent companies involved in such activities from participating in eu public procurement procedures, from providing research and development funding or other financial support, as they could be misused as a means of violating human rights. the council is invited, together with the commission, to develop an advanced and effective policy to regulate the export of dual-use technologies, thereby addressing the issue of potentially harmful exports of ict products and services at international level.
in writing. ‒ on the resolution on human rights and technology in third countries, my vote was positive. i strongly believe that the concrete ideas presented in the proposal are the crucial in this digital age and the upcoming future. i strongly support the notion on the increase of attention to the importance of developing icts in conflict areas to promote peace-building activities. nevertheless, the eu should train and equip journalists, human rights defenders and with the knowledge and the tools to protect themselves and their communications. also, it is essential that the eu would counter the criminalisation of the use of encryption, anti-censorship and privacy tools. despite the digital innovations and its necessity, we must be aware of the issues that are closely related to the human rights violations not only within the eu but also in the third countries.
in writing. i support the motion for a resolution. in particular, the impact of intrusion and surveillance systems on human rights in third countries can have a highly negative impact. it is therefore essential to ensure that the relevant instruments are used properly and lawfully. i think the eu should promote the use of free and open source software. this would help to ensure the credibility of the eu's human rights policy and provide greater security. it is also essential to ensure the effective enforcement and monitoring of eu regulations and sanctions related to ict.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at establishing a results-based control system for the common agricultural policy. according to the court, the arrangements for the use of cap funds for the 2014-2020 period remain complex. i support the calls in the proposal for a less bureaucratic cap to reduce the level of errors and to introduce measures that allow for the separation of errors from fraud. it is necessary to distinguish between involuntary omissions and fraudulent acts, since taxpayers are not normally financially harmed by omissions. clearer advice to national authorities and farmers is necessary to reduce the level of errors.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report by parliament on the implementation of the protection of the european union's financial interests and the establishment of a control system for the common agricultural policy (cap). following the two reforms of the common agricultural policy (cap), the rules have become more varied and complex, and a more efficient and effective reform is needed to achieve the cap's objectives through simplification and less red tape. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of proportionality to the aid granted to the beneficiaries of the measures. parliament called for a less bureaucratic cap to reduce the level of errors and to introduce measures to distinguish between errors and fraud, while ensuring that farmers could continue to supply the vital food production that underpins the policy. the commission should encourage the exchange of best practice between member states in order to ensure that controls are as smooth as possible and that farmers are not inconvenienced.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the resolution on the common agricultural policy. i strongly believe that the simplification of the common agricultural policy is a way to reduce the number of controls. not only it would be is easier to implement rules, but also for the farmers it would be simpler to follow them. not to mention, the monitoring would be improved hence making the whole common eu agricultural policy more accountable to the taxpayers. furthermore, clearer guidance should be given to both national authorities and farmers in order to reduce the error rate and in that way the cap would be more effective.
in writing. i agree with the report. in particular, the control system of the cap based on results must ensure that farmers' interests are properly safeguarded. the achievement of the cap objectives through the latest cap reform requires simplification and less red tape. i believe that the commission should take advantage of the cap simplification process as soon as possible and remove the current cumbersome and complex rules. a less bureaucratic cap will help to reduce the level of errors and ensure more efficient implementation. it is therefore necessary to provide for measures to distinguish between errors and fraud. the quality and consistency of inspections should be improved, not increased. attention should be paid to the need for rapid implementation of the measures envisaged. they must benefit farmers, paying agencies, eu institutions and taxpayers.
in writing. ‒ the objective: to promote family businesses in europe. family businesses can play a crucial role in overcoming the financial and economic crisis and in reviving the economy. more than 60% of all enterprises in the eu are family businesses, accounting for between 40% and 50% of jobs in the private sector. the definition of family businesses is not legally binding and is not used at all in the member states. as a result, family businesses that no longer meet the sme definition are excluded from certain support options. moreover, many family businesses try to keep within the sme criteria set by the commission, and the consequences are clear: they do not employ more people, they prevent profit or turnover from growing, and therefore automatically further economic growth. it is also difficult to compare the situation of family businesses across the eu member states. there are more than 90 different definitions of family businesses across the eu. i agree with the suggestions that more data, figures and facts from individual member states are needed to better understand the difficulties and challenges of family businesses and to encourage the exchange of best practice.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of a report by parliament assessing the importance and position of family businesses in europe. parliament noted that small and medium-sized family businesses are constantly faced with the need to innovate and attract new skills and talents, and therefore called on the commission and the member states to offer incentives to smaller family businesses to take risks for growth. family businesses have a long history of being deeply rooted in their location, creating jobs in both rural and less attractive areas, helping to stem the ageing and declining trend in many eu regions. parliament therefore calls on the commission and the member states to establish the economically efficient infrastructure needed to ensure the competitiveness, renewal, growth and sustainability of such enterprises. the commission and the member states are invited to take action to strengthen digital entrepreneurship and digital skills so that family businesses can take full advantage of digital technologies.
in writing. ‒ on the resolution on family businesses in europe, i have voted positively. the truth is that family-run businesses consist 60% of all enterprises in the european union, thus the eu must take care, in order to increase the growth of economy and create the positive environment for the further establishment of family enterprises within the eu. therefore, to prevent the bankruptcies and other failures that trigger family businesses to shut down, policymakers must create the right framework conditions to prevent these job losses. the eu should provide assistance where it is needed. in my opinion, this resolution is particularly objected towards the improvement of business environment which i am in favour of.
in writing. ‒ the commission estimates that around 70% of all businesses in europe are family-owned, which generate between 40% and 60% of private sector jobs. it is therefore worth analysing in more detail the specific nature of this type of business and the incentives that may be available. such enterprises are characterised by long-term sustainability and social responsibility, strengthen the social dimension of the eu economy, and play an important role in the economic development of remote and less developed regions, in particular through self-employment of young people and job creation in rural areas.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. in particular, it is necessary to establish a legally binding definition of family businesses that is applicable in all member states. legal certainty is needed, bureaucracy, which is particularly burdensome for family businesses, must be eliminated, and administrative procedures and tax systems must be simplified. family businesses must be able to benefit from certain support options and be exempted from certain obligations. there is a need to promote entrepreneurship and start-ups at eu level. to develop more entrepreneurial minds, entrepreneurship needs to be promoted more actively in schools and other educational institutions more attention should be paid to the long-term survival and promotion of family businesses. the commission should carry out an impact assessment and a feasibility study on the impact of the study on family businesses. it is also essential to extend the list of beneficiaries of all measures for smes and entrepreneurs to include medium-cap family businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at the exploitation of research and innovation in the blue economy. it is necessary to combat the concealment of information on research campaigns and projects at sea and in the oceans, in particular those funded by public funds. education, research and development are key aspects of sustainable development in the blue economy. emerging sectors, in particular exploration and exploitation of mineral resources, exploration and exploitation of energy resources and biotechnologies, have a very high potential.
in writing. ‒ the i voted on the report by parliament on exploiting the potential of research and innovation in the blue economy for growth and jobs. the exploitation of marine resources to develop sustainable renewable energy sources could make a significant contribution to the eu's energy security strategy by reducing member states' dependence on non-eu energy sources. the commission is invited to list projects it has funded in the past which have been related to the blue economy and to launch a thorough study on the relevance and significance of the blue economy. the financial needs of the blue economy need to be assessed at national and eu level in order to exploit its potential to promote sustainable growth and development and create jobs, with particular attention to regions highly dependent on fisheries. the commission should regularly assess the implementation of horizon 2020 in the blue economy sectors and make the results of the assessment public. parliament supports the establishment of a dedicated maritime industry partnership under horizon 2020 and calls for it to be included in the 2016-2017 work programme of horizon 2020.
in writing. ‒ i have abstained on the report on the research and innovation in the blue economy. my decision was based on the grounds of the adoption of many amendments calling for increased public funding and state aid, and the lack of any mention of the role of the private sector in developing the blue economy. nevertheless, the report is calling for the defence of biodiversity, innovation, research, modernisation, and yet generally, i am in favour of the development of the blue economy as the source of job places which has the potential to contribute to the growth of the economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. the blue economy is of vital importance to europe. the blue economy has a high potential to create jobs and stimulate economic growth. europe's oceans, seas and coasts are and will remain vital to the european economy. however, the blue economy sectors are very vulnerable. therefore, a level playing field cannot be applied. the commission must support an integrated approach. in order to achieve the objectives set, member states must play an important role in the sustainable management and conservation of resources and in ensuring that the common interest, the public good, is given priority. it should be noted that education and training, research and development are key aspects of the sustainable development of the blue economy. therefore, more investment in knowledge and research is needed to develop the blue economy in a sustainable way. in particular, the commission should provide a clear and stable framework for supporting research, business and governments. an appropriate financial framework should be established to promote innovation, the sustainable development of the blue economy and job creation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to establish a strategic, legal and financial framework for the coordination and implementation of education activities in the european union. it is necessary to implement lifelong learning and mobility programmes, to improve the quality and effectiveness of education and training, to promote equal opportunities, social cohesion and active citizenship, and to enhance aspects of creativity and innovation, including entrepreneurship, at all levels of education and training. i support calls for the commission to develop methodological assistance, i.e. to establish educational standards for entrepreneurship education and support for training courses to improve the skills of teachers. to this end, it is necessary to allocate specific financial instruments under the 'erasmus+' programme, if possible, within this period and to develop a legal and financial framework for the period after 2020.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is a parliament's assessment of the use of education and training to promote youth entrepreneurship. entrepreneurial skills and competences should be promoted in order to encourage self-employment among young people and to give a younger generation a real opportunity to start their own business, as well as to help themselves and society in general. to achieve this, we need to develop innovative approaches to education that are more participatory and learner-centred, and that promote the universal competences needed to develop an entrepreneurial mindset. parliament recommends that economic and social aspects be balanced in education strategies in order to ensure that the promotion of entrepreneurship through education is successful. the commission is invited to develop a strategy to develop universal skills: critical thinking, problem solving, initiative, cooperation, focus, planning and leadership, at all levels of education and training and through all types of education and training, as they are useful for different professions and sectors.
in writing. ‒ i have voted favourably on the resolution on promoting youth entrepreneurship through education. the youth training and inclusion of the entrepreneurship as a subject matter in education is extremely important, since it directly results in the employment promotion as it has the practical application. the youth unemployment issue has a significant depth: in the eu the average rate is 22%. thus, the promotion of entrepreneurship is one of the main ways to stop the augmentation of this rate. we must acknowledge the fact that entrepreneurship education has also proven positive impact on individuals that consequently results in the increase of start-ups, development of enterprises. youth entrepreneurship is the key towards the prospective yet sustainable future and higher employment rates.
in writing. ‒ despite economic stabilisation, youth unemployment remains high. in february 2015, 4.85 million young people were unemployed in the european union. the eu has developed strong financial instruments and programmes to tackle youth unemployment. however, the member states bear a large part of the responsibility for the use of these instruments. the eu funds must be used efficiently and responsibly to find long-term and sustainable solutions to the problem, in particular by closing the gap between education and training and the labour market and by promoting youth entrepreneurship. education is a competence of the member states and therefore greater efforts are needed by them to introduce entrepreneurship programmes into national education systems, in cooperation with the private sector and social partners, to create an enabling environment for self-employment and self-reliance of young people.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. young entrepreneurs face a number of challenges and difficulties, including a lack of experience, the necessary skills and access to finance and infrastructure. therefore, particular attention should be paid to entrepreneurial skills and competences. since education policy is the exclusive competence of the member states and the eu only has a coordinating role, the member states have a key role to play. in the field of education, they should focus on practical application, youth employment and improving entrepreneurship education, ensuring quality training and decent working conditions. it is important that the commission should increase funding for support to young entrepreneurs from the european structural and investment funds and help member states to ensure that young entrepreneurs have access to the funding they need and are supported at every stage.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to promote an integrated approach to european cultural heritage. any public policy on cultural heritage should take into account two perspectives: that cultural heritage can be an important source of employment and income this should be taken into account in particular in the current economic context and that the core value of cultural heritage remains its cultural value. the ideal integrated cultural heritage strategy should combine the need to ensure growth and employment as a matter of urgency with the recognition that cultural heritage is a long-term resource that requires a sustainable development plan.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on an integrated approach to european cultural heritage, its preservation and development. culture and cultural heritage are common resources and common goods and values that no one can claim as exclusive rights, and the european parliament therefore asks the commission to set up a common eu portal for tangible and intangible cultural heritage, to collect information on all eu programmes financing cultural heritage, and to support studies, research and pilot measures, in particular to analyse the impact of processes of enhancing cultural heritage, through funding. parliament urged the member states to take initiatives to develop the training of cultural heritage staff and researchers in the field of management and conservation, as the field of cultural heritage has the potential to create highly qualified jobs.
in writing. ‒ i have voted favourably on the resolution towards an integrated approach to cultural heritage in europe. i truly believe that the eu should aim to have an integrated approach towards the domain of cultural heritage. thus the european funding programmes should be presented easier, with as less as possible technocratic obstacles, in order to better communicate information towards potential beneficiaries. nonetheless, i really look favourably upon the notion stressed in the resolution about the connection between culture and economy. as suppose, there is a great potential in the cultural heritage, hence the eu should appreciate it and evaluate the advantages the culture carries, which could increase the growth of the economy, such as the creation of job places. therefore, the eu should take into account the culture as a long-term resource and prepare yet follow reasonable its development plan.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. cultural heritage plays an important role in the creation, preservation and support of european culture and national, regional, local and personal identity and the identity of the contemporary european peoples. it is necessary to protect and enhance europe's cultural heritage as it contributes to strengthening development and improving the quality of people's lives. in this context, the various programmes should be implemented and adequate funding allocated. i support the proposal to declare 2018 the european year of heritage and to allocate the appropriate funding. it should be noted that the funding ceiling for cultural projects should be increased and aligned with the ceiling for unesco projects. private sector support for cultural heritage projects should be encouraged to the greatest extent possible. increased funding must be allocated to studies, research and other related measures.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to give a stronger impetus to the european citizens' initiative 'right2water'. the european citizens' initiative gives eu citizens who have collected one million signatures in at least one quarter of the eu countries the opportunity to ask the commission to propose legislation on issues of concern to them. at the end of 2013, the first eu citizens' initiative 'right to water' gathered almost 1.9 million signatures, calling for the right of all citizens to water and sanitation and against the liberalisation of water services. i support calls on the commission to update the eu water framework directive and to propose other legislation that would recognise the right to affordable water as a fundamental human right. it is also important to underline the obligation of eu countries to ensure that all citizens have access to safe drinking water and quality sanitation services, regardless of the supplier.
in writing. ‒ i voted on the follow-up to the european parliament's report on the european citizens' initiative (eci) right2water. as the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe has declared that access to water must be recognised as a fundamental human right, as it is essential to sustain life on earth and as a resource that must be shared by mankind, the european parliament considers that the european citizens' initiative is an exceptional democratic mechanism that can help bring together the social and civil society movements in europe and the member states and promote participatory democracy at eu level. the commission is strongly encouraged to implement the european citizens' initiative regulation effectively and to continue to remove all administrative obstacles faced by citizens in providing or supporting an eci. the commission should take into account the main objective of the right2water eip, to present legislative proposals and, if necessary, a revision of the water framework directive, which recognise the human right to water and the need for access to water for all. parliament believes that failure by the commission to do so will undermine citizens' confidence in the european citizens' initiative as an instrument of participatory democracy and that the commission should therefore have a particular interest in pursuing this initiative.
in writing. ‒ i have abstained on the report on the european citizens' initiative right2water. first of all, i generally support the demands of the european citizens’ initiative, also the call for the right to water and sanitation should be guaranteed via its inclusion in the charter of fundamental rights. however, i could not support the over-reaching demands of the resolution which included many off-topic political statements on austerity and troika policies, against trade agreements as well as an outright ban of all private initiatives in water management.
in writing. water is not a commodity but a public good, which is essential to human life and dignity. the commission cannot ignore the right of initiative of citizens. it must take into account the main objective of the right2water initiative. it should make proposals as soon as possible for legislative acts and, if necessary, for the revision of the water framework directive in order to recognise the human right to water. the human right to water and water must be accessible to all. access to sufficient and adequate drinking water is a fundamental human right that national governments must guarantee. in this context, it is important to ensure that water and sanitation services are provided at affordable prices. i believe that universal access to safe drinking water and sanitation should be included in the scope of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i would like to congratulate the european parliament and the two million europeans who signed the citizens' initiative. a very important document was adopted today. the text calls on the commission to submit proposals for legislative acts and, if necessary, to revise the water framework directive. i think that's the only way we can properly guarantee the right of people to water. equally important, the report stresses that water, sanitation and wastewater treatment services would not be included in any trade agreements, including the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership.
on behalf of the s&d group mr rapporteur, i thank you from the bottom of my heart for your well-written report and for our close cooperation. indeed, the european year for solidarity between generations and active ageing was important for our people, as it gave impetus to both generational solidarity and further active ageing policy-making in the member states. this has once again confirmed that older people are not a burden to the economy and society, but an asset, primarily because of their experience, their achievements, their knowledge. qualification, experience, wisdom, loyalty to the employer are those great values, so we have to encourage employers to take and keep older workers in the labour market, help them to improve their skills, adapt their working conditions. member states must also ensure the sustainability of pension systems, while guaranteeing people a decent income in retirement to enable them to live a life of dignity and activity. unfortunately, poverty among the elderly has increased in some eu countries over the past five years, putting their nutrition, health and energy deprivation at risk. this requires some appropriate solutions at both the european union and national levels. member states must also strengthen the quality of public infrastructure for older people - i.e. day-care centres, home care, quality in-patient care and care services, and finally a suitable public transport system. and we really need to use the european union's structural funds for that. commissioner, i am asking you to look at the problem of unemployment among people over 50 and the commission, together with the member states, local authorities and the social partners, must analyse the causes of unemployment among older people and propose concrete measures to increase their employment. and i want to conclude by saying that it is really unwise to link retirement age solely to life expectancy. it is necessary to assess the situation of the labour market in the european union and, finally, the physical capacity of the individual to survive in the labour market for as long as possible. is there a risk that by reducing the number of pensioners, by raising the retirement age, we will increase the number of unemployed? i wish you a good working relationship for the sake of our older generation.
in writing. the european union has been working for some time to achieve gender equality in the academic appointments in academia and universities. positive developments have been made in these areas in recent years, but gender equality remains an urgent issue in the european union. according to the 2012 she figures, women account for only 10% of all rectors, and although for several years in a row the increase in the proportion of women in science was faster than that of men, this seemed a promising change, the number of female researchers is still far below that of the opposite sex. the contribution of women to society must be equally valued and respected. gender equality is an aspiration, but it is also a prerequisite for women and girls to enjoy their full human rights. this is the only way to empower them and strengthen their position in a male-dominated labour market and society. support networks and sharing of best practices will inspire women to pursue their careers and not allow a society governed by stereotypes to limit women's opportunities to pursue careers in science and academia. parliament encouraged the commission to build on existing programmes and initiatives and to develop positive campaigns, paying particular attention to the engineering and technology sector, where, despite recent achievements, the participation of women is below average. awareness-raising campaigns should target men and women who, consciously or unconsciously, promote gender stereotypes that make women unwittingly resist cultural and institutional barriers to advancing in the scientific career.
i would like to quote australian prime minister tony abbott, who, when asked if his country was going to take in illegal migrants from myanmar and bangladesh, said, "we're not going to do anything that encourages people to get on boats. this would only complicate the problem of illegal migration. i don't think any of us think that prime minister abbott is a disrespectful person to the values of humanity. we have opened pandora's box and condemned europe. we've done this by undermining the immigrant quota system, by sending a signal that you're welcome here, that you'll be taken care of. the flow of migrants into europe has increased 11 times in one year, and if we continue as we are, the european parliament will do nothing for the rest of its term but increase the quota for illegal immigrants.
in writing. the influx of migration is also due to the passivity of the international community in the face of civil wars, despotism and injustice. we were busy with other things, trying to keep our hands to ourselves, until the problem finally got beyond our borders. what's more, we're seeing a new player entering the hot spot, looking for nothing more than geopolitical revenge. action is needed to help tackle the problem at its roots, to help third countries that are hosting even larger numbers of refugees. also strengthen the eu's external border by providing the necessary mandates and resources to the relevant eu missions and institutions. combating the highly organised and rapidly changing illegal trafficking of human beings. finally, ensure that asylum in the eu is granted to those who really need it - especially the most vulnerable groups. yes, this is indeed a european problem, and the solution must be pan-european. but solidarity cannot be imposed. the parties should be brought closer together to ensure the sustainability of decisions and the effectiveness of their implementation. some countries need to do a lot to adapt their integration programmes to new and drastically increased needs. such countries should urgently seek and receive examples of good practice on how to properly and fully integrate refugees and their families into peaceful and democratic conditions, by giving them the opportunity to work and earn, to study and learn, and to become full, productive members of society.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to change the name of the 'delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council' to 'delegation for relations with palestine'.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation, which seeks to conclude a protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement with guinea-bissau. the first fisheries agreement with guinea-bissau was concluded in 1980 and since then eu member states' fleets have been granted fishing opportunities in guinea-bissau's waters. several protocols to the agreement were subsequently signed, the last of which was in force until 15 june 2012. the new eu-bissau guinea agreement provides for an annual financial contribution of eur 9.2 million, i.e. eur 6.2 million for access to the resources of the bissau guinea economic zone and eur 3 million to support the development of the country's fishing sector. i support the conclusion of this protocol because it is of great importance both for guinea-bissau and for the european fleet fishing in its waters. however, it is important to carry out a more detailed assessment of the future prospects of this agreement. a better link should be established between support to the sector under the fisheries agreement and development cooperation measures. i agree that it is necessary to improve the quantity and reliability of information on the catch and conservation status of marine resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted on the report from the european parliament expressing its support for the council decision on the conclusion of a protocol between the european community and the republic of guinea-bissau in the fisheries sector. this protocol establishes the fishing opportunities and financial contribution of both parties to the agreement in addition to the agreement already in force.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the recommendation on the draft on the conclusion of the protocol. i believe that it is important to provide fishing opportunities to eu vessels in the waters of guinea bissau within the limits of the available surplus and to enhance the sectorial cooperation between both parties. since the first agreement between the eu and guinea bissau in 1980, there have been no significant achievements, and yet, this should be changed. in my opinion, this agreement must promote genuine sustainable development in the guinean fisheries sector and related industries and activities, increasing the added value that stays in the country as a result of exploiting its natural resources.
in writing. i agree with the recommendation for the conclusion of the protocol. the eu has a major responsibility for ensuring the conservation and sustainable management of international fisheries resources. the fisheries partnership agreement with guinea-bissau will ensure the implementation of the principles of good regulation in the fisheries sector and sound maritime management. this is a very important agreement, which provides for the possibility of mixed fisheries. it is worth noting that this agreement will strengthen cooperation between the eu and guinea-bissau. it will also contribute to the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and will help ensure that fisheries resources are used responsibly in guinea-bissau's fishing zone.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal for a protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement with guinea-bissau. the first fisheries agreement with guinea-bissau was concluded in 1980 and since then eu member states' fleets have been granted fishing opportunities in guinea-bissau's waters. several protocols to the agreement were subsequently signed, the last of which was in force until 15 june 2012. the new eu-bissau guinea agreement provides for an annual financial contribution of eur 9.2 million, i.e. eur 6.2 million for access to the resources of the bissau guinea economic zone and eur 3 million to support the development of the country's fishing sector. i support the conclusion of this protocol because it is of great importance both for guinea-bissau and for the european fleet fishing in its waters. however, it is important to carry out a more detailed assessment of the future prospects of this agreement. a better link should be established between support to the sector under the fisheries agreement and development cooperation measures. i agree that it is necessary to improve the quantity and reliability of information on the catch and conservation status of marine resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted on the report from the european parliament on the council decision on the conclusion of the protocol between the european union and the republic of guinea-bissau setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of guinea-bissau. the agreement is of great importance both for the bissau guinean fleet and for the eu fleet operating in bissau guinean waters, and parliament considers that the results achieved so far in the area of sectoral cooperation are insufficient and calls on the commission to take all necessary steps to develop mechanisms for greater transparency, accountability and participation of beneficiaries, in particular small-scale traditional fishing communities. the possibilities for employing local seafarers on eu vessels provided for in the protocol should be fully exploited. parliament calls on the commission and the council, within their respective mandates, to keep parliament fully informed at all stages of the procedures relating to the new protocol and its renewal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report containing a motion for a non-legislative resolution. i consider the partnership between the eu and guinea-bissau to be highly potential, as it pursues a sustainable fisheries policy while exploiting fishery resources in a responsible and sustainable way in the guinea-bissau exclusive economic zone. also it stresses to obtain an appropriate share, corresponding to the interests of the eu fleets, of the fishing surpluses available. moreover, this partnership is the solution to the need to reinforce measures to prevent illegal, unreported and unregulated fish, as well as the need to install mechanisms for increased transparency, accountability and participation of beneficiaries. all in all, i am in favour of this non—legislative resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation, which aims to conclude a protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement with the cape verde. it aims to strengthen cooperation between the eu and cape verde in the pursuit of sustainable fisheries. the protocol agreed to implement a strict monitoring mechanism to ensure sustainable resource use and committed to follow the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which parliament expresses its support for the council decision on the conclusion of a protocol between the european community and the republic of cape verde in the fisheries sector. this protocol establishes the fishing opportunities and financial contribution of both parties to the agreement in addition to the agreement already in force.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol between the eu and the republic of cape verde. i find it important to grant fishing opportunities to union vessels in the fishing zone of the republic of cape verde. yet we should enhance cooperation between the european union and the republic of cape verde, thereby creating a partnership framework within which to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and sound exploitation of fishery resources in the fishing zone of the republic of cape verde, in the interests of both parties. not to mention the important notion to contribute to better management and conservation of fishery resources, through financial support.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation for the establishment of a protocol. in particular, the protocol will strengthen cooperation between the european union and the republic of cape verde and ensure the development of sustainable and responsible fisheries. this agreement will benefit both parties. secondly, european union fishing vessels will be given the opportunity to fish in the fishing zone of the republic of cape verde. in order to ensure sustainable fishing, it is necessary to ensure that the tacs are established on the basis of specific and reliable scientific data. it should be noted that the financial support for the implementation of programmes adopted at national level by the partner country will contribute to the improvement of the conservation and management of fisheries resources, in particular the control and combating of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement with the cape verde. it aims to strengthen cooperation between the eu and cape verde in the pursuit of sustainable fisheries. the protocol agreed to implement a strict monitoring mechanism to ensure sustainable resource use and committed to follow the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this parliament's report on the council decision on the conclusion of the protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde. the protocol aims to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the republic of cape verde with a view to establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the fishing zone of the republic of cape verde, taking into account the interests of both parties. parliament welcomes the new protocol on fisheries between the european union and the republic of cape verde, which is being adopted in line with the environmental and socioeconomic sustainability measures of the new common fisheries policy (cfp). the commission and the council are invited to keep parliament immediately and fully informed, within the limits of their respective powers, at all stages of the procedures relating to the protocol and its renewal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report containing a motion for a non-legislative resolution. i truly believe that the partnership between the eu and the republic of cape verde is mutually beneficial yet necessary. first of all, according to the european union’s fisheries partnership agreements (fpas), we should promote sustainability and the development of the partner countries’ fisheries sector, which i truly believe is what this resolution is orientated at. moreover, these agreements are beneficial to the eu fishing sector and to the partner countries, as it also strengthens the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to conclude a protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement with madagascar. it lists the target species, the estimated value of the fish, the amount to be invested and the total expected return on investment, the observer programme to be carried out alongside the fishing activities, the list of vulnerable and protected species, and the guidelines that should encourage detailed scientific monitoring, including the possibility of experimental fishing. i agree with the suggestions that methods and technologies should be defined to conserve vulnerable species.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which parliament expresses its support for the council decision on the conclusion of a protocol between the european community and the republic of madagascar in the fisheries sector. this protocol establishes the fishing opportunities and financial contribution of both parties to the agreement in addition to the agreement already in force.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour on the recommendation of the protocol concerned with the fpa between the republic of madagascar and the european community. as the protocol is an important part of a broader network of fisheries agreements with coastal states in the south-western part of the indian ocean and the partnership agreement provides for the employment of seamen from the republic of madagascar or acp countries. not to mention that the agreement sets out the broad lines for detailed scientific monitoring, including the possibility of carrying out experimental fishing campaigns.
in writing. i am in favour of concluding this agreement, which will ensure responsible and sustainable fishing. it should be noted that the partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of madagascar is based on the rules established under the management mandate of the indian ocean tuna commission and other international rules. this agreement will be of great benefit to both parties. in line with the eu's commitment to support the development of national fisheries sectors in the countries with which it cooperates, the agreement identifies vulnerable and protected species, defines guidelines that should encourage detailed scientific monitoring, including the possibility of experimental fishing, and indicates the amounts to be invested and the overall return on investment expected. it is important to ensure that the majority of the eu financial contribution is devoted to supporting a sustainable national fisheries policy. the agreement also establishes a programme of observers to be carried out alongside fishing activities.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. there are still wide differences between the border procedures of developed and developing countries, and trade is slowed down by poor infrastructure, inefficient customs management and excessive bureaucracy. the trade facilitation agreement and the trade liberalisation process aim to reduce the cost of trade in order to stimulate exports and economic activity. the new agreement should significantly reduce the time and cost of trade, thereby helping businesses to expand and the least developed countries to take advantage of new export opportunities, and i therefore support its conclusion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives parliament its support for the council decision amending the treaty establishing the world trade organisation (the marrakesh treaty). parliament endorses the conclusion of an agreement amending the treaty establishing the world trade organisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the wto. the tfa contains a set of measures designed to improve the cross-border movement of goods by improving transparency, streamlining customs procedures and eliminating red tape. it also contains innovative flexibilities for developing countries. thus, the first section of the agreement stresses the commitments for expediting the movement, release and clearance of goods. i truly believe that the tfa is essential for developing countries as it helps to increase investments which eventually boost countries’ economy and further development. and most importantly, the eu is committed to cover a significant share of the funding needs and technical assistance for counties most in need to implement the agreement.
in writing. agree to the conclusion of the agreement. the wto is pleased to have finally reached the first multilateral agreement on the new rules. it should be noted that this is a pioneering agreement, which sets out an innovative approach. the new agreement should significantly reduce the time and cost of trade and provide a favourable environment for business development. it will also benefit those parties that trade and implement commitments quickly. it should be noted that the agreement aims at positive integration through concrete practices and through the use of certain policy instruments. in order to ensure the effective implementation of the provisions envisaged, greater transparency and closer cooperation between customs authorities should be encouraged.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. there are still wide differences between the border procedures of developed and developing countries, and trade is slowed down by poor infrastructure, inefficient customs management and excessive bureaucracy. the trade facilitation agreement and the trade liberalisation process aim at reducing the costs of trade in order to stimulate exports and economic activity. the new agreement should significantly reduce the time and cost of trade, thereby helping businesses to expand and the least developed countries to take advantage of new export opportunities, and i therefore support its conclusion.
in writing. ‒ i voted on the parliament's report on the draft council decision amending the treaty establishing the world trade organisation (marrakesh treaty) to facilitate trade. parliament fully supports the european union's initiative to allocate eur 400 million over five years to finance trade facilitation reforms and projects, such as the improvement of customs systems in developing and least developed countries. the provision of such assistance should be coordinated very closely with other international donors providing financing, such as the united nations conference on trade and development (unctad), the wto and the world bank.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the wto. the tfa contains a set of measures designed to improve the cross-border movement of goods by improving transparency, streamlining customs procedures and eliminating red tape. it also contains innovative flexibilities for developing countries. thus, the agreement stresses the commitments for expediting the movement, release and clearance of goods. i truly believe that the tfa is essential for developing countries as it helps to increase investments which eventually boost countries’ economy and further development. and most importantly, the eu is committed to cover a significant share of the funding needs and technical assistance for counties most in need to implement the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the budapest convention on the carriage of goods by inland waterways entered into force in 2005. this convention contributes to the establishment of an internal market in transport by harmonising, for this purpose, the contracts and standards of inland navigation throughout europe. eleven member states have already acceded to the budapest convention. this proposal empowers belgium and poland to ratify the budapest convention and austria to accede to it.
in writing. ‒ i voted on the report from the european parliament in which parliament supports the council's decision to ratify the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways (cmni). this convention authorises the kingdom of belgium and the republic of poland to ratify the budapest convention and the republic of austria to accede to this draft.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the draft on the authorisation for austria, belgium and poland to ratify the convention. i believe that the member states which have navigable inland waterways falling within the scope of the budapest convention should therefore be authorised to ratify or accede to the convention. since the expressed interest of austria and poland to become a part of the convention, their participation will foster the broad implementation of this legal instrument, with benefits for citizens and businesses. even though belgium ratified the convention on 5 august 2008, i do consider that we should give retroactive authorisation in order to rectify the current irregular situation.
in writing. ‒ the i have voted in favour of relocating 40,000 asylum seekers from italy and greece to other eu countries over the next two years. i support the proposed mandatory eu refugee relocation mechanism and calls for the necessary funds to be allocated to the reception and integration of refugees. better cooperation with third countries, penalties for trafficking in human beings and ensuring safe and legal access to the eu asylum system are the top priorities for addressing the refugee crisis today.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this parliament's legislative resolution establishing provisional measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece. the commission recently presented a comprehensive european agenda on migration. the agenda notes that member states' asylum systems are currently under particular pressure and that reception and processing capacities are already at their maximum capacity due to the high number of arrivals, especially in border member states. the annex to the agenda contains a redistribution scheme based on criteria set out in the agenda, such as gdp, population, unemployment rate, number of previous asylum seekers and number of relocated refugees, in order to alleviate the pressure on greece and italy, which are the most affected by the mediterranean crisis.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report on the proposal to establish provisional measures in the area of the international protection for the benefit of italy and greece. i truly believe, it is urgent that we provide holistic support to member states under pressure and ensure ownership and build trust with other member states. therefore, this proposal enables to increase solidarity and responsibility sharing between member states. it is essential to remember that the refugees have their preferences and we should ensure to consider it. thus, this emergency measure is a first step but a more permanent measure is needed.
in writing. ‒ given the fact that more than 70% of the european population are living in urban areas and cities are affected by european regulation, but the coordination of various proposals with each other is not always coherent and implementation of them for cities is not easy, it is more than clear that a sustainable eu urban development policy requires an indispensable and a more unified eu approach. therefore, i fully support this report and voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report by parliament, which discusses the urban dimension of european union policy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the urban and rural development programmes, the urban and rural development programmes and the rural development programmes. the commission is invited to adopt a more location-based integrated territorial approach in the preparation of new policy initiatives for urban areas, in order to ensure coherence and to enable cities and functional urban areas to achieve the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth set out in the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. ‒ i have voted favourably on the report on the urban dimension of eu policies. in my opinion, it is extremely important to examine the urban policy challenges for eu policy makers and to devise guidelines and boundaries for a future sustainable eu urban development policy, as it is the purpose of this report. moreover, commission should take the eu urban agenda into account in its next programme of work, in order to propose the necessary measures for its implementation in order to help cities and better coordinate cohesion funds allocation to them. fundamentally, i believe that usefulness and success of the programme lie within the smooth implementation of the eu policies at the local level.
in writing. i support the report by kerstin westphal. the main economic, social and environmental challenges transcend traditional administrative boundaries and, in the light of the increasing discrepancies between administrative and territorial structures (urban-suburban cooperation, urban-rural cooperation, etc.), new forms of flexible governance are needed to continue the integrated territorial development of functional areas.
madam president, madam high representative, it is now 21 years since alexander lukashenko came to power, having been so-called freely and democratically elected. we in europe seem to be rather tired of trying to find a solution to how to help the people of belarus more effectively. over this period of time we have tested many things, starting from sanctions, travel restrictions and asset freezing and ending with re-engagement or critical dialogue, which seems to be the case at the moment. i must say very openly that i do not believe in lukashenko starting to behave in a way which is different from that which we have already observed. playing politics of promises and lies is not our style and we should not take part in such games. yes, today we welcome the release of six political prisoners, but those freed have not been rehabilitated, contrary to our demands. yes, there will be so-called elections in belarus very soon, but the country’s electoral code has never been reformed, contrary to our expectations. so we are going to see one more re-election of mr lukashenko, with no votes counted at the polling stations and no independent observers allowed to prove it. yes, belarus has been hosting negotiations trying to end the war against ukraine, but at same time, belarus voted against the un resolution on 27 march 2014. let us wait for the coming elections before we make any major decisions about belarus.
social enterprises are undoubtedly beneficial to society. it enhances the economic competitiveness of a country, promotes smart growth through social innovation, promotes social cohesion and reduces inequalities. i therefore support the idea in the report that the european union must support all types of social enterprises. we need to encourage the development of these companies, because they create long-term jobs. a good example is a restaurant in the lithuanian capital, which aims to facilitate the reintegration of non-users into society and the labour market. after successfully completing the rehabilitation program, 70 percent of the cafeteria's employees are now working as waiters, bartenders and cooks. we would like to see more examples of this, and we need to create business incubators for these companies, to ensure that entrepreneurs from different countries share their experience, to enable young people to participate in training and to help financially to set up these types of companies.
in the european parliament, we have repeatedly called on the commission and the council to take note and to take action on the spread of precarious employment, as abusive employment contracts, including those that do not specify working hours, are often abused and abused to avoid compliance with employment and social security obligations. there are many cases where employees are contracted on a temporary or part-time basis, even though people are actually working full-time and on a permanent basis. unfortunately, workers in these types of jobs are the most vulnerable, the most likely to lose their jobs and the least protected by social security. so, alongside high unemployment, the eu is also experiencing a rise in non-standard forms of employment. i therefore ask you, commissioner, whether action should not be taken as soon as possible in this area and consultations be initiated on possible european legislation on atypical forms of employment and contracts? because that's the only way we're gonna be able to do this job without any guarantees.
in writing. social entrepreneurship and social innovation in the fight against unemployment, which parliament is currently pursuing, are among the most important challenges facing the eu today. the economic and financial crisis has increased poverty and social exclusion. long-term unemployment has increased, particularly among young people. it is for these reasons that it is worth considering the possibility of developing a more sustainable economic model for the european union, with a greater focus on the creation and development of social and solidarity-based enterprises. social and solidarity-based enterprises have demonstrated their ability to adapt to economic and social circumstances and offer more flexible and innovative working conditions. this is reflected in the fact that social economy enterprises are well established at local and regional level, which gives them an advantage because they know the specific needs and can offer the right solutions. however, their main objective is not just to make a profit, but more importantly to have a positive impact on society, i.e. to fight unemployment, poverty and support education. also noteworthy is the feature highlighted by the reporter, which highlights the growing problems facing the european union an ageing society and the lowest population growth rates in the world. the commission and the member states are therefore invited to develop long-term plans to strengthen social and territorial cohesion in the union and to help overcome demographic challenges. support for social and solidarity-based economy enterprises will help to address many problems and, most importantly, to strengthen the position of the most excluded and disadvantaged groups in the labour market.
in writing. the unprecedented number of gross violations of human rights and the rule of law in russia only confirms the worrying fact of an entrenched undemocratic regime. these russian actions are directed not only against russia itself, but also against citizens of other countries. examples of such behaviour include the sentences handed down in late august to the ukrainian film director oleg sentsov and his colleague aleksandr kolchenko. it is noteworthy that the case of these individuals is clearly political. no concrete evidence of their involvement in criminal activities was presented during the trial, despite which mr sentsov was sentenced to 20 years' imprisonment and mr kolchenko to 10 years' imprisonment. many prominent artists from around the world have condemned this political persecution in an open letter to vladimir putin. the eu and the us have also called for the release of the accused. the abduction of estonian security officer eston kohveri at the border with russia and his 15 year prison sentence in august in a fabricated case pose an even greater security challenge to the eu. the commission has also been informed by the estonian authorities that the measures taken to prevent the further detention of mr karamanlis are in breach of the principle of the territorial integrity of the republic of estonia. this requires the union to pay particular attention to the security problem of the eastern member states. these and other cases show that the situation in russia is deteriorating and therefore any discussion on normalising relations with russia, lifting sanctions against it and similar issues must be conducted in the light of the above cases.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this important report, because the cohesion policy remains an essential instrument for maintaining investment levels in various eu member states and a tool to overcome new challenges and threats facing the eu. moreover, we shouldn’t forget that the primary goal of cohesion policy ought not to be regarded only to reinforce economic, social and territorial cohesion in all eu regions, particularly of less developed and the least favoured but also as an investment policy in the territories. thus, i believe, that this report which encourages investment for jobs and growth in eu regions is of great significance and corresponds with the core aims of the cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ the treaty on the functioning of the european union requires the commission to present a cohesion report every three years 'on progress towards economic, social and territorial cohesion...'. the report shows that the implementation of cohesion policy during the 2007-2013 programming period has mitigated the impact of a sharp decline in public investment, which in some member states was more than 60% and in the eu on average 20%. investment in cohesion has provided stability to regions by providing funding when national public and private investment has declined or even stopped. i agree that it is necessary to think about cohesion policy beyond 2020 now and to make sure that the post-2020 cohesion policy puts communities and citizens at the centre and ensures the well-being of each of them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this parliament's report on investing in jobs and growth - promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion in the union. the primary objective of cohesion policy is to promote economic, social and territorial cohesion and to reduce regional disparities by providing special support to less developed regions. by its nature and the initial structure laid down in the treaty, this policy naturally contributes to the achievement of the union's objectives, in particular the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and the treaty's core objective of strengthening territorial cohesion. parliament therefore calls on the commission to carefully assess the cases in which financial corrections or suspensions will be applied, taking into account the possible consequences for growth and job creation.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report on the cohesion policy that includes the notion for the investment for jobs and growth. primarily, the core targets of cohesion investments as the digitalisation, energy efficiency, employment and smes are the key areas that promise the creation of job places. on the note of effectiveness and investment, i agree with the rapporteur that some flexibility is needed for the regions, depending on their local situation, especially in the context of the severe crisis. above all, as we can see the results, the cohesion policy has mitigated the decline of public investments in many member states during the crisis. therefore, it should be requested to fully use the simplification possibilities within the cohesion policy regulation as well as increase the synergies with the other eu programmes and financial instruments.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy has certainly helped to keep investment in less attractive regions during the crisis, and it helps to address the problems of balanced, smart and sustainable growth, job creation and youth unemployment. the budget for the implementation of cohesion policy objectives until 2020 is over eur 350 billion. it is important that the new european fund for strategic investments also complements the objectives of cohesion policy, so that projects are not concentrated exclusively on highly developed areas, otherwise there is a risk that the gap between well-developed and less developed regions, urban and rural areas may only widen. it is necessary to address the problem of late payments, which hampers the implementation of projects, especially for small beneficiaries, who often have difficulty in financing project activities in advance with their own funds.
in writing. i support this initiative. the creation of new jobs is one of the priority criteria. to create the basic conditions for the development of all aspects of society, to enable everyone to work, to be prosperous and to live culturally.
in writing. ‒ the year 2012 has been declared the european year of older persons and solidarity between generations. the general objective is to raise general awareness of the value and the different aspects of active ageing, to stimulate debate, exchange of information and mutual learning, and to promote actions that contribute to the elimination of age discrimination, the overcoming of age-related stereotypes and the removal of barriers. i agree that the initiatives launched in the 2012 european year should be continued and further implemented. it is important to highlight the important achievements of the forthcoming convention on demographic change. i agree that the commission should provide funding for this future convention, which is an open and large network, already bringing together more than 270 local and regional authorities, academics and civil society organisations, committed to tackling the challenge of demographic change in europe by promoting an age-friendly environment.
in writing. ‒ the european year for solidarity between generations and active ageing 2012 was very important for our people, as it gave a strong impetus not only to solidarity between generations but also to the development of active ageing policies in the member states. i think we can summarise that the european year of active ageing was a success the events and initiatives of the european year 2012 confirmed that older people are not a burden on the economy and society, but rather an asset through their experience, achievements and knowledge. we must therefore continue to work to change the misconceptions about older people's ability to work. qualifications, experience, intelligence and loyalty to the employer must be valued at least as highly as youth, foreign languages and computer skills. age discrimination, which may take the form of an unjustified refusal to accept a job or a strong suggestion to leave your job to someone younger, is also not allowed. there is also a need to increase the incentives for employers to recruit and retain older workers, and to help them improve their skills and adapt their working conditions.
in writing. ‒ i have voted favourably on the report on the assessment of the 2012 european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations. i find it very important to look for the best solution and get the most of the situation of the ageing population, although it seems as an entirely negative circumstance. first of all, we should maintain the optimal conditions of the employability of older workers, as it could be achieved by updating their skills during the training sessions. also, it is important to promote age-friendly environments that would contribute to the development of equal opportunities. most of all, i believe that the initiatives launched in the frame of the ey 2012 should be followed-up and continued.
in writing. the initiatives launched in the 2012 european year should be continued and further implemented. it is very important to promote an environment that is conducive to older people.
in writing. ‒ in its 2011 transport white paper, the commission set out an ambitious strategy for a future competitive transport system, with a view to enhancing mobility, removing bottlenecks in key areas and promoting growth and employment. together, these proposals will help to achieve a significant reduction in europe's dependence on imported oil and a 60% reduction in vehicle co2 emissions by 2050. i agree that the main objectives should be a reliable and competitive global transport system, competition for eu airlines, the transition to a low-carbon transport system, a balance between the different transport modes, and a common european transport area. it is important that the medium-term review of the transport white paper should be carried out with a long-term vision (2050). the list of initiatives and actions set out in the white paper should be continuously endorsed and complemented and their effectiveness in achieving the common long-term objectives assessed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this parliament's report on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport policy, the review of the results and the next steps towards sustainable mobility. a european sustainable mobility policy must be based on a range of policy instruments to move towards the economic use of low-emission and low-energy vehicles. the commission is invited to update the emission reduction targets set out in the white paper, as set out in parliament's resolution of 5 february 2014 on a 2030 climate and energy policy strategy and in the european council conclusions of 23 and 24 october 2014 on a 2030 climate and energy policy strategy, and to propose measures to help member states achieve the binding eu target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions within the eu by at least 40% by 2030 compared to 1990 levels.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport. i truly support the stronger harmonisation of the european transport area and a fairer competition in transport. also, the implementation of the initiatives presented on the 2011 white paper should be speeded up. i believe it is necessary to achieve the single european sky and the 4th railway package. above all, the progress is crucially needed: new models of transport must be created, which would be more effective and sustainable, which would increase the speed of the movement of people and goods within the eu. these are the grounds on which i have decided to vote favourably on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to support and promote the careers of women in science and universities. statistics show that women are underrepresented in most science, engineering and management positions and at higher levels of the hierarchy, even in sectors where women are predominant, such as education. i support the calls in the proposal for the commission to build on existing programmes and initiatives and develop positive campaigns to encourage girls and women to pursue academic and scientific careers in all fields of science, with particular attention to the engineering and technology sector. the commission, the member states and relevant stakeholders should strengthen initiatives and programmes to encourage women to pursue scientific and academic careers, and to support women researchers, in particular young women, participating in research programmes and applying for grants. it is also necessary to create universities and research institutes that are family-friendly.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report by parliament, which deals with the career of women in science and universities and the glass ceilings they face. the european union is committed to gender equality in academic appointments and, despite positive developments in recent years, gender equality in science and academia is still far from being achieved, and the situation with regard to research and different categories of academics is different in all member states. parliament encourages the commission and the member states to analyse the legal provisions in force with a view to their proper implementation and, if necessary, to their revision in order to ensure equal treatment for women and men. it is imperative to build on existing programmes and initiatives and develop positive campaigns to encourage girls and women to pursue academic and scientific careers in all fields of science, with particular attention to the engineering and technology sector, where, despite recent positive developments, female participation is below average.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report on women’s careers in science. despite the increasing numbers of women participating in the field of research, gender inequality remains a relevant issue. unequal treatment and discrimination of women is a gross violation of their basic human rights, therefore it is extremely important to improve network opportunities for female scientists. as well as for campaigns to encourage women to pursue scientific careers, especially in engineering and the technology sector. i believe that the balanced participation of both genders in science is the key objective which ultimately will contribute to the eu's competitiveness and growth aims.
in writing. despite all efforts to promote gender equality and equal opportunities, women still have unequal access to positions in the research sector, to funding, to publishing services and to academic awards, and are subject to rigid promotion and recognition criteria, and lack funding or adequate support policies.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of a report by parliament on the empowerment of girls through education in the european union. women represent the majority (60%) of higher education graduates in the european union, but their employment rates and promotion trends do not reflect their full potential. the commission and the member states must take measures to ensure that gender equality is applied at all levels of the education system and that gender issues are fully integrated into the training programmes of teachers and all school staff, and to ensure that mechanisms are in place throughout the education system to promote, implement, monitor and evaluate gender equality in educational institutions. member states shall ensure that the objectives of their education systems include education based on respect for fundamental rights and freedoms and equal rights and opportunities for women and men.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour on the report on empowering girls through education in the eu. there is a considerable issue with the gender inequality; while women are more likely to have a higher education degree, they are still under-represented in science, research studies. as the eu is promoting the gender equality within the employment, we should also take into account the importance of education and the situation of gender gap there. it is important to encourage and promote gender equality in education, raise girls’ profiles and skills and ultimately improve their personal and professional development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to remove the obstacles to the creation of a full internal market. the eea agreement is one of the main drivers of economic growth and the most far-reaching instrument for the expansion of the single market to third countries. strong eea-swiss relations go beyond economic integration and the expansion of the single market they contribute to stability and prosperity for the benefit of all citizens and businesses, including smes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report by parliament, which deals with the obstacles to the full internal market for the eea and switzerland. changes within the eu have shown that the eea is a strong, effective and well-functioning arrangement that also ensures the long-term integrity of the single market, and the efta states are therefore encouraged to make greater efforts, in close cooperation with the eu, to maintain the integrity of the single market, thereby avoiding obstacles to the full completion of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report on eea-switzerland full implementation of the internal market. primarily, the eea agreement is considered to be solid and well-functioning in ensuring the integrity of the single market, although there is a transportation deficit. moreover, it is important to achieve the mutual benefit of switzerland and the eu by implementing the all-encompassing bilateral agreement, which would allow to cope with the new challenges. and, above all, we should ensure that the swiss authorities would treat the europeans the same way, without any discrimination.
in writing. ‒ the i have voted in favour of relocating 40,000 asylum seekers from italy and greece to other eu countries over the next two years. i support the proposed mandatory eu refugee relocation mechanism and calls for the necessary funds to be allocated to the reception and integration of refugees. better cooperation with third countries, penalties for trafficking in human beings and ensuring safe and legal access to the eu asylum system are the top priorities for addressing the refugee crisis today.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to strengthen the eu's role in the middle east peace process. i agree that there is an urgent need to renew efforts to achieve peace in a convincing way. israel and palestine should avoid actions that could lead to further escalation of the conflict. i support calls for the high representative of the union to make better use of the eu's political relations with its member states and the practical experience of its institutions in order to play a genuine political role in the israeli-palestinian peace process
in writing. - i voted for this resolution on the situation in belarus. the release of the remaining political prisoners by the belarusian authorities is welcome, but it is worrying that similar actions have been taken before, but they were merely symbolic gestures and did not contribute to the improvement of the situation of belarusian society or to better relations with the eu. i support calls for belarus to hold the upcoming presidential elections in accordance with internationally recognised standards, and to give the opposition unhindered access to all government-controlled media. the belarusian authorities are required to ensure that democratic principles and human rights are respected in all circumstances.
in writing. ‒ despite the intensification of relations between belarus and the european union and the united states, human rights violations in belarus continue. intimidation of human rights defenders, police raids on human rights organisations, confiscation of their equipment, and forced expulsions from belarus. in belarus, weaknesses in the electoral process and active persecution of opposition leaders have been noted following the elections, which were recorded by independent international observers. for these reasons, parliament calls on belarus to hold the next presidential elections in accordance with internationally recognised standards, to give the opposition unhindered access to all government-controlled media and to allow its members to participate in the elections on equal terms.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal on social entrepreneurship and social innovation in the fight against unemployment. the eu's 2020 strategy set out the guidelines to be followed in the coming years, but the economic and financial crisis has caused the eu to move away from these objectives. in the near future, the eu must address important challenges such as economic and financial sustainability, social well-being and, above all, job creation, with particular attention to the most vulnerable groups, such as, among others, young people, women, the elderly, the long-term unemployed, the disabled, immigrants or the roma community. i agree that the social economy has a key role to play in achieving these goals. social enterprises have demonstrated their resilience to economic shocks and have been able to offer innovative solutions that promote social cohesion, social inclusion or job creation. social innovation and social entrepreneurship are key drivers for the development of the social economy and should be promoted through action in the areas of education and training, better funding, increased visibility and better legal environment.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of a report on the use of social entrepreneurship and social innovation to combat unemployment. the economic and financial crisis has increased poverty and social exclusion indicators, as well as long-term and youth unemployment and social inequalities. this has affected the most marginalised and disadvantaged groups in the labour market, such as the disabled, young people, older people, women, the long-term unemployed and disadvantaged people in the labour market. the commission is invited to ensure that action is taken at eu level to support all types of social and solidarity-based enterprises. parliament is sceptical that the eu is lagging behind the europe 2020 targets, particularly in relation to employment, innovation and the reduction of poverty and social exclusion, but welcomes the 30% increase in the pre-financing budget for the youth employment initiative, which will help to promote social entrepreneurship and innovation.
in writing. ‒ unemployment in the eu remains a major challenge: in december 2014, the unemployment rate in the eu stood at 9.9%. addressing this challenge requires ambitious economic policy and labour market reforms to promote smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and create more jobs in order to overcome the distortions in the eu labour market. i agree with the need for reforms to increase labour market and career flexibility, improve skills and job matching, including greater interaction between education systems and enterprises. it is necessary to ensure better integration of young people, women and older workers, as well as skilled migrants, into the labour market. investments must be used to actively support job creation and employment opportunities. particular attention should be paid to the importance of continuing education and training in creating a competitive eu labour market and in promoting growth and employment.
in writing. ‒ the i voted on a report on creating a competitive european union labour market for the 21st century and matching skills and qualifications to demand and job opportunities to recover from the crisis. the european economic and financial crisis and the resulting economic slowdown have left many member states with high unemployment (9.8% in the eu-28) and problems of public debt, weak economic growth and underinvestment. parliament is concerned that the youth unemployment rate in many member states (28 eu countries 20.9%) is much higher and that improvements and lower unemployment rates are rare. parliament believes that ambitious economic and social policy and labour market reforms are needed, as well as economically sustainable social protection systems, including qualifications for the unemployed, and job opportunities for people with no or very low qualifications. parliament proposes to strengthen the existing eu skills panorama to better identify skills gaps and deficiencies relating to specific sectors, professions and regions and to ensure that information on changing skills needs is collected, processed and disseminated to decision-makers and public authorities, education and training providers and employers, in order to better anticipate future trends.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as i believe that the commission should step up its efforts to effectively transport the eu law to its citizens and simultaneously increase its monitoring capacity in terms of the infringement of the eu law by the members states. this should especially be applied to the most problematic areas such as transport, health and consumers protection, protection of the environment, and internal market and services. it is necessary to provide citizens with full information in an accessible and transparent manner, so they are aware which laws are adopted and what national agencies are in charge of their implementation. i believe that, only by ensuring effective application of the eu law eu can meet its policy goals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to evaluate the 30th and 31st annual monitoring reports on the application of eu law. these reports indicate that the main areas in which member states were most affected by infringements of the transposition of eu law in 2012 were transport, health and consumer protection, environmental protection and internal market and services issues, while the areas in which the greatest problems were identified in 2013 were environment, health and consumer protection, internal market and services and transport. eu citizens have the right to be given the opportunity, in the first instance, to know in a clear, accessible, transparent and timely manner whether national legislation has been adopted in the transposition of eu law, what it is and which national authorities are responsible for its correct implementation. i support calls on the commission to take greater account of the burden that legislation may place on small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) when preparing and evaluating legislation. the commission and the member states need to coordinate their efforts more closely at an earlier stage of the legislative process in order to ensure a more effective implementation of the final result.
in writing. ‒ i voted on the parliament's report assessing the 30th and 31st annual reports on the monitoring of the application of eu law. parliament welcomes the 30th and 31st annual reports of the commission on the monitoring of the application of eu law and notes that these reports indicate that the main areas in which member states were most affected by infringement proceedings in 2012 were transport, health and consumer protection, environmental protection, internal market and services, and in 2013 - environment, health and consumer protection, internal market and services and transport. the commission must help member states to implement eu law properly, thereby further supporting the eu and confidence in its legitimacy.
the question asked when the blue card is raised. i would like to ask you a question. countries are being asked to reach a certain level of renewable energy by 2020, and already today, a number of countries have reached that level and have settled down and are not doing anything else. how do you think the new tasks should be given now, rather than waiting until 2020?
in writing. i would like to congratulate the commission on the launch of a new energy package. this is an important step towards the implementation of the european energy union. i would like to draw particular attention to the commission communication on consultations on the new energy market model. i fully agree that it is necessary to restructure and organise the european energy system in such a way that we can effectively implement the transition to sustainable and consumer-oriented energy. the commission document reflects well the new challenges and areas for change, but misses the links and synergies with the digital single market strategy for europe. in the electricity system and markets, information and communication technologies play an increasingly important role both in energy generation and transmission networks and in households using smart meters. i therefore invite the commission to focus more on the measures and actions needed to ensure the security of energy systems, and to assess, prevent and combat cyber threats.
on the one hand, i'm glad we're finally calling today's situation in agriculture a crisis. this was clearly demonstrated by the farmers who protested in brussels last week. the deepest crisis in lithuania has been the dairy sector and pig farming due to the plague. i am grateful to the european union institutions for their understanding. unfortunately, the aid granted covers more than one third of the loss suffered. i would like to ask the commission, the council and everyone here, are we sure that this is the way europe wants to go? do we need any more milk? because water is already more expensive than milk. i think that it is time to stop talking and to act and to introduce market regulation mechanisms, to establish a system of fair settlement between market participants, especially in the milk sector. we must support cooperation more, otherwise the european union's taxpayer investments, past, present and future, are meaningless.
in writing.– the russian embargo and the crisis in china have considerably undermined the european export market and negatively affected the european producers of such products as beef, pork and milk. we need to find a solution to help farmers who are on the edge on bankruptcy; this entails not only creating new effective risk management instruments for farmers but also looking for new markets to meet the supply.
in writing. the global milk market is becoming increasingly volatile. livestock and dairy resources are highly vulnerable and buy-back prices are therefore lower than production costs. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the dairy industry in the period from 1 january 2015 to 31 december 2016. the actions called for fair prices for agricultural production, with particular attention to the dairy, fruit and vegetable and meat sectors. the agricultural sector has been the most affected by the political events, but the dairy sector also suffers from a surplus of production which leads to falling prices. the european commission is proposing a package of support to help farmers deal with the disadvantage. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. it is very important to maintain the stimulation of demand and the reduction of supply. to this end, it is proposed to extend the current private storage scheme and the period of public intervention. strengthening supply chains is also encouraged. it is proposed to set up a high-level expert working group on credit to farmers and financial risk mitigation mechanisms. the commission recognises the need to strengthen the links between agriculture and society at large. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase of equipment and services for the construction of buildings, including the purchase of equipment and services for the construction of buildings, the purchase of equipment and services for the construction of buildings, the purchase of equipment and services for the construction of buildings, the purchase of equipment and services for the construction of buildings, the purchase of equipment and services for the construction of buildings, the purchase of equipment and services for the construction of buildings, the purchase of equipment and services for the construction of buildings, and the purchase of equipment and services for the construction of buildings.
the rights of europe's indigenous ethnic minorities should not be forgotten when new problems arise with immigrants. and that is precisely the situation of the polish ethnic minority in lithuania, which has been living in these lands for 700 years. unfortunately, the rights of the native poles and other minorities are constantly being restricted. five years ago, the national minorities law was repealed, and today, the rights of minority schools are being restricted by closing them. in defense of their rights, parents and students organized a general strike on september 2, in which 90 percent of polish schools participated. unfortunately, instead of dialogue, the government threatened the strikers with fines of 500 euros. the use of communist methods and intimidation of protesters is not allowed in the european union. i call on the european parliament to protect the pupils and parents of national minority schools in my country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. i think it gives a credible political signal that the major pro-european political groups in the european parliament managed to reach a common decision and paved the path for the commission’s work for the year to come based on close cooperation and detailed guidelines. bearing in mind the ongoing eurozone crisis and the escalating refugee crisis, i fully support the ep resolution’s call for action in such policy areas as migration and asylum – including the stepping up of border controls and a more effective asylum system, an ambitious strategy for smart growth, and finalisation of the european economic and monetary union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which sets out parliament's recommendations for the commission's activities in 2016. i agree with the main recommendations that the commission should ensure the creation of a single market and, at the same time, a strategic action plan for economic union, political union and external action.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which sets out parliament's requirements for the commission's 2016 work programme. high unemployment, inequality, poverty and low social standards remain the main problems facing eu citizens. the eu is also focused on restoring the confidence of its citizens, and parliament calls on the commission to use all its powers to promote european integration and to set the agenda to ensure that europe strengthens its economic recovery in a fairer and more inclusive single market, creates more quality jobs and reduces social inequalities. the commission is invited to ensure that education and training remain its top priorities, with a strong focus on access to, equality, modernisation and promotion of quality education and training systems in the eu, in particular with regard to the most pressing issues such as the promotion of skills for the current and future labour market, the promotion of vocational education and training and dual training, support for quality vocational training and traineeships, the erasmus+ programme, lifelong learning and media literacy.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour on the resolution on preparation of the commission work programme 2016. since the eu has endured a lengthy economic crisis which resulted in low growth, increased internal imbalances and a lack of job creation and investment, it is an urgent matter to continue further european integration in the internal market and in the context of economic and monetary union. to be more precise, in my opinion it is essential to fully and effectively apply existing legislation in the single market and other areas such as environmental law and cohesion policy. i truly support the notions of boosting employment, economic growth and investment. nonetheless, the digital single market must remain on the top of the agenda, thus we must introduce proper mechanisms to trigger investments on the ground. in that way, opportunities would be generated for the digital activities which could increase job places, enhance innovation and productivity. therefore, based on these grounds i have voted for this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the the commission's announcement of 10 strategic priorities for its work is welcome, but it is essential to ensure that the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are always respected in the implementation of its priorities. in order to achieve the single market, the commission should make full use of its right of initiative. a strategic action plan should be drawn up for economic union, political union and external action. particular attention should be paid to the shift of the tax burden from labour to other sustainable forms of taxation. given the current situation in some member states, i believe that discussions should be opened on the establishment of a programme of support for those countries which would express a wish to negotiate their withdrawal from the euro area because their membership has become unstable and intolerable. i think that more attention should be paid to social problems. better coordination of social policies in the member states should be ensured and the social partners should be involved at european and national levels. the commission's european agenda on migration, which raises many questions and should be reviewed as soon as possible, is to be highlighted. i believe that the european union's migration policy requires a new approach to the problems of immigration and refugees in the light of new circumstances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to tackle the refugee crisis in the eu more quickly and effectively. i support the decision to relocate 120 000 persons seeking international protection in the union over the next two years. it is necessary to deploy frontex border emergency teams at sensitive eu border points and to set up refugee reception centres. the eu must act with unity to stop conflicts in war zones in order to achieve lasting peace and stability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission proposal for a council decision establishing provisional measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy, greece and hungary. parliament welcomes the council's decision to redistribute refugees according to a scheme set up by the commission, taking into account national indicators such as gdp, population, unemployment, previous asylum seekers and the number of refugees relocated. the geographical situation and the conflicts in the closest neighbouring countries in the region continue to make these countries more vulnerable than other member states in the near future, as migration flows continue to flow into their territories.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report on the council decision establishing provisional measures of international protection for the benefit of italy, greece and hungary. fundamentally, the eu’s member states need to work together to deal with refugees arriving in europe. solidarity and shared responsibility is crucial during this uneasy time. these provisional measures are only the first steps and permanent measures are needed. this crisis will not go away unless a fair migrant distribution system is implemented within the eu. it is important that asylum seekers should be given information about the country they will be relocated to, and their preferences taken into account; also their consent would be required.
in writing. ‒ the such a council decision cannot be accepted. in particular, the issue of reception and integration of refugees should be addressed not only at eu level but also at global level. this is a problem that all the nations of the world must face. the upcoming wave of migration needs to be addressed by applying all political levers. the first is to stop the trafficking of illegal migrants into europe and to work much more closely with african governments. member states shall ensure that the competent authorities of the member states concerned are able to provide the necessary information to the competent authorities of the member states concerned in order to facilitate the transfer of persons. such regulation is flawed and incompatible with the sovereign rights of the member states. in this context, i believe that an exception should be made which would allow states to opt out, in whole or in part, of the relocation of applicants from a member state.
can €1 billion in emergency aid solve the refugee crisis in europe? i don't think he did. so far, europeans see no concrete action to address the causes of the migration of africans to europe. the result of attempts to overcome the consequences of the anti-democratic policy of dividing refugees by quotas, which limits the sovereignty of states. the european union's external borders are closed, and countries that try to close their internal borders are almost seen as enemies of europe. the imposition of a will on states that do not agree with the quota policy is a direct interference with their sovereignty and independence. the influx of refugees into europe is the seeds of a future crisis. we can and should protect ourselves from it, provided we have the determination and the principle to do so. europe owes nothing to anyone, it is open to visitors, but to those who come through the front door, not through the window. the community is waiting for us to start protecting those homes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to ratify the wto protocol. the ilo convention sets out basic international labour standards, prohibits forced labour and criminalises such activities. the proposed protocol aims to address shortcomings in the implementation of the convention and to combat trafficking in human beings for the purpose of exploitation for labour more effectively, as well as to better protect and compensate victims of forced labour. the protocol also provides that effective measures are to be taken to identify victims of forced labour, to ensure their release, protection, rest and rehabilitation, and to provide other assistance and support. furthermore, member states of the octs must ensure that all victims have access to remedies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation, which supports the proposal that the council authorise member states, in order to safeguard the interests of the european union, to ratify the provisions of the protocol falling within the competence of the eu and recommend that they do so by the end of 2016. the 2014 protocol addresses fundamental rights, trafficking in human beings the crime that affects not only individuals but also entire societies and economies and combating trafficking in human beings. the ratification of this protocol is an important step in the fight against trafficking in human beings and in ensuring the rights of victims of crime throughout europe. the convention on forced or compulsory labour entered into force almost a century ago, but sadly, millions of people worldwide still suffer from forced labour. the protocol of the international labour organisation (ilo) requires member states to develop, in consultation with employers' and workers' organisations, national policies and action plans to eliminate forced labour effectively and sustainably. the protocol also sets out measures to be taken by the member states of the octs to prevent forced labour: by educating and informing people to ensure that legislation on the prevention of forced labour applies to all workers in all sectors of the economy, by protecting people from possible abuses and fraud in recruitment and employment, and by addressing the risk factors for the growth of forced labour.
in writing. i give my consent to the conclusion of this agreement. millions of people worldwide suffer from the crimes of forced labor and human trafficking. this is a serious problem which cannot be postponed. a proper mechanism for its prevention and criminalisation should be established. in view of this, it is essential that all states ratify the provisions of the protocol. more active action is needed to combat trafficking in human beings. in the fight against trafficking in human beings, particular attention should be paid to the identification of victims, the promotion of private sector accountability and more effective prosecution. the rights of victims of crime must be adequately and fully guaranteed throughout europe. the principle that no one shall be held in slavery or servitude (slavery and the slave trade in all their forms shall be prohibited) must be implemented without any reservations.
the ratification of the protocol by the member states will facilitate the fight against trafficking in human beings, and i therefore welcome the draft council decision and propose that parliament give its consent, and i call on the member states to ratify the protocol without delay.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to encourage member states to apply control measures and criminal sanctions to certain psychotropic substances, as provided for under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances. studies have shown that the use of 4-methylamphetamine can cause acute health problems and adverse effects, and these have been reported. in 2012-2012, 21 deaths were reported in four member states, with posthumous samples detecting 4-methylamphetamine. i agree that control measures are necessary for this substance because it is a danger to human health.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which gives parliament its support for the council's proposal on the application of control measures to the psychoactive substance 4-methylamphetamine. the european parliament and the council have agreed to exchange information on new psychoactive substances, their risk assessments and to provide for control measures, in accordance with the 2005 joint decision. the development of psychoactive substances poses a particular risk to human health and the environment and requires urgent action by the member states. the joint decision on the exchange of information on new psychoactive substances, their risk assessment and control shall focus on information on suspected adverse reactions to be transmitted under the established pharmacovigilance system. this decision also provides for the risk assessment of these new psychoactive substances with a view to allowing the control measures applicable in the member states to be extended to new psychoactive substances.
in writing. i support the council's draft proposal to ban the amphetamine-like drug found in caffeine. in view of the health risks and other side effects of this substance, uniform control measures are necessary throughout europe. it should be noted that these control measures will help to prevent the spread of the drug. tougher criminal sanctions will help to disrupt the illicit market for amphetamine where it is sold. it should be noted that this substance can become an alternative to amphetamine and cause very painful effects. in order to avoid particularly painful consequences, i support the proposal to ban this synthetic substance 4-ma in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to encourage member states to apply control measures and criminal sanctions to certain psychotropic substances, as provided for under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which gives parliament its support for the council's proposal on the application of control measures to the psychoactive substance 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole. the european parliament and the council have agreed to exchange information on new psychoactive substances, their risk assessments and to provide for control measures, in accordance with the 2005 joint decision. the development of psychoactive substances poses a particular risk to human health and the environment and requires urgent action by the member states. the joint decision on the exchange of information on new psychoactive substances, their risk assessment and control shall focus on information on suspected adverse reactions to be transmitted under the established pharmacovigilance system. this decision also provides for the risk assessment of these new psychoactive substances with a view to allowing the control measures applicable in the member states to be extended to new psychoactive substances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to encourage member states to apply control measures and criminal sanctions to certain psychotropic substances, as provided for under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament gives its consent to the council's draft for the application of control measures to the psychoactive substances 4-iodine-2,5-dimethoxy-n-{2-methoxybenzyl) phenethylamine (25i-nbome), 3,4-dichlor-n-{1-{dimethoxylamine) cyclohexyl]methyl]benzamide (ah-7921), 3,4-methylenedioxypyrovalerone (mdpv) and 2-{3-methoxyphenyl) 2-{2-methylamine) cyclohexanone (methoxetamine). the european parliament and the council have agreed to exchange information on new psychoactive substances, their risk assessments and to provide for control measures, in accordance with the 2005 joint decision. the development of psychoactive substances poses a particular risk to human health and the environment and requires urgent action by the member states. the joint decision on the exchange of information on new psychoactive substances, their risk assessment and control shall focus on information on suspected adverse reactions to be transmitted under the established pharmacovigilance system. this decision also provides for the risk assessment of these new psychoactive substances with a view to allowing the control measures applicable in the member states to be extended to new psychoactive substances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to encourage member states to apply control measures and criminal sanctions to certain psychotropic substances, as provided for under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which gives parliament its consent to the council's draft decision on the application of control measures to 4-methyl-5- ((4-methylphenyl) -4,5-dihydroxazol-2-amine (4,4-dmar) and 1-cyclohexyl-4- ((1,2-diphenylethyl) piperazine (mt-45) for the implementation of the council decision on the application of control measures to psychoactive substances. the european parliament calls on the council to consult parliament again if it intends to make substantial changes to the text approved by parliament. the european parliament and the council have agreed to exchange information on new psychoactive substances, their risk assessments and to provide for control measures, in accordance with the 2005 joint decision. the development of psychoactive substances poses a particular risk to human health and the environment and requires urgent action by the member states. the joint decision on the exchange of information on new psychoactive substances, their risk assessment and control shall focus on information on suspected adverse reactions to be transmitted under the established pharmacovigilance system. this decision also provides for the risk assessment of these new psychoactive substances with a view to allowing the control measures applicable in the member states to be extended to new psychoactive substances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which calls on the commission to mobilise the essf funds (eur 16 274 765) to provide financial assistance in connection with the disaster in bulgaria (severe winter conditions resulting in a disaster classified as 'major natural disaster' under the essf) and two disasters in greece (floods in the euro-region and in central greece, classified as 'regional disaster' under the essf) that occurred in early 2015.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament supports the commission's proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (esf) and to provide financial assistance to bulgaria following the severe winter weather conditions that led to the disaster, which is classified as a 'major natural disaster' under the esf. parliament also endorsed the proposal to grant financial assistance to greece following two disasters in the euro-region and central greece, which are classified as 'regional disasters' under the essf. in late january and early february 2015, a large part of bulgaria was affected by heavy rainfall, snow, floods and landslides, with the south-eastern regions of the country suffering the most damage. these events have caused significant damage to public infrastructure. in early february 2015, floods in eastern macedonia and thrace caused significant damage to key infrastructure, public buildings, private homes, businesses and greek agriculture, destroying agricultural infrastructure, warehouses and crops. water and sanitation infrastructure in 17 settlements has been damaged. at the same time, large areas of central and western greece were affected by other floods, which caused even greater damage, resulting in the interruption of electricity supply, the isolation of several mountain settlements and the destruction of some greek cultural heritage sites.
in writing. i accept the proposal submitted. it should be noted that bulgaria suffered from severe winter conditions and greece from floods. both sides suffered extensive losses. the nature and scale of the disasters have caused significant damage not only to public infrastructure but also to local communities, the country's economy and private property, businesses, agricultural land and mosses. eu financial support is therefore essential to help alleviate the consequences of natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to extend the protection of geographical indications to non-agricultural products. a geographical indication indicates that the reputation, quality or other characteristic of a good is linked to a specific location. it is currently used exclusively for agricultural products and is used by some 3 000 agricultural products. i agree that it is necessary to exploit the economic potential of protecting the exclusivity and quality of non-agricultural products, to preserve the know-how and jobs associated with them and to contribute to the fight against counterfeiting. i therefore support the relevant eu rules proposed to this end.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament considers that a safeguard measure at european union level should be created as part of a wider ambitious strategy to support high quality eu products and based on a stronger commitment by the eu institutions to consider the manufacturing and craft sectors as a driving force for economic growth and the completion of the single market, thereby increasing the value of local industrial and craft products, supporting the development of the local economy and job creation in the areas concerned, promoting tourism and enhancing consumer confidence. the european parliament welcomes the commission's initiative to organise a consultation of stakeholders to determine the possibility of extending the protection of a geographical indication of the european union to non-agricultural products, welcomes the results of the consultation concluded in october 2014 and expressly supports the eu system of protection based on geographical indications for non-agricultural products.
in writing. – the extension of unitary geographical indication (gi) protection to non-agricultural products at eu level is another step towards an even more unified single market. i voted in favour of this report as a gi protection system would be beneficial in economic, social and cultural terms. the commission estimates that there are around 4 million jobs directly and indirectly employed in these sectors and that two-thirds of the regions producing non-agricultural geographical indication products have a poverty rate or an unemployment rate above 20 percent. as the local products that may be subject to such protection are usually based on the activities of small and medium enterprises (smes), the extension of gis would enhance the competitiveness of smes in particular and would stimulate the grow of local industries. what is more, such local industries are very important sources of established yet vibrant cultural and social heritage, which further highlights the authenticity of european products and thus makes them even more attractive and competitive.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to better protect traditional products and knowledge. in particular, a common protection of geographical indications at eu level is necessary. geographical indications would help consumers to identify authentic products and ensure that those products meet the standards of origin and quality. the protection of geographical indications in the european union would enable consumers to identify authentic, original products. this would be an effective tool in the eu single market to help prevent abuse. it should be noted that at present there is insufficient protection for such products and their economic potential is not being exploited. it should be noted that the protection of a geographical indication for non-agricultural products would contribute to european economic growth and job creation.
in writing. ‒ the the current geographical protection of agricultural product names offers the opportunity to preserve the culture and culinary heritage of a country that has developed over the centuries. but as we know, heritage is not just food. it is also a variety of handicrafts. in lithuania, there is no evidence of abuses of geographical indications outside agriculture, although there are some unique products in my country, such as musical instruments, that have clear geographical indications. however, if such abuse is at least theoretically possible, it is necessary to prepare for it in advance. it would be a pity if, for example, the well-known bag of pipes in our country, the 'labanoro pipe', which has a clear geographical reference to the area from which this musical instrument originates, were to be produced by anyone other than the original samples. this would damage the name and authenticity of the work. i believe that there should be no distinction between agricultural and non-agricultural products in the protection of geographical indications. this will not be easy to regulate, but it will serve to protect the cultural identity of each eu country, which is becoming increasingly important in an increasingly globalised world.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support this proposal and voted in favour of it because the situation in greece requires our adequate attention and quick decisions. we must continue showing the european solidarity by creation of favourable conditions for the best and full use of eu funds and by encouraging greece to implement necessary reforms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for special measures for greece. greece faces a lack of liquidity and a shortage of public funds that could be allocated to public investments necessary to promote a sustainable recovery. the commission has proposed to amend the common provisions regulation to provide for additional pre-financing for the 2014-2020 cohesion policy action programmes under the investment for growth and jobs goal and for programmes financed in greece by the european maritime and fisheries fund. i agree that the support must be urgent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament draws attention to the need to provide assistance to greece. it was therefore decided to apply the simplified procedure without amendments to this regulation. this procedure should contribute to the joint efforts to assist greece and facilitate the entry into force of this regulation as soon as possible. the impact of the financial crisis on greece was exceptional. the country faces a lack of liquidity and a lack of public funds that could be allocated to public investments necessary to promote a sustainable recovery. this has created an emergency situation which requires specific measures. it is important that the lack of liquidity and public funds in greece do not constitute a barrier to investment under programmes supported by the european regional development fund, the european social fund (esf) and the cohesion fund, and the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff).
in writing. the financial crisis and the eu's austerity measures have been an unbearable burden for some countries and have had a very negative impact. greece is one of the countries that has been hit particularly hard by the crisis. appropriate aid measures are needed to help the country stabilise its situation. however, it is necessary to ensure that such special measures are temporary and exceptional. it is also essential that other member states should be able to benefit from these measures, but only in certain strictly regulated cases, in the event of an emergency situation requiring specific measures. particular attention should be paid to the conditions for investment and take-up of support from eu funds. it is therefore appropriate to increase the level of initial pre-financing for cohesion policy programmes and programmes supported by the emff. another important aspect is to increase the maximum co-financing rates to 100%. it should be noted that the objectives of convergence and regional competitiveness and employment must be the main factors in the implementation of the specific measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to mobilise the egf for germany in order to support the reintegration of workers made redundant by adam opel ag. i approve the mobilisation of eur 6 958 623 for the reintegration of 2 692 workers made redundant.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament supports the commission's proposal to grant financial assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to the german company adam opel ag following the dismissal of 2 881 workers. the german authorities explain the reasons for the complete closure of the adam opel ag plant in bochum. it links this cessation of activity to the global financial and economic crisis, explaining that the number of new car registrations in the eu member states and efta countries fell by 25% between 2007 and 2013 and that manufacturers of small and medium-sized vehicles belonging to the mid-price segment were particularly affected. the tailor-made services to be provided to redundant workers consist of the following: vocational training measures (qualifizierungen), vocational guidance (berufsorientierung), groups and workshops for similarly qualified workers, consultation on business start-up (existenzgründerberatung), job search (stellenakquise), job fairs (jobmessen), further training and counselling (nachbetreuung und - beratung), training allowance (transferkurzarbeitergeld).
in writing. i agree that the funds from the globalisation adjustment fund should be mobilised for this german company. this eu support is crucial in the eu's economic and social recovery. the aid will help stabilise the situation in the motor vehicle, trailer and semi-trailer manufacturing sector in the arnsberg region of germany and will contribute to the promotion of employment. in particular, 2 881 workers will be given easier access to the labour market. active labour market measures will help redundant workers find another job or start their own business, reduce the negative effects of unemployment and help those who are poor.
in writing. western european car sales have fallen dramatically to their lowest level in 20 years. it is concluded that these events are directly linked to the global financial and economic crisis as referred to in regulation (ec) no 546/2009 of the european parliament and of the council (6). i would also point out that the manufacturers of small and medium-sized vehicles in the mid-priced segment were particularly affected and that the crisis therefore had a particularly significant impact on adam opel ag, one of the most important players in the mid-priced market for small and medium-sized cars.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to mobilise the egf for the belgian needs to support the reintegration of workers made redundant by ford genk into the labour market. i support the mobilisation of eur 6 268 564 for the reintegration of 4 500 workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament supports the commission's proposal to grant financial assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to the ford genk plant in belgium, following the redundancies of 5 111 workers in 11 suppliers or downstream companies. the belgian authorities argue that the increase in redundancies at the ford genk plant was due to the closure of the final ford plant in genk. it links this cessation of activity to the major structural changes in world trade trends due to globalisation and recalls that the european automotive industry has lost a significant market share over the last decade. the tailored services to be provided to redundant workers comprise three measures: (i) individual job-search assistance, case management and general information services, (ii) training and retraining, and (iii) benefits and incentives.
in writing. the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund is essential for this german company. it should be noted that the ford genk plant was the largest employer in the province of limburg and that the redundancies had therefore caused a significant damage to the limburg economy. in order to help people who have been particularly hard hit by unemployment, effective tools need to be provided to help them find new employment as quickly as possible. such assistance may include job search, vocational guidance, vocational training and retraining tailored to specific needs, as well as special temporary measures. the support provided is an expression of solidarity across the eu and it is therefore essential to ensure that it is properly absorbed. in order to prevent negative spill-over effects in the region, it is necessary to help redundant workers to find new jobs and re-integrate into the labour market as quickly as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to mobilise the egf for italian needs in order to support the reintegration of workers made redundant by the alitalia group. i support the mobilisation of eur 1 414 848 to reintegrate 184 workers made redundant into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament supports the commission's proposal to grant financial assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following the dismissal of 1 249 workers from the alitalia group. the commission granted the italian airline's application for the workers to receive the support they needed to reintegrate into the labour market. the italian authorities argue that the reason for the redundancies in the alitalia group is the decrease in the number of passengers carried between 2014 and 2010: a decrease of 3,6% compared to 2013 and 6,4% compared to 2012, and the accumulation of losses following the full privatisation of alitalia in 2009. the tailored services to be provided to redundant workers comprise five types of measures: (i) absorption and skills assessment, (ii) support for active job search, (iii) training, (iv) compensation for mobility costs and (v) recruitment allowances for those over 50.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal on the role of local authorities in development cooperation in developing countries. local authorities play a key role in the definition, design and implementation of development goals and serve as a link between community, national and global goals. i agree that there is a need to ensure a fairer transfer of resources from the national level to the regions, cities and municipalities.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because local authorities play a key role in developing countries in the protection of vulnerable groups in crisis-hit fragile and middle-income countries. the new global development agenda will allow for the broad involvement of civil society organisations, local authorities and national parliaments. it is therefore important to empower local authorities and civil society organisations to ensure fair, transparent and accountable governance. the european parliament calls on the eu to continue to pay particular attention to local authorities in the planning, implementation and provision of financial assistance for development. it is also important to ensure that local authorities are better represented in the international negotiations on the adoption of the post-2015 development agenda at the international conference on financing for development and the 21st united nations climate change conference (cop 21).
in writing. – i welcome the adoption of this proposal as first and foremost, the local level is the birth place of democracy which is the prerequisite for genuine growth. local authorities have to be empowered through financial, technological and human resources fairly allocated between the central and the local governance levels as it is the local authorities that can help the most to ensure proper implementation for the goals of sustainable development. decentralisation and good governance at a local level is crucial for ensuring support for indigenous people, meaning better use of natural resources, better understanding of the needs of inhabitants, fighting poverty, and providing security, educational and social guarantees. support for local authorities also promotes a bottom-up policy approach and safeguards the communities from one-size-fits-all approaches.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. in particular, local authorities play a crucial role in the development cooperation process by integrating the three main dimensions of development: social, economic and environmental, and by promoting development at both local and national levels. in order to ensure their effective involvement in development cooperation activities, local authorities should be provided with adequate funding and other support measures. the involvement of the private and public sectors in development cooperation activities needs to be strengthened. more attention should be paid to partnership agreements between local authorities in eu member states and local authorities in developing countries. more room for manoeuvre is needed for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in creating jobs and promoting sustainable and inclusive economic growth,
in writing. ‒ local government the level of government closest to each resident. it is on the successful operation of this level, the provision of daily services, that citizens' confidence in their state depends to a large extent. the importance of cooperation with local and regional authorities has been particularly high in recent years, as a large proportion of eu development cooperation initiatives implemented with partner governments have not achieved their objectives. i agree with the aims of the document in question. the eu is actively seeking to expand the area of good governance in the world. a precondition for this is the strengthening of the administrative and expertise capacities of local authorities in the partner countries, support for the implementation of small projects that are of vital importance to local communities. i would also like to point out that this document could have been stronger. it is not enough for the local and regional authorities of the partner countries to be identified as 'important partners'. european support for projects implemented by municipalities and regions, capacity building of local administrations, promotion of the capacity of municipalities to work together with local community organisations had to be clearly identified as unconditional priorities and used as a basis for shaping the future european development cooperation policy. knowing that effective local and regional government is a prerequisite for a successful state, the document could also have focused more on the eu's objective in its development cooperation policy to encourage partner states to grant greater financial and administrative autonomy to their local and regional governments.
in writing. the volkswagen scandal cannot be seen as merely an unethical and unfair behaviour of the group towards consumers. this is a blow to confidence in the european union's system and its ability to ensure effective control. the message to eu citizens is that the eu's rhetoric about consumer rights and welfare cannot be trusted, nor can the priorities it puts on environment and climate change. the scandal has further damaged the eu's reputation in world politics, especially when it comes to the eu's position on climate change. the world's most important climate change conference in paris is approaching, but how can the eu demand that other countries commit to binding co2 reduction targets if it has failed to control its own producers? the commission must investigate this case thoroughly in order to avoid similar instances of unfair treatment in the future.
in writing. i welcome the revision of this regulation, as it is primarily for the benefit of consumers the new rules will make it easier and cheaper to recover small debts in other eu countries, except denmark. the european small claims procedure will enable individuals and businesses to recover debts incurred in other eu countries using standard forms. this procedure will cover claims up to eur 5 000, without the need to hire lawyers to recover the amounts, and the nominal fee for this procedure will be reduced to that applicable to domestic debt recovery and will be payable not only in cash but also by bank transfer or bank card. this regulation obliges eu states to provide free assistance in filling in the dispute forms and choosing the competent court. member states are also encouraged to use video or audio conferencing for the settlement of disputes, in order to avoid the need for the parties to proceed to another country, which also contributes significantly to reducing the costs of debt recovery. this procedure has been in place since 2009 and the study revealed that since then the costs of litigation in cross-border cases have fallen by up to 40% and the duration of litigation has been reduced from two and a half years to five months. the improvements adopted by the european parliament this session will deliver even better results for our citizens, consumers and small and medium-sized businesses.
i agree with this report, which sets strict obligations to reduce emissions of air pollution, particularly particulate matter. i think it's fair to leave the biomass boiler exemptions for 30 years. as you know, countries like lithuania, for obvious geopolitical reasons, are moving very quickly towards renewable heat supply. many municipalities have installed relatively new boilers which will not meet the emission limit values after the adoption of the directive. i call on the commission to make it possible for companies producing energy from renewable sources to meet the new requirements, alongside the obligation. if this were to be done at our own expense, it would not be fair and would not be an incentive for the development of biomass in energy, which not only reduces climate change but also creates jobs and taxes and forms energy independence.
in writing. mr president, the report by mr grzyb on the limitation of certain emissions into the air in the european union has opened up a very important topic for countries like lithuania, where air quality is still quite good. as a result, the country may still be a tourist attraction and a place to prepare so-called healthy food. the rapporteur is well aware that air pollution is a cross-border problem, which is coming to many member states from neighbouring countries. this is why limiting emissions is so important for the countries of north-eastern europe, the green lungs of the continent. as the european commission's data show, we have a serious gap in environmental legislation today. this calls for action by the european union towards a unified approach to harmful pollutants. the notification of the directive is important for several reasons. in particular, the legislation introduced will reduce the healthcare costs associated with air pollution-related diseases in the future. secondly, the legal provisions will have a significant impact on environmental protection, which will be particularly important for agriculture, as it is expected to reduce crop losses. thirdly, the legislation introduced will help to maintain the attractiveness of tourism and nature in countries like mine, i.e. lithuania, and, importantly, will allow these countries to develop in the future in a very important economic area, i.e. organic farming, which is an alternative to large-scale agricultural production.
for the verts/ale group i agree and particularly welcome the compliance of the project under consideration with the principles of good governance. it clearly identifies the legal hierarchy and brings the casein market into line with the food code. i very much appreciate the rapporteur's efforts to ensure that consumers are properly informed about food. although the document in question is intended for products not intended for sale to the final consumer, it is necessary to ensure that information on ingredients and in particular on allergens is clearly traceable throughout the food chain. i would also like to point out to my colleagues that casein is a very small element in the milk market. while the adoption of this directive will lead to better management of the milk market, it will not solve the structural problems currently plaguing it. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to remind and reiterate my call on the commission to seek, together with the member states and milk producer organisations, long-term, balanced solutions to the milk crisis.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, speaking on behalf of alde, i should begin by expressing our deepest condolences to the families of the victims in kunduz. clearly, by choosing a hospital as a target, a fatal mistake was made. however, the reasons for this tragedy still remain unclear. i therefore welcome the decision by nato and the afghan authorities to launch immediately a thorough and impartial investigation of this tragic event. what happened in kunduz is a terrible accident, but we cannot view it as an isolated accident. by conquering kunduz, the taliban has made the biggest military advance in 14 years. the taliban’s personnel strength has increased dramatically: by more than six times in the last seven or eight years. the conscripts are mostly from arab countries and post-soviet central asia, as far as one can read from the reports. all this is very alarming. the taliban must be defeated to give afghanistan a new start. the consequences of our inaction might be unthinkable. i strongly believe that we cannot disregard the overall and unprecedented support which has already been invested in afghanistan’s security and development. it should be clear from the outset that we cannot repeat the mistakes of iraq and syria, where our actions were inadequate. currently, our efforts in afghanistan seem far too weak. it is fundamental to retain the progress made in afghanistan based on our coordinated strategy, both military and developmental, among the international, regional and local players. our effective action and determination create the future for afghanistan. meanwhile, inaction and confusion bring back the past, which i am convinced the people of afghanistan are not looking for.
in writing.– the situation in syria is an escalating multidimensional political and humanitarian catastrophe. the brutality of the syrian conflict has extremely serious repercussions in the country and the region, resulting in the accumulation of the migrant crisis in europe. the international community needs to work together to find a common strategy – this is the only way stability and peace in syria can be restored. in addition, the recent russian military intervention in syria gives rise to grave concern – it is apparent that the bombings move away from the goal of targeting isis and terrorist groups. there cannot be any peaceful solution with the brutal, corrupt and incompetent assad regime in power, who initially has been the driving force of the atrocities in the country.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed the calendar of the 2017 monthly sessions of parliament.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. in recent years, tunisia's economic situation has deteriorated significantly both domestically and internationally, in particular in terms of trade with europe, which remains tunisia's most important partner. i agree that the tunisian issue is of great importance and that the eu should make concrete economic and investment commitments to support the country's fragile transition to democracy. i support the suggestions made that the eu should cooperate more in the fields of university education, general education, training and youth through programmes such as erasmus+. tunisia should also be given the possibility to join the missions and activities of the common security and defence policy (csdp).
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this recommendation for a council decision on the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of tunisia, of the other part. tunisia is a country in the middle east and north africa (mena) region that is moving towards democracy and changing its political system. the success of tunisia's transition to democracy depends on its future economic and social development. tunisia has a high long-term growth potential. the implementation of the expected reforms, combined with the assets available, such as tunisia's human resources, and an open economy will unlock this potential and provide a more sustainable and inclusive boost to the country's economy. in recent years, tunisia's economic situation has deteriorated significantly both domestically and internationally, in particular in terms of trade with europe, which remains tunisia's most important partner. in this context, it is vital that tunisia is made a priority for the eu and that the eu makes concrete economic and investment commitments to support the country's fragile transition to democracy, bearing in mind that the success of the tunisian experiment is in the interest of the entire region and the eu. tunisia's participation in eu programmes should therefore be considered in this context. the eu should also increase cooperation in the fields of university education, general education, training and youth, through programmes such as erasmus+ and others that aim to develop people-to-people contacts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at simplifying debt recovery in the eu. the european small claims procedure, which has been in operation since 2009, allows people and businesses to use standard forms to settle debts accumulated in other eu countries, for example, due to unpaid bills for services provided. the procedure does not require the use of a lawyer and the judgment is recognised and enforced in another eu country. the renewed european rules on small claims facilitate the recovery of debts from companies or individuals operating in another eu country. the debt ceiling for this procedure is raised from eur 2 000 to eur 5 000, the stamp duty is reduced and the use of videoconferencing for the settlement of disputes is encouraged. the use of european small claims has led to a 40% reduction in the costs of litigation in similar cases and a fivefold reduction in the length of proceedings.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which examines and amends regulation (ec) no 861/2007 of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european small claims procedure. this regulation aims to simplify and speed up the examination of cases of an international nature relating to small claims and to reduce costs. it was designed specifically to help consumers as well as small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) to bring their claims and thus ensure their access to justice. the rapporteur fully supports this objective. five years after the regulation entered into force, a comprehensive assessment has been carried out which has shown that the european small claims procedure is a useful tool. however, as highlighted in the commission's november 2013 report on the application of that procedure, there is still a great potential to extend and strengthen its uptake. the european small claims procedure has reduced the costs of litigation in cross-border small claims cases by up to 40% and the duration of litigation has been reduced from two years and five months to an average of five months.
in writing. i agree with the report. i believe that there should be uniform procedures across the eu to help simplify and speed up crossborder litigation in the eu, while also facilitating the protection of consumers' rights. every citizen must be able to exercise his right to go to court and to seek prompt compensation without incurring high costs. i support the proposal to increase the maximum amount from the current eur 2 000 to eur 10 000. it is also appropriate to include cases where both parties are domiciled or established in the same member state but which have a different cross-border element. the time, effort and expense involved must not be significantly disproportionate to the size of the claim. it is therefore necessary to simplify and speed up the resolution of such disputes, as well as to reduce the costs for individuals or small enterprises and to reduce the duration of the procedure. the use of the european small claims procedure should be encouraged.
in writing. – the proposal will have a positive impact on citizens undertaking cross-border businesses and is particularly designed to support smes by facilitating the litigation procedure and by reducing costs and administrative burdens, with the objective of boosting cross-border business activities eu-wide.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to limit certain emissions into the air. the proposal contains provisions for medium-sized combustion plants. it aims to contribute to the reduction of nox, so2 and dust emissions by setting limit values for new and existing installations and by introducing a simple registration system to facilitate the implementation of a large part of the member states' emission reduction commitments.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the commission's proposal for a directive on the limitation of certain emissions of pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants. this proposal is part of the european union's action programme on air quality, set out in the revised eu thematic air pollution strategy, and is consistent with and supports the europe 2020 strategy's objectives of smart, inclusive and sustainable growth. it aims to protect the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises, in accordance with the principle 'think small first'. in order to avoid a significant impact on small and medium-sized enterprises, which operate the majority of medium-sized combustion plants, more lenient measures were considered, such as the provision that operators would not be required to obtain a permit but would have to notify the competent authorities of the operation of the plant, thus ensuring registration. in addition, in order to make progress towards the eu's long-term (post-2020) objective of further reducing the health and environmental impacts of air pollution, a range of policy options were evaluated in the search for a cost-effective package of measures. a sample of additional eu source control measures was examined, one of which was for emissions from medium-sized combustion plants.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report. the importance of this report first and foremost stems from the fact that the proposal closes an important legislative loophole due to which emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants were left largely unregulated at the eu level. the eu must ensure that high quality of air is maintained and that the industry develops at no cost to the health of citizens. the clause on benchmarking progress and carrying out a review by the commission every 10 years takes into account the possible progress of cleaning technology and thus contributes to the practicality of this report. however, proper implementation of this report is very much necessary as about 75% of medium combustion plants are run by small and medium-sized enterprises, which have to be safeguarded from excessive amount of red-tape and double regulation.
in writing. a coherent and ambitious framework for tackling emissions needs to be developed at eu level. in particular, it is necessary to close regulatory loopholes and strike a balance between the costs and benefits of business to the environment and human health. air pollution must be controlled. it is therefore necessary to set limit values for new and existing installations, including the introduction of a simple registration system. however, the new regulation must not create an unjustified and disproportionate administrative burden. it is worth noting that reducing emissions from medium-sized combustion plants would contribute to the eu's energy and climate objectives, as well as to reducing greenhouse gases, increasing energy efficiency and promoting renewable energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to repeal directive 83/417/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to certain caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption. this directive aims to replace the existing provisions with a new one in order to adapt them to the further development of legislation, in particular as regards the right to food. in addition, it is necessary to align the composition requirements for edible caseins with the international standard food code. such harmonisation will ensure a level playing field for food business operators on the world market. i support the casein and caseinate labelling requirements which will enable consumers, particularly those with food allergies or intolerances, to choose foodstuffs which are safe for them with sufficient information.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to caseins and caseinates for human consumption. this commission proposal of march 2014 proposes to repeal the former directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to certain lactoprotein (caseins and caseinates) intended for human consumption and to replace it by a new directive, as the existing provisions need to be improved and the compositional requirements for edible caseins need to be aligned with the international standard (food code). the european parliament supports labelling requirements for casein and caseinates which will enable consumers, in particular those with food allergies or intolerances, to choose safe food products with sufficient information. the proposal should be considered in the context of the general food law, which aims to ensure the free movement of safe and wholesome food and thus to make a significant contribution to the health and well-being of citizens. it should therefore also be ensured that consumers are properly informed about the food they consume.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal on the financial rules applicable to the eu general budget. new provisions are included on market consultation, a new innovation partnership procedure, compliance with environmental, social and labour law as one of the key requirements, non-specific order of assessment of criteria, a methodology for awarding contracts based on the most economically advantageous tender. the financial regulation also includes, for the first time, works and service concessions and the same types of procedures as for public contracts.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the commission's proposal to bring the financial regulation into line with the provisions of the new directives on public procurement and the award of concession contracts. indeed, the obligation to apply common eu procurement rules to crisis management measures under the common foreign and security policy, and in particular to civilian missions under the common security and defence policy (csdp), is a reason for delays in the procurement of essential equipment and services, with a significant negative impact on the work of the missions. as usual, csdp missions have to operate in crisis situations and for a limited time. they shall be launched by a unanimous council decision recognising the need for an immediate response to the crisis. the eu's international credibility is threatened when the union takes on important commitments for peace and security. in addition, the safety of mission staff is often of paramount importance and they do not have the necessary equipment, such as armored vehicles. the european parliament therefore considers that special rules should be established for csdp missions which are primarily operating in crisis or post-crisis conditions. this is in line with the conclusions of the european council of december 2013.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report. the rules on public procurement and concessions should also apply to contracts concluded on behalf of the eu institutions. it is therefore appropriate to align the financial regulation with the provisions of the new directives on public procurement and on the award of concession contracts. in order to ensure early detection and prevention of risks, a common system must be in place in the eu to ensure strict application of the exclusion. it should be noted that this system should be built on the basis of the existing central database on the prohibition of participation in the procurement procedure. the protection of the financial interests of the union must remain a priority in the pursuit of the objectives envisaged. this protection must be continuously strengthened. in this context, i support the proposal to include tax evasion in the procurement procedures of the union institutions as a ground for exclusion from the procedure.
blue-card question.– we heard a speech praising gazprom as the most reliable supplier of gas to europe. one might get this idea, but how do you explain the situation in gazprom? this is probably the most corrupt major company in europe, with its huge buildings, and owners or management with close ties to moscow, and some ‘black’ deals made. finally, how would you explain the fact that gazprom charges ukraine more than germany? is there anything political in this? do you see this as purely economic and based on financial issues? how, if you are an economist and you base your thoughts on this, can you explain these higher prices for ukraine than for germany?
reducing the european union's energy dependence on russia is one of the key objectives of the energy union. therefore, such a long-term agreement between european energy companies and gazprom on the doubling of gas supplies to the nord stream pipeline is clearly contrary to the energy policy of the european union. the agreement unfairly circumvents the central and eastern european member states, which are still cut off from the european energy gas and electricity networks. what is the situation now for the member states most affected by russia in terms of energy, which, like lithuania, have built a liquefied gas terminal at their own expense, without financial assistance from the european union, in order to have at least one energy alternative and to reduce the price paid for energy resources? if private companies can make decisions that may even harm the interests of individual member states, our partners like ukraine, and the european union as a whole, then the question arises of what value is there in all our efforts to strengthen our energy independence, to further distance ourselves from russia in terms of energy, to invest billions of dollars in the missing infrastructure, and so on. it is scandalous that we have not been able to ensure that the commission is obliged to be informed of all energy agreements and to assess their impact. this case, like the volkswagen scandal, raises serious doubts about the credibility of the institutions of the european union, commissioner.
mr president, back in july of this year a group of members of the european parliament, including myself, wrote to the commission to ask it to assess the plans to double the capacities of the nord stream. i was rather shocked by the commissioner’s written answer, i quote: ‘adding capacity to the nord stream pipeline system is first and foremost a commercial decision.’ i call it business as usual, nothing new. therefore, in addition to the many good opinions expressed by my colleagues, i wish to ask the commissioner three simple questions. firstly, are you still sure, bearing in mind all the geopolitics, that bypassing ukraine is first and foremost a commercial project? secondly, do you not think that the expansion of nord stream inherently contradicts the eu energy security strategy and eu energy union? and thirdly, how can you see doubling the nord stream capacity as being consistent with reducing eu energy dependency on russia?
the commission should not treat this project as a commercial venture only, but should look at it in its entirety in the context of the european union's geostrategic interests, security and climate objectives. this project does not meet the stated objectives of the european union in terms of energy diversification and does not create a new source or route. and it does not meet the european union's priorities for energy efficiency and energy independence. there is no need to build another infrastructure in the baltic sea region. especially when gas consumption is steadily decreasing. there are already alternative sources, such as the liquefied gas terminal built in lithuania, which unfortunately is only used for a third of the time due to the lack of separation and the lack of networks. i want to believe that nord stream 2 will not become another example of the failure of european solidarity, unlike its predecessor nord stream, and will not be recognised as a project of european interest. how much can you say and do?
in writing. the project of the second 'nordstream' branch, which is being pushed by russia, should be assessed in the light of the current geopolitical perspective. the fate of ukraine is far from settled, and a front that has a significant impact on the resolution of europe's biggest security crisis appears to have moved into syria. russia continues to deepen tensions with the west. although the european commission successfully suspended the southstream project, expecting that russian energy interceptors would not be able to cover all of europe, moscow and turkey agreed to implement the bluestream project. but now we see that the partners may also be in serious trouble over the pipeline, because of their different approaches to the middle east crisis. in this context, the second nordstream project therefore took on new colours. i would like to draw attention to two aspects. first, the implementation of the project would allow russia to achieve its long-standing strategic objective of bypassing ukraine as a transit country for gas to europe. ukraine would lose not only $2 billion in annual revenue but also the ability to counter russia's "gas policy". secondly, it is strategically very convenient for russia to have only its own corridors for transporting gas to western europe, so that no one pays for the transportation costs. however, this would only further entrench the already strong influence of the russian gas giant in europe it poses a serious threat to the energy security of the countries of central and eastern europe and is fundamentally contrary to the idea of european solidarity.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. first of all, i would like to stress that the implementation of the directive on equal opportunities for women and men at work and in the labour market is indeed a difficult one in the member states. the directive should therefore be revised urgently, because we really have to deal with the longstanding problem of unequal pay between women and men for the same work. because this is the biggest violation and non-compliance of the principle of gender equality. as rapporteur for the committee on employment and social affairs, i therefore call on the member states to implement the commission's recommendation on strengthening the principle of equal pay for men and women by increasing transparency as effectively and actively as possible. secondly, i would like to remind you that there is a constant division of labour by sector. and women tend to work in those sectors that have lower wages, illegal jobs, jobs without guarantees, such as domestic work, nursing, caring for sick people. these are very hard jobs, but they are still undervalued and underpaid. finally, i would like to call on the commission to declare a european year against the gender pay gap.
in writing. ‒ since the digitisation process in the world continues to escalate very rapidly, the original payment services directive, which was adopted eight years ago, must be revised to reflect the current situation and address new risks. so i very much welcome the second payment services directive (psd 2) and i believe that it will lead to the development of, and innovation in, the internal market in payments, which is essential for the proper functioning of our single market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to increase competition in the payment services market. the updated rules on payment services aim to promote the efficiency, security and innovation of this market. the new rules should further open up the payments market to new service providers, for example those that rely on smartphone or e-money technologies, while maintaining the necessary settlement security requirements. it also lays down the conditions for the establishment and operation of payment institutions and clarifies the conditions for refunds and charges for the use of payment services.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which gives parliament its support to the commission's proposal to amend the provisions of the directive on payment services in the internal market. improvements are needed as important technical innovations have been introduced in the retail payments market the number of electronic and mobile payments has increased rapidly and new types of payment services have emerged on the market which pose challenges to the existing system. the commission has consulted and presented a green paper 'developing an integrated european card, online and mobile payments market' in which it highlighted that important areas of the payments market, in particular card, online and mobile payments, remain fragmented across national borders. it has also been found that in certain cases the scope of the existing directive, and in particular the elements to which it does not apply, such as certain payment activities, are too ambiguous, too general or simply outdated in the light of market developments. this has led to legal uncertainty, potential security risks in the payment chain and a lack of consumer protection in certain areas.
in writing. in order to improve the legal regulation of payment services, it is appropriate to extend the scope of the directive. in order to promote competition, it is important to ensure that legislation ensuring legal certainty is applied in the field of payment services. it is also necessary to ensure secure, efficient, competitive and innovative electronic payments. the protection of the rights and interests of payment service users should play a particular role. it is important to promote and ensure the principle of the functioning of the single market so that consumers, retailers and businesses can enjoy the full benefits of the single market. it should be noted that the new regulation must be flexible, easily adaptable to new market developments and new services, as the services market is constantly undergoing active development. the identification of barriers to innovation and efficiency improvements in advance is essential for the effective functioning of the single market.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution on the regulation of mortgages and risk finance in the eu. the large number of petitions received informs us of thousands of tragic personal cases where citizens have lost part or all of their life savings. in many cases, banks did not adequately inform consumers about the risks associated with the investments they offered. in addition, many of the citizens who have been affected are older people who have spent their life savings on investments that they were told were not risky. i support calls for all eu financial institutions to stop abusing customers in the areas of mortgage loans, complex financial products and credit cards, including excessive interest rates and arbitrary termination. the commission should establish a comprehensive eu-wide blacklist of financial institutions that regularly engage in unfair banking practices. the commission must harmonise the terms of mortgage contracts and debt recovery procedures in order to strengthen consumer protection across the eu.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which deals with the situation arising from the large number of petitions received concerning thousands of tragic personal cases in which citizens lose part or all of their life savings. in many of these cases, the banks did not adequately inform consumers of the extent of the risks associated with the proposed investments and, in such cases, the bank did not carry out fitness checks to determine whether customers were sufficiently knowledgeable to understand the financial risks they were taking. many of the citizens who have been affected are older people who have spent their life savings on investments that they were told were not risky. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to initiate legislation to harmonise the conditions of mortgage contracts and debt recovery procedures in order to strengthen consumer protection throughout the european union. in addition, the commission should share examples of best practice and assess the impact on consumers and businesses.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. in particular, action is needed to bring all financial institutions in the union to the brink of abusing their positions. the forced removal of families from their only place of residence must be prevented. firstly, the debt must be restructured and the company must participate in social leasing activities. the fundamental right to housing and the protection of citizens in financial difficulty must be strengthened and guaranteed throughout the eu. in addition, harmonised terms and conditions of mortgage contracts and debt repayment procedures should apply. the commission should establish as soon as possible a comprehensive eu blacklist of financial institutions that regularly engage in unfair banking practices. in view of the current situation, the commission should submit a proposal for a legislative act on family insolvency and second chance for individuals and households.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. the universal abolition of the death penalty is one of the main priorities as far as the eu policy on human rights is concerned. i hope that we can become more consistent in our actions, and pay systematic regard to this clause during all eu external dialogues and negations. i believe the eu must be a pioneer of the abolitionist campaign to put an end to capital punishment worldwide. moreover, we cannot keep turning a blind eye to what is going on in our closest neighbourhood: there is still one country in europe, belarus, which retains and applies capital punishment. the eu needs to use all the diplomatic tools at its command to exert pressure for a moratorium on the death penalty which would eventually lead to the complete abolition of this punishment in belarus.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution condemning the use of the death penalty. the abolition of the death penalty contributes to the promotion of human dignity and the eu's main objective is its total abolition. in 2014, 2,466 people were sentenced to death in 55 countries, almost 23% more than in 2013. i support calls for the eeas to continue to fight the use of the death penalty and to strongly support a moratorium as a step towards abolition of the death penalty. the commission should provide assistance and political support to countries making progress in the abolition of the death penalty.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament condemns the use of the death penalty and strongly supports the declaration of a moratorium on the death penalty as a step towards its abolition. the abolition of the death penalty contributes to the promotion of human dignity and the eu's main objective is its total abolition. parliament also condemned all executions wherever carried out and was deeply concerned about the use of the death penalty against minors and persons with mental or intellectual disabilities and called for an immediate and definitive end to this practice. the european parliament therefore calls on the european external action service (eeas) and the member states to continue to combat the use of the death penalty and calls on countries still applying the death penalty to comply with the minimum international standards in order to limit the scope and use of the death penalty, to publish clear and accurate data on the number of such sentences and executions. calls on the eeas, the commission and the member states to provide recommendations for a comprehensive and effective european policy on the death penalty, given that dozens of eu citizens face the death penalty in third countries;
in writing. i condemn the use of the death penalty and strongly support the declaration of a moratorium on the death penalty as a step towards its abolition; i reiterate that the abolition of the death penalty contributes to the promotion of human dignity and that the eu's primary objective is its total abolition.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution on the red mud disaster. on 4 october 2010, a collapsed waste dump in hungary released nearly 1 million cubic metres of highly charged red mud, flooding several villages and killing 10 people and injuring nearly 150. this disaster is attributed to poor implementation of eu legislation, insufficient checks, gaps in the relevant eu legislation and the performance of the warehouse manager. unfortunately, lessons have not been learned from this disaster, as the relevant eu legislation and international conventions continue to be poorly implemented, and checks continue to be poorly carried out. i support calls for the commission to focus more on research and technological development in the field of prevention and management of hazardous waste. the commission should develop guidelines for stress testing in existing mines with large waste storage facilities.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which deals with the situation following the accident in hungary, where a landfill collapsed on 4 october 2010 and almost 1 million cubic metres of very high-purity red sludge were released. it flooded several villages, killed 10 people and injured nearly 150 and contaminated vast areas of land, including four natura 2000 sites. this red mud accident is the biggest industrial disaster in hungary. it was a time of rapid and effective response by national authorities and of great efforts by civil society to help in the event of disaster. however, the european parliament is concerned that there seems to have been little learning from the experience of the past five years, and that the relevant eu legislation and international conventions continue to be poorly implemented, checks continue to be poorly carried out and almost no gaps in the relevant eu legislation have been filled in the meantime. parliament also expressed concern at the existence of similar sites in several member states and called on all member states with red sludge tanks to verify as soon as possible that red sludge is properly classified as hazardous waste and to correct any permits that contained incorrect classification.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. the disaster exposed gaps in the implementation of eu legislation that have not yet been filled. i'm sorry, but the past has not taught us a lesson. no progress has been made in the implementation of eu and international legislation and checks continue to be poorly carried out. in this context, the commission and the member states need to step up their efforts to make progress in this area. more attention should be paid to research and technological development in the field of prevention and management of hazardous waste. monitoring needs to be strengthened and the polluter pays principle needs to be implemented more effectively. the commission should submit a proposal for legislation on environmental inspections as soon as possible. however, the new regulation should not create an additional financial burden for the industry. it should be noted that particular attention should be paid to the transparency of the financial aspects of the remediation of the consequences of environmental disasters, including the payment of financial compensation to victims. in addition, the commission should prepare a legislative proposal on the right of access to justice in environmental matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the renewal of the eu's gender equality and women's empowerment agenda for development cooperation. the eu is committed to promoting gender equality and gender mainstreaming in all its actions. i agree that the european external action service and the commission need to renew their political commitments to achieve better results.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because gender equality and the empowerment of women is a prerequisite for achieving the post-2015 sdgs, and also as an inherently important human rights objective to be pursued despite its benefits for development and economic growth. sadly, one in three women worldwide has experienced physical and sexual violence at some point in her life, and 14 million girls are forced into marriage every year. gender-based violence is a serious violation of human rights and should never be justified by religion, culture or tradition. the european parliament therefore considers that gender equality and the empowerment of women should be a priority area of the eu institutions, with clear accountability in governance both at central level and in the eu delegations. parliament called on eu delegations and member states' embassies to prioritise and invest in qualitative gender analysis as a basis for country strategies and programmes. the european union should review the national indicative plans in the light of the new action plan on gender equality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which seeks to achieve equal pay for men and women for equal work. economic independence is a prerequisite for eu citizens - both men and women - to be able to control their lives and have real choices. i support calls for the commission to develop guidelines for gender-neutral job evaluation and classification systems. the commission and the member states should establish effective monitoring systems to improve the collection of data on cases of discrimination on grounds of sex, including discrimination on grounds of pregnancy, maternity, childbirth or other types of leave.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament calls on the commission and the member states to tackle the age-old problem of equal pay for men and women in the same work. on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (empl), i have delivered an opinion on this report, in which i call on the member states to implement the commission's recommendation on strengthening the principle of equal pay for men and women by increasing transparency as effectively and actively as possible. i also believe that this directive should be revised, given that today in almost all member states there are a number of problems and obstacles in this area which prevent it from being fully implemented. i also call on the member states to ensure the protection of maternity and to take measures to prevent unfair dismissals of workers during pregnancy and to protect women and men with caring responsibilities from unfair dismissals.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is unacceptable and strange to me that in recent times the refrain of many speeches has been an indirect call to the states to renounce their sovereignty and to create a federal united states of europe. the new independent states are unable to deal with the migration and other crises that afflict europe because of different legal regulations and different political motives, and a federal union would be the salvation from all the problems that the old continent is facing today. colleagues, it is therefore naive to add that no one has today revoked the right of nations to self-determination and to be free and independent. it is strange to hear that the question of the united kingdom's intention to hold a referendum on membership of the european union is on the council's agenda today. what plans could and would the president of the european council set out for a further process which is legitimate and highly democratic? ban the alphabet of democracy? ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that the treaty on european union sounds like a treaty on the sovereign states and peoples of europe, and so far no one has given us or the council a mandate to revise that treaty.
in writing. climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity, with implications for sustainable development, health and the global economy. rising temperatures, melting ice caps, and increased droughts and floods are all signs that the climate is warming. the response to climate change therefore requires an urgent, responsible and global solution based on solidarity of the international community. on 6 march 2015, eu environment ministers formally committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the european union. the european union and its member states have jointly committed to a binding target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the european union by at least 40% by 2030 compared to 1990. in march 2015, the european union informed the secretariat of the unfccc of the estimated national contribution. the european union's contribution should inspire other parties by ensuring clarity, transparency and achievement of objectives. the european union's ambitious commitments are crucial to ensuring its credibility in the negotiations. the eu needs to pursue an effective and ambitious policy to transition to a different energy system by 2050, using not only climate and energy policy instruments but also other areas such as transport, research, innovation, trade and development cooperation.
in writing. climate change is no longer a matter of debate, but a problem that must be addressed now. it is right that the european union is taking a leading role in setting ambitious targets to help tackle climate change. but we must not forget that the most important thing in this fight is to attract the solidarity of the entire international community. the efforts of the european union alone will not be enough, and it is therefore necessary to finally reach a global, binding agreement. in this global context, we should not forget the competitiveness of our industry and the problem of carbon leakage. i am convinced that the new energy model, focusing on energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, that we have chosen to implement in europe is the right way to fight climate change, and that clear progress has been made and that new opportunities must be exploited in the negotiations leading to the adoption of a new international climate change agreement in paris.
in writing.– we are living in the digital age when the extent of the collection of the personal data is growing rapidly. thus without a doubt a legal framework of a well-functioning data protection system is essential for our privacy. european citizens must be guaranteed that their personal data will be respected and well protected even when it is transmitted to third countries. thus i call on all the responsible eu and us institutions to act and do everything in order to ensure that a prompt and solid solution for the robust arrangement of the transatlantic data flows would be set out in full compliance with the european court of justice ruling. data protection is and must remain a major legal right in the eu.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, the last normandy meeting was an encouraging move forward and i would certainly like to welcome its results. the commitments made by all sides must be respected by all sides. this is the only way forward out of the madness. however, i would like to warn all of us not to be over-optimistic. yesterday the ceasefire was breached. one ukrainian soldier was killed. the silence is very fragile. i would like to remind you that the humanitarian aid organisations are still not able to resume their activities in the areas controlled by the pro-kremlin militia. as the winter approaches, this may result in a humanitarian catastrophe on an unimaginable scale. we also observe the kremlin puppets trying to bargain, or blackmail, over the local elections issue. no surprise, actually! but one thing is clear: the elections will simply be illegitimate unless they are held in accordance with ukrainian legislation and with the participation of internally displaced persons. i am absolutely sure that, at this juncture, sending any signals to moscow about the possibilities of softening or lifting the sanctions would be far too premature and therefore harmful. the kremlin would take it simply as a sign of our weakness. instead, the eu should focus on demining, on sending a common security and defence policy mission to eastern ukraine and on the secure delivery of humanitarian aid.
mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential that the european parliament sends a strong signal that russian intervention in syria will in no way weaken europe's commitments to ukraine. it is certainly not the time to talk about lifting sanctions against russia, because the results of russian aggression have not yet been reversed. former so-called 'minister of foreign affairs' of the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. the ukrainian authorities have repeatedly violated human rights in the occupied territories and will not hold local elections in the donetsk and luhansk regions on 25 october. so it was very strange to hear the head of the european commission say in this context that it was time to re-establish good relations with russia. russia has shown far from a commitment to respect international law and the right of its neighbours to choose their own future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to allow the designated authorities of the member states and europol to use the visa information system for the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and other serious crimes. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the council decision to grant access to the visa information system (vis) to the authorities designated by the member states and to europol for the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences. this decision contributes to the creation of a common eu area of freedom, security and justice, in which eu citizens, workers and capital can move freely, but which must be protected from both external and internal threats. denmark, ireland and great britain have not acceded to this decision. the italian republic.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the council implementing decision fixing the date of effect of decision 2008/633/jha concerning access for consultation of the visa information system (vis) by member states and europol for the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and of other serious criminal offences. this would help to build a more safe, free and just europe. it allows people to move freely but at the same time reinforces the required protection from any possible threats.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for the adoption of draft amending budget no 6/2015. it concerns the adjustment of the projections for the traditional own resources, vat and gni bases, the budgetary inclusion and financing of the corresponding adjustments to the united kingdom, which change the distribution of the contributions of the member states to the union budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for draft amending budget no 6/2015 of the european union, which makes the necessary changes to certain sections of the 2015 budget. this draft amending budget concerns the adjustment of the estimates of the traditional own resources, vat and gni bases, the budgeting and financing of the corresponding adjustments to the united kingdom, which alter the distribution of the contributions of the member states to the union budget. this amending budget also covers the creation of two new budget lines to support the expenditure of trust funds managed by the european commission in the fields of development and cooperation and enlargement policy respectively. and lastly, this draft amending budget amends the establishment plan of the office of the european electronic communications regulators (eerri) without changing the total number of posts or the amount of the budget allocated to the office.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 6/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, own resources, union trust funds for external action, office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications. this necessary draft amending budget no 6/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015 concerns a revision of the forecast of traditional own resources, vat and gni bases, the budgeting of the relevant corrections concerning the united kingdom, as well as their financing, thereby resulting in a change in the distribution between member states of their contribution to the eu budget. furthermore it covers the creation of two new budget items for support expenditure for trust funds managed by the commission, in the policy areas ‘development and cooperation’ and ‘enlargement’, both with a token entry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to provide an additional €66.1 million for measures to manage the refugee and migration crisis. this support will be available to the eu countries most affected by the migrant influx, to third countries hosting syrian refugees, and to eu agencies involved in crisis management. it is also important to review the eu budgetary framework for 2014-2020 in order to provide more flexibility in responding to emerging crises.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the report by which parliament, together with the council of the european union, decided to endorse the flexibility instrument for the mobilisation of urgent budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration. the general eu budgetary rules allow the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument within the annual ceiling of eur 471 million (2011 prices) to allow for the financing of clearly identified additional, unforeseen expenditure in a given area that would not be financed within the ceilings for one or more other categories of expenditure. after examining all possibilities for reallocating appropriations under the ceiling for the 'security and citizenship' expenditure category, the eu's main institutions decided that it was necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument to supplement the financing provided for in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015 by eur 66,1 million for the financing of measures in the field of migration. this decision also provides that, for the migration strand, the flexibility instrument will mobilise payment appropriations of eur 52,9 million in 2016 and of eur 13,2 million in 2017.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration, in accordance with point 12 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management because it allows the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for an amount of eur 66.1 million in commitment appropriations. furthermore, i agree to the proposed allocation of the corresponding payment appropriations of eur 52.9 million in 2016 and eur 13.2 million in 2017. the mobilisation of this instrument, as provided for in article 11 of the mff regulation, shows, once more, the crucial need for the european union budget to be more flexible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the additional increase in the emergency funding adding eur 100 million to this budget for 2015. a number of measures have already been introduced in order to address the consequences of the migration crisis; however, the unprecedented number of refugees requires further and immediate actions. in order to manage the sudden rise in the refugee flows, political decisions need to result in the smooth implementation of operational actions which cannot be carried out without a rapid allocation of adequate financial resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for the adoption of draft amending budget no 7/2015. it aims to increase the union's resources to deal with the current refugee and migrant crisis. i support this project, which increases the emergency assistance provided by the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and the internal security fund, to a total of eur 100 million in commitment appropriations, together with the necessary resources and other programmes financed by the amif.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it confirms parliament's approval of draft amending budget no 7/2015 proposed by the council, which aims to increase the union's resources to deal with the current refugee and migrant crisis. this draft amending budget increases the emergency assistance provided by the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and the internal security fund (isf) by a total of eur 100 million in commitment appropriations, together with the necessary resources and other programmes financed by the amif. it also provides for an additional increase in the number of officials in frontex, the european asylum support office (easo) and europol, totalling 120 posts, as well as the corresponding salary allocations by the end of the year.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 7/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015: managing the refugee crisis: immediate budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration because it welcomes the swift response from the commission in dealing with the current refugee crisis, reiterates the readiness of the european parliament to act in due time in accordance with its budgetary responsibilities, and points out that the proposed measures have to be coupled with initiatives aimed at addressing the root causes of the migration and refugee crisis. fundamentally, all of the eu’s member states need to work together to deal with refugees arriving in europe. solidarity and shared responsibility is crucial during this uneasy time.
in writing. ‒ the the refugee crisis and ineffective management are now being identified as a fundamental problem for the european union, giving rise to economic and social problems. with the influx of refugees, old europe faces serious challenges and problems. therefore, a long-term solution should be provided for and a financial plan should be provided for. in order to respond to the current refugee and migrant crisis, it is appropriate to increase the union's resources. additional financial support is urgently needed for the eu countries most affected by the migrant flows. it could also be used by third countries hosting syrian refugees. this would contribute to the stabilisation of the countries of origin and assist the countries of transit. more attention should be paid to the activities of frontex. it is necessary to ensure better protection of the external borders and to control the flows of migrants by preventing smuggling.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the report by which parliament decided to waive the immunity of the hungarian mep, béla kovács. the prosecutor general of hungary has requested the waiver of the immunity of this member of the european parliament in order to allow an investigation to be carried out on the basis of reasonable suspicions in order to determine whether mr kovács will be charged with the crime of espionage against the eu institutions. the hungarian criminal code provides that a person who conducts intelligence activities against the european parliament, the european commission or the council of the european union for the benefit of a non-eu country is punishable under article 261 thereof. the same article of the hungarian criminal code provides that a person who conducts intelligence activities against hungary for the benefit of a foreign state or a foreign organisation commits a criminal offence punishable by a term of imprisonment of between two and eight years.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the request for waiver of the immunity of béla kovács. the request for the waiver of the immunity of béla kovács is made in order that investigations can be carried out, on the basis of reasonable suspicions, to see whether a charge will lie against him with regard to the offence of espionage against the institutions of the european union under section 261/a of act c of 2012 on the hungarian criminal code. according to that section, any person who conducts intelligence activities for a non-european union third country against the european parliament, the european commission or the council of the european union shall be punishable in accordance with section 261, paragraph 1 of which provides that any person who conducts intelligence activities for a foreign power or foreign organisation against hungary is guilty of a felony punishable by a term of imprisonment of between two and eight years. this is a very serious allegation and it is our duty to remove any obstacles for the investigation and to clear the path for the right and just decision to be made.
in writing. ‒ the executive director of the esif shall be appointed by the eib with the approval of the european parliament. on 13 october 2015, the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs held a hearing with iliyana tsanova, proposed candidate for the post of deputy executive director of the esif. i agree with the appointment of ms iliyana tsanova as deputy executive director of the esif.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament endorses the appointment of ms iliyana tsanova as deputy executive director of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). in particular, the proposal for the appointment of the executive director and the deputy executive director of the esif was adopted by the esif governing council on 2 october 2015 and forwarded to the european parliament. following this, the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs held a hearing with iliyana tsanova, the proposed candidate for the post of deputy executive director of the esif, in the european parliament on 13 october 2015, during which the candidate gave an introductory speech and then answered questions from the members of the committees. her candidacy was endorsed by the european parliament in plenary session.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the proposal for the appointment of the deputy managing director of the european fund for strategic investments. having regard to the proposal of the steering board of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) of 2 october 2015 for the appointment of its deputy managing director, having regard to article 7(6) of regulation (eu) 2015/1017 of the european parliament and of the council of 25 june 2015 on the european fund for strategic investments, the european investment advisory hub and the european investment project portal and amending regulations (eu) no 1291/2013 and (eu) no 1316/2013 – the european fund for strategic investments. due to the regulations being followed and the trust expressed to the candidate, i voted for the approval of the appointment.
in writing. ‒ the executive director of the esif shall be appointed by the eib with the approval of the european parliament. on 13 october 2015, the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs held a hearing with mr wilhelmus molterer, proposed candidate for the post of executive director of the esif. i agree with the appointment of mr wilhelm molterer as executive director of the esif.
in writing. ‒ i have voted on this report in which the european parliament gives its consent to the appointment of mr wilhelm molterer as executive director of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). in particular, the proposal for the appointment of the executive director and the deputy executive director of the esif was adopted by the esif governing council on 2 october 2015 and forwarded to the european parliament. the commission has also received a request from the european investment fund (eif) to provide additional information on the proposed candidate for the post of managing director of the european investment fund (eif). his candidacy was endorsed by the european parliament in plenary session.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the proposal for the appointment of the managing director of the european fund for strategic investments(efsi). having regard to the proposal of the steering board of the european fund for strategic investments of 2 october 2015 for the appointment of its managing director and of regulation (eu) 2015/1017 provides that the managing director and deputy managing director of the efsi are to be appointed by the eib after approval by the european parliament following an open and transparent selection process in line with eib procedures, during which the european parliament shall be kept duly informed in a timely manner at all stages. due to this i voted for the decision to approve the appointment of wilhelm molterer for the position of managing director of the efsi.
in writing. ‒ climate change is a present and real problem which can be addressed only by a joint international effort. the previous agreements such as kyoto proved to be effective to some extent – especially in the case of europe, which despite the steady gdp growth has reduced its emission levels by 19% since 1990. however, as a result of the new—growing economies in the east and other world economic activity, overall emission levels in the world have doubled and the costs of inaction might be very high. therefore, i very much support this resolution’s call for an ambitious, global and binding agreement. it is time to reconsider the action plan which could help mitigate climate change.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, which sets out the mandate of the european parliament's delegation to the united nations climate change conference in paris at the end of the year. i support calls for binding targets to combat the effects of climate change: 40% reduction in carbon dioxide emissions by 2030, 30% for renewable energy and 40% for energy efficiency. the eu's climate policy needs to be stepped up to meet the eu's 2050 greenhouse gas emission reduction target of 80-95% compared to 1990 levels. measures to combat climate change need to be reviewed by 2020 to take account of the latest scientific assessments. in 2015, the eu and its member states should agree on a plan to contribute in good faith to the us$100 billion commitment to combat climate change by 2020. it is important to use additional sources of financing by deferring part of the marketing of allowances or by using the revenues from the control of emissions from the aviation and shipping sectors.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because the european parliament is actively involved in european policy on climate change. the european parliament recalls that it will have to give its consent for the european union to ratify the legally binding agreement adopted at the paris conference. the european parliament will therefore have to participate fully in the coordination meetings organised in the context of the paris conference. the european union's contribution should inspire other parties by ensuring clarity, transparency and achievement of objectives. the success of the european union (its emissions decreased by 19% between 1990 and 2012, and its gdp increased by 45%) and the fact that eu emissions are a decreasing share of global emissions show that climate change mitigation is compatible with economic development. the european union must continue and strengthen its diplomatic efforts to better understand the positions of partner countries, to encourage them to adopt ambitious policies to combat climate change and to build alliances to that end. the implementation of the commitments made by the parties to the paris agreement will also depend on the efforts of non-state actors such as cities, regions, industry and investors. the paris conference must give a clear signal to these actors to encourage them to take action, including international recognition of their efforts.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the resolution ‘towards a new international climate agreement in paris’. this resolution calls for an ambitious, legally binding and comprehensive global agreement with economy-wide reduction targets. it underlines that the agreement should have a long-term mitigation objective in line with scientific findings. it underlines that the agreement must contain a 5-year review process that enables a progressive strengthening of the agreement. therefore, based on these grounds i voted for this resolution.
in writing. ‒ climate change is one of the most pressing global issues. it is therefore essential that an agreement on a new international climate change agreement is reached in paris. we cannot remain indifferent to the challenges of climate change. the issues of climate change mitigation, adaptation, finance, technology development, transparency of action and support need to be addressed urgently. particular attention should be paid to the world's largest polluters, which should participate in the agreement and undertake equivalent commitments. all countries in the world should make legally binding climate change mitigation commitments after 2020. it should be noted that the new agreement should be in line with today's economic reality. all countries must contribute to the financing of climate change action and the divide between developing and developed countries must be removed.
the joint undertaking has made considerable progress in implementing the action plan to address the deficiencies identified by the court of auditors, as confirmed by the scl. the company's ex post audit strategy was improved in cooperation with the national funding authorities, a dedicated audit reporting format was introduced and a systematic assessment of the quality of these audits was carried out. this was accompanied by an exchange of information on the requirements of financial programmes and examples of good practice, as well as by an improved policy on the management and prevention of conflicts of interest and the development of a comprehensive database containing all information related to conflicts of interest and actions. since artemis and eniac no longer exist separately, any recommendations related to improvements in audit procedures will have to be implemented by the new ecsel joint undertaking, and it is therefore important to give it time and to provide it with a discharge.
in writing.– since our economy is more and more interlinked with a digital dimension, i believe that a genuine single market for electronic communications is an essential part in order to pave the path for sustainable growth in europe by improving conditions for the existing international businesses and digital industries. in addition, the telecoms single market would vastly benefit consumers who would enjoy fair and competitive prices for the digital devices and services.
three observations after the council of elders. first, it was finally acknowledged that europe had not so far been assertive in protecting its external borders, and it was at least agreed that some steps would be taken. that's actually good. second, the council will allocate some 10 billion euros to countries in asia and africa, apparently hoping to buy peace to stop migrants from pouring into europe. i think that's naive. thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, we need a new immigration policy which clearly states that europe is open only to refugees who come directly from the war zone, the principles of which are based on the existing national governments and on new decisions on the temporary accommodation or integration policy of war refugees, if the community countries agree. and then some. national interests are by no means nationalist and there is no need to pretend to be unaware of this and to frighten oneself and others with things that have never been.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to repeal council directive 76/621/eec and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006, as these acts are no longer relevant.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports the repeal of the 1976 council directive on the fixing of maximum levels of erucic acid in oils and fats and of council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 establishing a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry. certain acts adopted in recent decades are no longer relevant in the sense that their content is regulated by more recent acts or in view of their temporary nature. in line with the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, eu legislation should be updated and reduced by repealing obsolete legislation, thus ensuring greater transparency and certainty. the commission proposal states that the commission does not have the power to declare acts adopted by the council to be obsolete. the council and the european parliament must therefore do so in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because certain legal acts adopted in the last decades have lost their relevance because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts, or due to their temporary nature. i believe that in accordance with the inter-institutional agreement on better law—making, european union law should be updated and condensed by removing acts which are no longer applied, in order to improve transparency and certainty.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. it should be noted that some legislation adopted in recent decades has become obsolete and no longer has any effect. it is therefore essential to repeal outdated agricultural legislation that is not fit for purpose and to ensure that the rules are clear and predictable. reducing the number of european union acts by repealing those that are no longer applicable would increase transparency. moreover, greater clarity would be provided to all citizens and to all member states, as the effects of legislation on those to whom it applies must be clear and predictable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for an eu-swiss agreement that would limit the ability of eu citizens to hide their finances in swiss banks and thus avoid paying taxes. from 2018, the eu and switzerland will automatically exchange data on the bank accounts of their citizens. this agreement on tax transparency contributes to the fight against tax evasion and fraud. it will not only exchange information on interest or dividends but also on account balances or sales of financial assets.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its consent to the conclusion of an eu-switzerland agreement on the automatic exchange of information on reportable accounts with a view to improving international cooperation and compliance in the field of taxation. this agreement is an important step in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, updating the 2004 agreement which ensured that switzerland applied measures equivalent to those of the eu savings income tax directive. the eu and switzerland will automatically exchange information on financial accounts held by each other's residents as of 2018. the aim is to respond to cases where a taxpayer attempts to conceal capital, which constitutes income or assets for which no tax has been paid. the agreement also aims to ensure that switzerland applies stricter measures that are equivalent to the eu directive updated in march 2014 and that it complies with the provisions on automatic exchange of information on reportable accounts promoted by the 2014 global standards of the organisation for economic cooperation and development (oecd).
in writing. ‒ i voted for this agreement because it represents an important step in ongoing efforts to clamp down on tax fraud and tax evasion and upgrades the 2004 agreement that ensured that switzerland applied measures equivalent to those in an eu directive on the taxation of savings. i support the fact that, under this agreement, the eu and switzerland will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of each other’s residents, starting in 2018. the aim is to address situations where a taxpayer seeks to hide capital representing income or assets for which taxes have not been paid.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report and i am in favour of the conclusion of this agreement. this agreement is necessary to prevent tax fraud and tax evasion. it is necessary to strengthen eu-swiss cooperation in the field of taxation. switzerland needs to become more open. therefore, the exchange of information on financial accounts between residents is necessary. in particular, it will ensure full tax transparency and cooperation between tax administrations and prevent illegal tax activities. it is essential that switzerland applies the stricter measures provided for in eu law. the contracting parties shall enhance international cooperation and mutual compliance in the field of taxation by providing each other with administrative and judicial assistance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to repeal the 2003 savings income tax directive. this is done to avoid the member states having to apply both the provisions of the taxation of savings income directive and the provisions of the directive on administrative cooperation, and thus avoid the inconvenience of double data collection and reporting systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it gives parliament its support for the commission's proposal to repeal the eu's savings tax directive 2003/48/ec. the commission notes that the 2014 guidelines are not binding on the member states and that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the guidelines. as a result, there is now a duplication of reporting standards in the union. in march 2015, together with the tax transparency package, the commission proposed to repeal the 2003 savings tax directive, so that member states would not be obliged to apply the provisions of both directives, avoiding the inconvenience of double data collection and reporting systems, and parliament agreed today.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because the scope of financial products covered by the eu savings tax directive and the directive on administrative cooperation, while generally similar, is not exactly identical. some products, mostly low-risk depository accounts promoted for savings purposes will not be reported anymore under the directive on administrative cooperation. while there are low risks for tax evasion, i believe it is important for the commission to continue monitoring that the repeal does not create loopholes.
in writing. i agree with the report. it is essential to close any existing legal loopholes and to prevent tax evasion or avoidance. in addition, only one standard for the automatic exchange of information should be applied in the eu. two standards cannot be applied in parallel. an effectively functioning common system will help to avoid duplication of reporting systems. in view of this, i think it is appropriate to repeal the savings income tax directive. this would give proper effect to the principles of better regulation, as well as clarity and legal certainty. in addition, the new legal framework will reduce potential additional risks and ensure effective safeguards and reduce administrative burden.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to support council decision 2008/615/jha on the exchange of personal data in sweden to improve crossborder cooperation in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it was the one that gave parliament its support for the council decision to launch the automatic exchange of dactyloscopic data in sweden. this decision is part of the improvement of crossborder cooperation, in particular in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime. pursuant to decision 2008/615/jha, personal data may not be transmitted as provided for in that decision until the general provisions on the protection of personal data laid down in that decision have been implemented in the national law of the territories of the member states which have transmitted such data. sweden has implemented these provisions and will soon have the right to receive and supply personal data for the purposes of automated searching of dactyloscopic data.
in writing. ‒ i voted for automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in sweden because it will help the stepping up of cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to approve council decision 2008/615/jha on the exchange of personal data in poland to improve crossborder cooperation in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the council decision to launch the automatic exchange of dactyloscopic data in belgium. this decision is part of the improvement of crossborder cooperation, in particular in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime. pursuant to decision 2008/615/jha, personal data may not be transmitted as provided for in that decision until the general provisions on the protection of personal data laid down in that decision have been implemented in the national law of the territories of the member states which have transmitted such data. belgium has implemented these provisions and will therefore shortly have the right to receive and supply personal data for the purposes of automated searching of dactyloscopic data.
in writing. – i voted for the automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in belgium because i believe it will help step up cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to approve council decision 2008/615/jha on the exchange of personal data in poland to improve crossborder cooperation in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the council decision to launch the automatic exchange of dactyloscopic data in poland. this decision is part of the improvement of crossborder cooperation, in particular in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime. pursuant to decision 2008/615/jha, personal data may not be transmitted as provided for in that decision until the general provisions on the protection of personal data laid down in that decision have been implemented in the national law of the territories of the member states which have transmitted such data. poland has implemented these provisions and will soon have the right to receive and supply personal data for the purposes of automated searching of dactyloscopic data.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in poland because i believe it will help step up cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to give more rights to travellers who buy package tours. online shopping and the services offered by low-cost airlines have changed the way people buy their travel, so that many package holidays are now outside the scope of the eu rules that have been in force since 1990. in order to ensure adequate protection of travellers, the updated rules will clarify the provisions on package tours comprising different services (flights, accommodation and car rental) purchased together. it is important that travellers are afforded the same level of consumer protection, whether the package is purchased in an office or online. travel organisers will also have to provide their customers with detailed information about the upcoming trip and clearly identify who will be responsible for the proper execution of the package.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the new european parliament and council directive on package travel and associated travel arrangements. from now on, whether a package is bought in an office or online, travellers will be afforded the same protection. the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. parliament also included a provision whereby different services such as flights, accommodation and car hire purchased together are considered as part of a package. even if different travel services are purchased in one payment, whether online, at the office or by telephone, the same traveller rights as for package travellers apply to such a booking.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against because i do not support the recommendation approval for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on package travel and linked travel arrangements, amending regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 and directive 2011/83/eu of the european parliament and of the council and repealing council directive 90/314/eec.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this text. this is a case of the eu responding and adapting to the changing and ever-modernising environment, where packaged sales and linked travel arrangements are becoming more and more popular. the new directive provides better consumer protection by setting clear standards on cancellation terms that limit post-contractual price increase to 8% (and establishing the right to cancel the arrangement free of charge in case of higher increases in price), ensuring the return of payments to customers in case of bankruptcy of a service provider though insolvency provisions, and so on. these new rules will protect the 120 million europeans that use combined travel arrangements. the commission estimates that the implementation of the new rules will reduce damages to consumers by about €430 million annually.
in writing. i agree with the report. it should be noted that the increasing use of the internet has made the current legal framework less clear and relevant. new rules are therefore needed to make the eu simpler and safer for passengers. the protection of travellers must be uniform, regardless of whether the travel is purchased at a post office or online, and the protection of travellers will be uniform. the eu needs to apply harmonised common mandatory rules on the protection of travellers. a high level of consumer protection is necessary. particular attention should be paid to cases where tour operators or service providers become insolvent. it should be noted that in order to improve competition in this market, a level playing field is needed for undertakings in the travel sector. in addition, the financial and administrative burden on businesses should be reduced and legal barriers to cross-border trade removed.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to abolish the roaming charge. the updated rules provide for the abolition of the eu roaming charge as from june 2017. they also propose to restrict the ability of internet access service providers to block or slow down the operation of competing applications. as of 15 june 2017, mobile operators will not be able to charge higher rates for mobile phone calls, text messages and data transfers when leaving the eu. the maximum allowable premium for a minute of a call abroad will not exceed €0,05, €0,02 for a message and €0,05 for a megabyte of data transmitted as from 30 april 2016. the new rules also require internet access providers to manage all traffic in the same way, i.e. not to block or slow down certain senders or receivers or the applications they use, unless necessary to comply with court orders, maintain network security and combat cyber attacks.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down measures concerning open internet access and amending directive 2002/22/ec on universal service and users’ rights relating to electronic communications networks and services and regulation (eu) no 531/2012 on roaming on public mobile communications networks within the union. due to the fact that the parliament had to give in on a very complicated mechanism to ensure the sustainability of certain operators, even though the principle of this safeguard clause was shared, the design is very complicated.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a very important piece of eu legislation. this new law, when implemented, will have a positive impact that citizens of the eu will be able to experience themselves in their day-to-day life. this law will put an end to roaming charges as of 15 june 2017. a barrier that has been a hindrance in our single eu market, where people could move between countries freely but could not use electronic communications as they would do at home, will be abolished. people will be able to pay the price they pay at home for texts, calls and mobile data everywhere in the eu.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. in order to achieve the digital single market, no roaming charge should be applied in the eu. the eu must have access to an open internet and the principle of net neutrality must be properly implemented. all internet data flows should be treated equally. in addition, an effective open internet protection mechanism is needed. to this end, common rules for electronic communications should apply. the new legal framework will help ensure the openness of the internet, while avoiding the fragmentation of the internal market due to measures adopted by individual member states. internet service providers should not block or slow down the performance of competing applications. it is therefore necessary to ensure that all flows are managed in the same way by the service providers. all internet traffic should be treated equally. particular attention should be paid to the implementation of the principles of the right of consumers to access and to disseminate content of their choice online.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to further strengthen the eu's role as the main and responsible global actor in the fight against the death penalty and the abolition of torture. it aims to strengthen provisions on ancillary services relating to the transport of goods, as well as on transit, technical assistance and commercial marketing. member states should be able to prohibit or suspend the transfer of security-related goods which are manifestly unsuitable for any purpose other than the execution of the death penalty, torture or other ill-treatment. i also support the proposal to set up an equipment coordination group, to establish a periodic review mechanism, to increase the systematic exchange of information and reporting in order to improve the supervision and effective implementation of this regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it expresses parliament's position on the trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. eu export controls are an instrument of external trade policy serving a variety of wider policy objectives. the torture regulation is a unique instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights by controlling goods and activities that are or could be misused for the purposes of capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the torture regulation contributes to the eu's long-term policy to abolish the death penalty and prevent torture worldwide.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other treatment or punishment because i condemn the death penalty and torture wherever it occurs. with this vote i support vital technical updates that ensure tighter controls and a level playing field in europe, without creating excessive bureaucratic burdens or restrictions on legitimate medicine use. this regulation is one piece of the bigger legislative puzzle that should ensure europe is a strong global player that leads in terms of values such as respect for universal human rights.
in writing. i believe that trade in goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment should be prohibited. in particular, medical products used for the execution of the death penalty by lethal injection should be included in the scope of the regulation. it is also essential to prohibit brokering services relating to goods which are prohibited for export and import. similarly, authorisations for the transit of such goods should not be issued. customs authorities should use an early warning system when exchanging relevant information. it should be noted that the eu should also seek to control other services related to these goods, in addition to technical assistance and brokering services.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at the automatic exchange of information on tax rulings in the eu member states. under the new rules, eu countries will have to exchange information on tax rulings and benefits granted to multinational companies. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the tax exemption granted to luxopco is compatible with the internal market. i believe that the new rules should not only apply to crossborder decisions, as national tax decisions can also have an impact on other eu countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it sets out parliament's position on the amendment of the council directive on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. the problem of cross-border tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition has increased significantly and is of great concern in the union and globally. under the current legal framework - directive 2011/16/eu on administrative cooperation - member states share very little information about their tax rulings. the lack of transparency in tax rulings is exploited by certain companies to artificially reduce their tax contributions.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report on mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation because that would help to fight the cross-border tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition. tax base erosion is considerably reducing national tax revenues, which hinders member states in applying growth-friendly tax policies, causes distortions of competition to the detriment of undertakings – particularly smes – which pay the correct amounts of tax and shifts taxation towards less mobile factors such as labour and consumption.
in writing. ‒ based on the ecsel's assurance, the joint undertaking has made considerable progress in implementing the action plan to address the deficiencies identified by the court. the company's ex post audit strategy was improved in cooperation with the national funding authorities, a dedicated audit reporting format was introduced and the quality of these audits was assessed more systematically. at the same time, information was exchanged on the requirements of financial programmes and examples of best practice. the policy on the management and prevention of conflicts of interest has also been improved and a comprehensive database has been established containing all information related to conflicts of interest and the actions taken to resolve them. since artemis and eniac no longer exist separately, any recommendations related to improvements in audit procedures will have to be implemented by the new ecsel joint undertaking, and it is therefore important to give it time and to provide it with a discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it confirms parliament's discharge for the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. the artemis joint undertaking was set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a research agenda for the development of key technologies for embedded computing systems in a wide range of applications, with a view to promoting the union's competitiveness and sustainability and to facilitating the emergence of new markets and the application of technologies of benefit to society.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, as it gives parliament discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. in my view, the purpose of this undertaking is important to define and implement a research agenda for the development of key technologies for embedded computing systems in various fields of application, with a view to promoting the competitiveness and sustainability of the union and to facilitating the emergence of new markets and the application of technologies of benefit to society.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to approve the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for 2013. as the institute has improved its audit instructions and issued updated instructions to kics, institute grantees and improved its procurement procedures and prepared a procurement manual in june 2013, i agree to the discharge of its budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it confirms parliament's discharge for the 2013 budget for the european institute of innovation and technology. in its accompanying observations, parliament notes that the improved instructions have helped to improve the quality of the audit certificates obtained for the 2013 grant operations for which payments were made in 2014. the parliament notes that the institute has improved its procurement procedures since 2013 and has taken an active response to the court's findings of error.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the second report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013. the institute, among others, implemented the following actions: developing a vade mecum on procurement which includes checklists for different procurement procedures and specific contracts under framework contracts, and requiring the procurement function to verify all requests for service before requesting an offer, which provides an additional layer of control.
in writing. ‒ based on the ecsel's assurance, the joint undertaking has made considerable progress in implementing the action plan to address the deficiencies identified by the court. the company's ex post audit strategy was improved in cooperation with the national funding authorities, a dedicated audit reporting format was introduced and the quality of these audits was assessed more systematically. at the same time, information was exchanged on the requirements of financial programmes and examples of best practice. the policy on the management and prevention of conflicts of interest has also been improved and a comprehensive database has been established containing all information related to conflicts of interest and the actions taken to resolve them. since artemis and eniac no longer exist separately, any recommendations related to improvements in audit procedures will have to be implemented by the new ecsel joint undertaking, and it is therefore important to give it time and to provide it with a discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it confirms parliament's discharge for the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. the eniac joint undertaking was established in 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a research agenda for the development of key nanoelectronics technologies in a wide range of applications. the added remarks note that the artemis and eniac joint undertakings were merged in 2014 to create the electronic components and systems joint technology initiative (ecsel jti) for european leadership, which will continue for 10 years. the comments also note that the european court of auditors has indicated that the 2013 annual accounts of the joint undertaking present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2013 and the results of its operations and its cash flow at the end of the year, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, as it approves the closure of the accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 and asks the president to forward this decision to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking, the council, the commission and the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which does not confirm the discharge for the 2013 budget for the eeas and the council. the discharge procedure has been hampered for years by the council's lack of cooperation. the cooperation between parliament and the council is essential for effective budgetary control, but the council continues to refuse to answer parliament's questions. council expenditure would be scrutinised as closely as that of the other institutions. the failure to submit to the council the documents requested by parliament is in particular a violation of the right of citizens of the union to information and transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it does not confirm to the secretary-general of the council that the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2013 has been implemented. in its accompanying remarks, parliament recalls its call on the council to provide progress reports on construction projects and a detailed breakdown of the costs incurred to date. urges the council to provide a detailed written explanation detailing the total amount of appropriations used for the purchase of the 'residence palace', the budget items under which these appropriations were used, the contributions paid so far and the contributions still to be paid; finally, parliament reiterated its call on the council to provide information on its administrative modernisation process, in particular on the specific measures taken to implement it and on the expected impact on the council's budget.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report on discharge 2013: eu general budget – european council and council because it reminds the council of parliament’s call for progress reports on building projects and a detailed breakdown of the costs incurred to date and urges the council to provide a thorough written explanation detailing the total amount of appropriations used in the purchase of the ‘residence palace’ building, the budget items from which those appropriations were drawn, the instalments that have been paid thus far and the instalments that remain to be paid.
in writing. - i voted for this motion on ebola. since march 2014, sierra leone, liberia and guinea have been the victims of the largest ebola epidemics ever recorded. the current ebola crisis has exposed structural weaknesses in several countries and at the same time reminded the european union's decision-makers of the need to stick to their commitment to allocate at least 20% of their public aid to the development of key social sectors, in particular health.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is a report by parliament that seeks to assess the ebola crisis and to draw long-term lessons and identify ways to strengthen health systems in developing countries to prevent future crises. in its report, parliament thus criticises the slow international response to the crisis in its first months, but notes the actions and commitments undertaken by the eu and its member states since march 2014 to help stop the spread of the ebola virus. parliament welcomed the development of a new vaccine in a record time, with 100% efficacy confirmed in the vaccination of persons in guinea since 23 march 2015, and called for the availability of this vaccine at an affordable price for all persons in liberia and sierra leone to be ensured as a matter of urgency. finally, parliament called on all parties concerned, in particular developing country governments, european institutions and international organisations, to draw lessons from the crisis, to take account of the negative impact of imf and world bank structural adjustment programmes on the health sector in developing countries and to develop effective measures to manage international health crises.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report on the ebola crisis: the long-term lessons and how to strengthen health systems in developing countries to prevent future crises. i believe that the european parliament, as always, has made it clear that its task here is to scrutinise the executive, to take on its role as legislator, and lastly to provide a political impetus. i strongly believe that we can insist that the eu should press ahead with its efforts, so that others can follow its example. the eu’s voice must be heard, particularly in this, the year of development.
in writing. the ebola virus outbreak is the largest and most complex in history. the ebola crisis exposed the inefficiencies of most health systems. it is worth noting that past adjustment and reforms and one-sided development policies have contributed to the inefficiency of health systems. it is therefore essential to learn from this crisis and develop effective tools for the management of international health crises and to better coordinate and strengthen health systems in the member states. in addition, the delayed response to this crisis, which was not decisive and did not reflect the scale of the crisis, needs to be self-critically assessed. i support the proposal to set up a permanent european rapid response team which could be relocated as soon as possible. in the future, we cannot afford to make mistakes in tackling such complex challenges, because the consequences are very painful. we must eradicate this disease completely.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to replace car pollution testing. the european parliament has long called for a change in the car emissions control system and for testing to be carried out in real conditions, rather than just in laboratories, as the officially declared pollution and fuel consumption indicators did not correspond to real conditions. the volkswagen scandal only reinforced the ep's fears. the scandal could undermine confidence in the entire automotive industry and it is therefore necessary to speed up the introduction of a new method for testing the emission of engines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it was parliament's response to the recent volkswagen scandal involving falsified car emissions tests. parliament called for a full investigation into the falsification of car emissions tests and for the perpetrators to be punished. the resolution proposes to reform the eu's vehicle emission control system, introduce real-world emissions testing and allow national authorities to revoke the authorisation to operate vehicles that exceed eu emission limits. parliament strongly condemned the fraudulent practices of car manufacturers which had been revealed and regretted the disappointment of millions of consumers and the continuing pollution and damage to human health. the parliament also fears that the scandal could undermine the competitiveness of the eu's entire automotive sector, which contributes to growth, innovation and job creation.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this resolution on emission measurements in the automotive sector because the european parliament considers it regrettable that these excess emissions have caused unnecessary premature deaths, harmful effects on human health, and environmental damage, deplores the serious lack of enforcement of eu internal market regulation and calls on the sector of the automobile industry having engaged in unfair practices to finance and support updates of independent rankings of road vehicles on the basis of environmental performance, among other actions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text. fraudulent behaviour by automobile manufacturers cannot be tolerated and wrong-doers must be held accountable in order not to damage the reputation of the whole european automotive industry. excess emissions of particulate matter and ozone concentrations causing well over 400 000 premature deaths annually must be kept down. to do so, the parliament calls for consideration to be given to an independent eu-level surveillance authority that would oversee the testing and urges the commission to adopt and implement a new real driving emissions test cycle, as well as implementing them to measure not only the nox emissions, but also use it to measure all pollutants.
in writing. i support the motion for a resolution. in particular, the commission should investigate as soon as possible the case of fraudulent emissions measurements by the company 'volkswagen' and extend this investigation to all car manufacturers. in the light of the principle of full transparency, a thorough examination of the role and responsibilities of the commission and the authorities of the member states is necessary. the persons responsible for the damage caused must be identified. the workers should not and cannot be the ones to bear the costs of the manipulation. producers who have breached the requirements of the legislation should be compensated for any subsidies, tax rebates or other financial incentives received on the basis of environmental performance claims. in order to restore consumer confidence, the commission should make available to the public the full study data of the joint research centre, including classified data. i support the proposal to set up an independent eu type-approval authority.
i regard the communication on the macroeconomic conditionality mechanism as important and well-designed, and the draftsman as constructive and responsive to all views. i would point out that the macroeconomic conditionality mechanism is a highly controversial instrument of eu economic governance. the principle that member states' economic mismanagement will be punished by reducing their ability to implement cohesion policy seems strange. this is all the more strange when we realise that the local and regional authorities who implement cohesion policy directly and are closest to each citizen will be the first to suffer as a result of the failures of national governments. we wanted to narrow the scope of the conditionality mechanism. if we cannot reject this mechanism, we must at least ensure that its application is as little detrimental as possible to the union's important objective of cohesion policy.
the question asked when the blue card is raised. ladies and gentlemen, what would you say about the mandatory labelling of all products grown using genetically modified feed?
in writing. although at first sight the commission's proposal seemed attractive to the member states, closer examination of the document revealed that the conditions for the choice of states were very difficult and that the choice of law would be almost impossible to implement. and how do you control what feed or food is brought in from a neighbouring country? as of april 2015, member states may prohibit the cultivation of gm crops. however, member states do not yet have the possibility to ban the import and marketing of gm food and feed. the european commission's proposal was intended to broaden the scope of states' rights, but it did not ensure that states could make good use of the possibility to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory. the document will have to be improved and take account of the european parliament's position.
in writing. the nicholson report raises an important question about the legal regulation of so-called novel foods foods and other products that are being placed on the market for the first time. the revision of the council of europe regulation is a particularly sensible step in this context and undoubtedly necessary to maintain a high level of health protection and consumer interests. scientific and technological progress in recent years has shown that current food ingredient concepts are outdated. it is therefore important that the new provisions take account in particular of the safety aspects of the products, so that no new food is placed on the market without adverse effects on the consumer. information on whether or not the molecular structure of the food has been modified in any way should also be taken into account. this will avoid any confusion about gm products, which i believe must be eliminated from the european food market. in any event, new laws and new concepts cannot become the means for their legalization. another thing to remember is that new legislation cannot be introduced without prior consultation with local producers, experts and other actors in the field, in order to avoid actions that would in any way harm the interests of european farmers, who we are particularly committed to protecting.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016. the eu budget commitments for 2016 will amount to eur 157,4 billion. the main priority of next year's budget is to promote employment. a total of around eur 50 billion is allocated to this objective. the budget will support international exchanges of students, teachers and other staff (erasmus+) and small and medium-sized enterprises (cosme) as well as investments in research (horizon 2020), infrastructure and strategic projects (european infrastructure networks facility, european fund for strategic investments). another budgetary priority is improving reception of refugees, including improving infrastructure, speeding up the processing of applications, and organising language courses. i support the proposal to strengthen the eu's external policy to tackle the causes of the crisis in third countries.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016. the eu budget commitments for 2016 will amount to eur 157,4 billion. the main priority of next year's budget is to promote employment. a total of around eur 50 billion is allocated to this objective. the budget will support international exchanges of students, teachers and other staff (erasmus+) and small and medium-sized enterprises (cosme) as well as investments in research (horizon 2020), infrastructure and strategic projects (european infrastructure networks facility, european fund for strategic investments). another budgetary priority is improving reception of refugees, including improving infrastructure, speeding up the processing of applications, and organising language courses. i support the proposal to strengthen the eu's external policy to tackle the causes of the crisis in third countries.
in writing. more efforts are needed to overcome the weaknesses of the union economy. the budget of the union should be geared to the objective of economic and social cohesion. the budget should help people to get out of poverty. therefore, adequate funding should be provided for the needs of the community. it is necessary to reduce the negative impact of the economic and social crisis. the union budget should be used for wage increases and for investments that create jobs. particular attention shall be paid to social progress and to the preservation and promotion of the potential of each country, as well as to job creation, sustainable use of natural resources and environmental protection. the reductions in funding under horizon 2020 and the european infrastructure networks instrument need to be compensated for. in addition, a plan must be drawn up to move to a single headquarters.
in writing. ‒ since the establishment of the general court, the number of cases brought before it has increased year by year as its jurisdiction has been gradually extended, and this has led to an increase in the number of cases heard before it over time. failure to take the necessary procedural and organisational measures, including the increase in the number of judges of this court, may affect the duration of the proceedings. i supported the council's position to increase the number of judges to 56, that is to say, by two judges nominated by each member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending protocol no 3 on the statute of the court of justice of the european union, because in recent years there has been a permanent increase in the number of cases pending at the general court, reflecting the increased number of admissible classes of action, litigation as a result of the 2004 and 2007 accessions, greater european integration, regulatory acts and trademark applications. because there are not enough judges the duration of proceedings has increased significantly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a derogation from the prohibition on the use of certain gears in the waters off the black sea. these are trawl and gillnet fishing in the black sea, as well as the minimum baseline diameter of red coral colonies, their collection and the tools and equipment used for this purpose. it is important to emphasise, however, that this possibility is exceptional.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it supports the parliament's proposal to grant a temporary derogation from the prohibition on the use of certain gears in the black sea coastal waters. the resolution annexed to the report parliament notes that this provision is of an exceptional nature and that it is not necessary to make any reference to the they take account of the situation in the region as member states have taken measures to allow the necessary tools to be used, as laid down in the relevant csdp instruments. the european parliament, in its resolution of 15 december, welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the agreement to include the application of the principle of subsidiarity, which is a fundamental principle of the treaty. the commission also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union's new financial framework for the period 2007-13 and the european union's new financial framework for the period 2007-13. the commission has already made a number of recommendations to the council in the context of the preparation of future legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted for these provisions for fishing in the gfcm (general fisheries commission for the mediterranean) agreement area because the provisions in article 15a, to be inserted in regulation (eu) no 1343/2011, regarding derogations from the prohibition on the use of certain gear in the coastal waters of the black sea, are of an exceptional nature. we have to take into account the prevailing situation in the region, where member states have put in place measures to allow for the use of the gear concerned in accordance with relevant recommendations from the gfcm.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of rejecting the commission document. at first sight, the commission's proposal was attractive to the member states. the commission proposed to allow member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory, even if these products have been or will be authorised. however, closer examination of the document revealed that the conditions for the choice of states were very difficult, and that the choice of law would be almost impossible to implement. and how do you control what feed or food is brought in from a neighbouring country? as of april 2015, member states may prohibit the cultivation of gm crops. however, member states do not yet have the possibility to ban the import and marketing of gm food and feed. the european commission's proposal was to expand the possibilities for the member states. unfortunately, the experiment was not successful and the document was rejected because it did not ensure that states had the right to make appropriate use of the possibility to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory. the document will have to be improved and take account of the european parliament's position.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 as regards the possibility for the member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory because this legislative act sets out an authorisation procedures to ensure, via a scientific risk assessment, that the placing on the market of the products concerned will not pose a risk to human or animal health or to the environment. every authorisation for placing a product on the market must be duly justified, and the main ground on which such justification can rely is scientific assessment.
in writing. i think it is appropriate to reject the commission's proposal. in particular, the proposal does not meet the requirements of better regulation and transparency. the proposal was not preceded by an impact assessment and the practical implementation aspects of the proposal and in particular its compliance with the rules for the functioning of the eu internal market and the principles of free trade of the world trade organisation were duly assessed. it should be noted that the proposal does not contain any explicit provisions allowing member states to prohibit or restrict gmo food and feed on their territory. in view of this, it must be concluded that the proposal would be very difficult to implement. it would also have a negative impact on the single internal market. it should be noted that no new products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified organisms should be placed on the market and old authorisations should not be renewed until a new offer has been fully agreed.
in writing. ‒ the report by mr la via raises issues of great importance to european farmers, and i voted in favour of it. the reason for this is obvious and should be of interest to food producers. the commission proposed to take account of the changes in genetically modified food and feed in the gmo directive, which entered into force at the beginning of 2015. proposals have emerged that would allow member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory even after the products have been authorised. the protection of european farmers, indigenous crops and natural genetic material is of paramount importance, as it ensures the preservation of natural and organic crops, which in turn has a significant impact on the health of consumers.
in writing. ‒ the implementation of the union's food policy and the guarantee of transparency must ensure a high level of protection of human health and consumer interests and the effective functioning of the internal market. a high level of environmental protection and improvement of its quality are among the objectives of the union as laid down in the treaty on european union. it is important that all relevant union legislation, including this regulation, take account of those objectives. the categories of foodstuffs that are novel foods should be reconsidered, clarified and updated in the light of scientific and technological developments since 1997. categories of food with a new or intentionally modified molecular structure, as well as food produced from animal, plant, micro-organism, fungal or algal cell or tissue cultures, food produced from micro-organism, fungal or algal and food produced from materials of mineral origin should be provided for. in addition, provision should be made for a category covering foodstuffs produced from plants obtained by non-traditional propagation methods where such methods result in a substantial change in the composition or structure of the foodstuffs affecting their nutritional value, metabolism or the concentration of undesirable substances.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on novel foods because i support this review of an outdated and cumbersome 1997 law, with a view to streamlining the procedure for novel food applications and making the authorisation of novel foods easier and faster for businesses and more transparent for consumers, while maintaining a high standard of food safety.
in writing. the effective functioning of the internal market requires a high level of protection of human health, consumer interests and the environment. all novel foods must be based on scientific studies demonstrating that they are safe to consume. in order to protect human health, the placing on the market of nanomaterials intended for human and animal consumption and the use of nanotechnologies in food production should be prohibited throughout the eu until appropriate testing methods for nanomaterials are approved for use. food must not be placed at risk to human health and must not be allowed to be placed on the market if its effects on health have not been investigated. the licensing of food products is a highly sensitive issue for each country and requires extreme caution. the authorisation process for novel and only scientifically tested food should be made faster and cheaper. it should be noted that member states should be allowed to temporarily restrict or suspend the marketing and use of the food or food ingredient concerned on their territory due to a potential risk to human health or the environment.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal on certain emissions into the atmosphere. air pollutants are a major transboundary human health and environmental problem that has a huge impact on all eu citizens and requires urgent action. poor air quality contributes to premature death, disability due to illness and high healthcare costs. in europe, the total external cost of air pollution to society in relation to health is estimated at between eur 330 and 940 billion per year. in addition, there is growing evidence that atmospheric nitrogen deposition changes the natural environment, such as eutrophication and acidification, leading to a decrease in the diversity of surface vegetation, a slowdown in plant growth and an imbalance in nutrition. efforts are being made across the union to reduce air pollution, but most member states are not meeting agreed standards. the commission proposal repeals and replaces the existing national emission limits (nel) directive by setting new limits for emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and non-methane volatile organic compounds in 2020 and 2030.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is the parliament's position on the directive on the reduction of emissions in certain member states. air pollution has recently emerged as a major public health issue on the political agenda a. poor air quality contributes to premature death, disability due to illness, high health costs, lost productivity, lost crops and loss of income. in europe, the total external costs of air pollution to society are estimated to cost between 33 and 40 billion euros per year. in addition, there is growing evidence that atmospheric nitrogen deposits are changing the natural environment, e.g. by reducing the diversity of surface vegetation, slowing plant growth and increasing the risk of disease, as a result of eutrophication and acidification. the eu is also working to reduce air pollution, but most countries are still not doing enough to reduce it. the most difficult part of the proposal is the 2030 targets, which impose different constraints on each member state. the commission has set limits for individual member states on where, in its view, the emission of pollutants can be the most economically viable measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report in order to support the setting of a level playing field, ensuring that installations in all member states make a fair effort to reduce pollution. air pollution currently causes more than 400 000 premature deaths in the eu each year.
in writing. air pollution is harmful to human health and the environment. it is necessary to reduce emissions into the atmosphere, especially in the industrial and energy sectors. however, the new regulation must not create an unreasonably high financial or bureaucratic burden. i do not think that methane and mercury should be included in the scope of this directive. when setting new national emission ceilings for the main types of atmospheric pollutants, it is necessary to assess the efforts already made by member states. scientific applied research is required to assess the extent of pollution and its impact on the environment. the introduction of more environmentally friendly technologies and cleaner production methods and the application of more effective environmental protection measures should also be encouraged.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to improve the functioning of eu citizens' initiatives, to make them more accessible, to remove some of the obstacles that make it difficult for organisers of eu citizens' initiatives to do so. the eu citizens' initiative, which has its origins in the convention, was created as a means of giving european citizens the opportunity to take legislative initiatives. the basic idea of this measure is therefore to ensure that, once operational, it contributes to the social and civic cohesion of society and enhances citizenship in europe, including at cross-border level. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. it is necessary that the commission carry out a thorough review of the eu citizens' initiative in 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is the way parliament expresses its assessment of the european citizens' initiative, which has been in operation for three years. the european parliament considers this to be the first step towards crossborder participation in democratic processes, enabling citizens to interact directly with the eu institutions and to take an active part in shaping european policies and legislation. this measure was complementary to the earlier rights of citizens to petition the parliament and to apply to the european ombudsman. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new eu-funded action plan for the protection of the environment, which is being implemented by the european union. the commission is expected to carry out a thorough review of the eu citizens' initiative in 2016 and, in the opinion of the european parliament, to present a proposal for a directive on the protection of the eu's financial interests. ̇ the question of this measure will be of great importance.
in writing. ‒ my vote was decided by the fact that there are significant deficits which need to be tackled and resolved in order to make the european citizens’ initiative more effective. the citizens’ initiative is an exceptional opportunity for citizens to identify and articulate their aspirations and to ask for eu action, and it must be encouraged and supported by all available means.
in writing. – the european citizens’ initiative (eci) is the first transnational participatory democracy tool that enables citizens to be directly involved in the decision-making processes of the eu, particularly by promoting dialogue between citizens and the eu institutions and contributing to agenda-setting and the framing of issues. however, the eci is far from perfect, as only three of 51 initiatives submitted have received follow-up, and the first successful initiative – right2water – a received response from the commission in march 2014, almost two years after the eci entered into force on 1 april 2012. i strongly welcome the report, which seeks to improve the transparency, public awareness, accessibility and efficiency of this instrument that offers a unique possibility for eu citizens to identify with eu action that has been directly translated from citizens’ aspirations and demands.
in writing. the european citizens' initiative is a unique and innovative european citizens' initiative, which sets the union's agenda for democratic processes and allows citizens to actively participate in projects and processes that affect them. it is noteworthy that no initiative has succeeded in bringing about significant legislative change. it is therefore necessary to ensure that this mechanism functions better. first, the obstacles must be removed. various measures are needed to promote the eu citizens' initiative and to build citizens' confidence in it. in addition, young people should be encouraged to take a more active part in the development of the european project. in the event of a successful citizens' initiative, the commission should be obliged to submit an appropriate legislative proposal. yes, the costs of the initiative proposal must be reduced. i think that the possibility of european citizens' initiatives relating to the primary law of the european union should be considered.
in writing. ‒ i strongly supported the report on strengthening the european citizens' initiative, which aims to make it more citizen-friendly and remove the obstacles that make it difficult. the european initiative is one of the most important instruments of democracy, allowing citizens to interact directly with the institutions of the european union. but it also gives every european citizen the opportunity to actively participate and influence eu legislation. for this reason, the commission should use all possible public communication channels to increase the visibility of the european citizens' initiative. the eu institutions should do much more to publicize this issue in the member states. this will contribute to greater awareness and exercise of citizens' rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted on the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region. eusair is the third eu macro-regional strategy drawing on the lessons and experience of the eu's baltic sea and danube strategies. eusair is a great opportunity for the countries of the region, led by the commission, to work together towards prosperity and sustainable development, and to put economic and political challenges in the past. eusair provides the opportunity to channel investment in a way that delivers results that benefit the whole region. the potential of the adriatic and ionian sea region is considerable and can only be exploited by joint and coordinated efforts of all the countries of the region with the active participation of local and regional authorities. the commission, together with the eib, will have a special role to play in providing guidance and support for the implementation of the strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is the parliament's position on the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region proposed by the commission. macro-regional strategies are a new multi-level governance model and the involvement of stakeholders at eu, national, regional and local levels is essential to ensure their successful implementation and the achievement of their objectives. the previous baltic sea and danube strategies have brought tangible benefits to these regions, demonstrating the success of eu cooperation mechanisms. while there are wide social and economic disparities between the countries involved in the strategy, in particular between eu member states and non-eu countries, there is a growing interest in cooperation and joint action to address the challenges by tapping the potential of the whole region and continuing to work towards synergies. parliament welcomed the commission communication on the european union strategy for the adriatic and ionian sea region and the accompanying action plan.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on an eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region, and i believe that the eu strategy for the region launched by the commission in june 2014 is an opportunity for this macro-region to make regions and countries work more closely together and to develop synergies and joint projects financed by eu funds and the european investment bank.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. cohesion policy is an integral part of this very important strategy aimed at boosting growth and jobs under europe 2020. reducing the disparities between the regions will help less-developed european countries to catch up with the standards of the european economy and help to achieve such overarching goals as the digital single market, the energy union and the single capital market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which sets out the ep's position on the eu's cohesion policy and the forthcoming mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy. cohesion policy accounts for more than one third of the eu budget and is the main instrument for eu investment. this report is the first report by the european parliament on the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy, focusing on the cohesion policy dimension of the strategy. i agree with the need for a timely and comprehensive discussion on the future eu cohesion policy after 2020 and its alignment with the revised future long-term eu strategy and the new mff.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it sets out parliament's position on the eu's cohesion policy and the forthcoming mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy. cohesion policy is the eu's main policy for investment and development, which is aligned with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. today, the eu continues to face the effects of the economic and financial crisis - high unemployment and inequality and a slow recovery. the policy aims to reduce disparities between regions and promote convergence and has a budget of eur 351.8 billion by the end of 2020. unfortunately, it must be acknowledged that progress at eu level towards related objectives, such as combating unemployment, remains limited. stresses that the eu should focus more on sustainable economic growth and development and the creation of decent jobs in order to ensure that its investments deliver long-term benefits. parliament noted that the challenges of further coordination and synchronisation of member states' fiscal policies and structural reforms remained to be addressed to better align national budgetary policies with eu and national objectives relating to growth and jobs, thus supporting the implementation of the strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the cohesion policy and a review of the europe 2020 strategy because cohesion policy accounts for over one third of the eu budget and is the eu’s main investment instrument. it is closely aligned with the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth set out in the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. cohesion policy must be fully aligned with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. it is therefore essential to take the cohesion policy perspective into account when reviewing the strategy. it should be noted that cohesion policy is one of the main instruments for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. ensuring that resources are invested efficiently is essential to support smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the revised strategy must focus more on stronger multi-level governance and a more effective territorial approach. each region must be targeted by specifically tailored strategy objectives to reduce the development gap between the different eu regions, boosting economic growth, market competitiveness and job creation.
in writing. ‒ in today's vote, i supported the report by mr ruas, member of the european parliament, on the revision of the cohesion policy and the europe 2020 strategy, as it is of particular importance for the european union's long-term strategy for growth and jobs. and, most importantly, the report makes recommendations on combating poverty and social exclusion and on increasing funding for education for the younger generation. the pressure exerted by the notification on the commission is fully justified, since future decisions and legislative texts may be delayed without action being planned in advance. and that would directly affect long-term strategies. i would like to emphasise that this action should take account in particular of the population of regions which are economically disadvantaged, since this strategy will be useful when it is used to help bring about a level playing field between economically different member states of the european union.
‒ a stable macroeconomic environment, including high-quality management at all levels, allows for the successful use of european structural and investment (esi) funds. however, objective criteria are needed to assess whether a member state has taken effective action in the use of esi funds. i agree that it is important to respect the principles of proportionality and equal treatment when applying the provisions of article 23 and to ensure a more sustainable and effective cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it sets out parliament's position on certain aspects of the european structural and investment funds and sound economic management. the eu's cohesion policy is an expression of european solidarity, aimed at strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion in the eu and, in particular, reducing regional disparities by promoting balanced and sustainable social and economic development. cohesion policy is also an investment policy, which contributes to the smart, sustainable and inclusive growth of the eu and its member states. good governance and effective public institutions in the member states are crucial for sustainable and long-term economic growth, job creation and social and territorial development, and, conversely, economic and financial unpredictability and legal uncertainty can lead to a decline in public and private investment, thus jeopardising the achievement of the objectives of cohesion policy. however, parliament is very strict about the application of macroeconomic conditions to the provision of structural assistance in the member states. it is unacceptable that regional or local authorities should be penalised for macroeconomic irregularities committed at other levels of administration by reprogramming or suspending the use of funds, thereby worsening their respective economic and social situation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report on european structural and investment funds and sound economic governance because it emphasises the importance of cohesion policy instruments and resources in maintaining the level of european added-value investment in member states and regions for enhancing job creation and improving socio-economic conditions, especially where investment has fallen significantly owing to the economic and financial crisis
in writing. particular attention should be paid to economic governance mechanisms. it should be noted that a stable macroeconomic environment ensures the successful use of the european structural and investment funds. it is necessary to ensure clarity in the mechanisms for implementing the european semester. however, this mechanism should only be used as a last resort within the framework and in strict compliance with the principles of proportionality and equal treatment. any reprogramming in the medium term should be avoided as this process is expensive and difficult to administer. it is essential to ensure that the support provided is properly distributed and used for the implementation of a results-oriented cohesion policy. attention should be drawn to the fact that the suspension of payment appropriations would have a particularly negative impact on economically vulnerable states. furthermore, it would not be appropriate to discontinue funding from eu funds that support education, training and job creation.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i think the implementation of the existing single market legislation in the european semester process is a priority for us. the single market is one of europe’s greatest achievements. in the last 50 years it has generated new opportunities, created jobs and offered greater choice at lower prices for consumers. but the work is far from finished. however, it is very important for us to concentrate on the positives that have been achieved so that we can also look to a positive future. i am also disappointed that the commission did not publish the single market integration report as part of the annual growth survey this year. we should take note of that. the commission should ensure that member states implement the european legislation adopted on the single market, in all its dimensions, and place stronger emphasis on the implementation of existing single market legislation. the european semester process is a perfect tool for that. we should use it more efficiently. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– thank you very much. what i stressed is that there have been a lot of achievements with the single market over the last 50 years. economic growth is not doing great – obviously we know that – and for that we need structural reforms and serious reforms for that to be achieved. i do not think we can have just a financial stimulus from the ecb. so if we all unite and carry out further reforms that are necessary, and member states carry out those reforms, growth rates would be significantly higher.
we will not overcome longterm unemployment unless we can offer the unemployed quality jobs. it is therefore essential to promote investment in quality jobs in the first place. secondly, it is really important to provide some incentives for employers to take long-term unemployed people into these quality jobs. we're not going to get rid of long-term unemployment unless we work patiently and consistently with each individual unemployed person, because these people have lost any motivation to work, they've lost any professional skills, and so they need to be invested in in a very special way. finally, we need to register these people so that we actually know how many there are so that we can work with them. and we need to encourage those same unemployed people to work, not live on welfare. so a lot of questions. the answers are in your hands and in your work.
in writing. the european strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth europe 2020 is based on five key objectives of equal importance. however, progress towards the targets has been mixed, especially with regard to poverty reduction. the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy therefore provides a great opportunity for all of us in the eu's policy-making to refocus on a european model that is fit for purpose for all its citizens. the european union's countries will undoubtedly achieve more and better by acting together to tackle its immediate challenges than by acting alone. if this is not done, the increase in poverty and social exclusion will lead to further alienation and division in our region and will further undermine the idea of a united europe. i would therefore very much like to ask the commission whether it intends to maintain the eu poverty reduction target in the europe 2020 strategy review and classify it by age and sex, or whether it intends to set additional targets, such as reducing child poverty. the latest unicef report reveals shocking numbers of children living in poverty in europe and around the world. unfortunately, the biggest impact on poverty reduction has been the result of reckless austerity, and especially at the expense of children. does the commission not therefore consider that an additional target for reducing child poverty should be set in the context of the europe 2020 mid-term review, as this is the only way to break the cycle of poverty in our europe?
i would like to thank my colleagues for their efforts in bringing this matter before parliament. i would like to draw the commission's attention to another very important sector for which the change in time is obvious. i don't think any farmer has ever explained to a cow why it should be milked an hour earlier or later. for people working in the agricultural sector, the impact of time shifting is very negative because they are dependent on two regimes: one is the biological time of the animals, which we cannot change, and the other is the social time that farmers have to apply when taking the children to school, going to the markets or doing other farm work. i therefore call on the commission to take the initiative and amend this directive and repeal this ...
in writing. ‒ the european police college (cepol) is the agency responsible for training law enforcement officers. cepol is not a traditional training institution, but its training takes place across the eu, mostly through a network of national police training colleges. in march 2013, the commission presented a proposal for a training scheme for law enforcement officers. this training system aims to identify and address the current gaps in the training of law enforcement officials in cross-border matters. it shall apply to all levels of law enforcement officials and shall be based on current training at national and eu level and delivered through modern training tools such as specialised courses, joint training programmes, online learning material and exchange programmes. i support the current proposal for a regulation to modernise cepol's legal framework, to make it compatible with the changes envisaged by the treaty of lisbon (including the role of the european parliament and national parliaments), and to empower it to implement the principles of the training system for judicial officers set out in the aforementioned commission communication.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is the parliament's position on the future regulation establishing the european union agency for law enforcement training (cepol). the eu's internal security needs are constantly changing, and the demands placed on police forces and law enforcement officers are increasing. the right skills will be crucial to meet the challenges ahead and ensure the safety of our citizens. in order to combat the growing threat of transnational and organised crime, it is essential that all relevant national law enforcement authorities operate in an effective and smooth manner across borders. in order to promote and sustain such cross-border cooperation and to increase mutual trust, appropriate training of law enforcement officials is of paramount importance. the european police college (cepol) is the agency responsible for training law enforcement officers. cepol is not a traditional training institution, but its training takes place across the eu, mostly through a network of national police training colleges. cepol has a relatively modest budget and a limited staff structure. this training scheme aims to identify and address the gaps in the current training of law enforcement officials in cross-border matters, by supporting and coordinating the training provided by the european and national centres of excellence.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to increase the transparency of securities financing transactions. the global financial crisis that erupted in 2007-2008 exposed excessive speculative activity, significant regulatory gaps, as well as weaknesses such as ineffective supervision, opaque markets and overly complex products in the financial system. the european union has taken a number of measures to make the banking system more resilient and stable, including stricter capital requirements, better governance rules and supervisory and resolution regimes. the progress made in creating the banking union is also very important. the crisis has also highlighted the need to increase transparency and to strengthen supervision not only in the traditional banking sector but also in the areas of non-bank lending activities, i.e. the shadow banking sector. the new transparency rules require the disclosure of data on the sfts of all market participants both financial and non-financial , including information on the structure of the underlying collateral, whether the underlying collateral may be or has been drawn, and the haircuts applied. in order to minimise the additional operating costs for market participants, the new rules and standards should build on the existing infrastructure and procedures in place in the field of otc derivatives.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it supports the commission's proposal for a regulation on the transparency of securities financing transactions. the global financial crisis has exposed excessive speculative activity, significant regulatory gaps, as well as shortcomings such as ineffective supervision, opaque markets and overly complex products in the financial system. the union has taken a number of measures to make the banking system more resilient and stable, including stronger capital requirements, better governance rules and supervisory and resolution regimes. parliament called for the financial sector to be able to focus on the real economy and not on speculation. in the course of their work on the fight against shadow banking, the financial stability board and the european systemic risk board identified risks posed by securities financing transactions (sfts). in particular, the lack of transparency in the use of the ssmef has prevented regulators and supervisors and investors from properly assessing and monitoring banking-like risks and interconnections in the financial system in the period before and during the financial crisis. therefore, the new transparency rules provided for in this regulation require the disclosure of data on the mmfs of all market participants both financial and non-financial entities , including information on the structure of the underlying collateral, where the underlying collateral can be or has been drawn, and the haircuts applied.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report on transparency of securities financing transactions because making lending and re-use of securities more transparent to foster financial stability without putting an additional administrative burden on the management of funds is necessary for channelling money into the real economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because of the need to increase the security and transparency of the financial markets. it is necessary to prevent abuses and the possibility of transferring activities to the shadow banking sector. in view of the current situation and in order to increase the transparency of securities lending and repurchase transactions, uniform transparency and reporting requirements should apply across the eu. in addition, it is necessary to facilitate the monitoring of the increase in systemic risk associated with the use of sfts. in particular, transaction data should be provided to trade repositories. the competent authorities must be granted direct and immediate access to those data. transparency of contracts for re-leasing activities is required. the new common data reporting and transparency rules and provisions on re-crediting will contribute to strengthening financial stability in the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which assesses the implementation of the recommendations on the mass electronic surveillance of eu citizens. parliament called on the us authorities and the member states to prohibit the mass surveillance of citizens and the processing of large amounts of citizens' personal data, and condemned the reported actions of intelligence services which had seriously damaged the trust and fundamental rights of eu citizens. i regret that too little has been done to protect the fundamental rights of eu citizens. i agree with the requirements for the commission to ensure that all data transferred to the usa is subject to an effective level of protection. both the data protection regulation and the data protection directive are necessary to protect the fundamental rights of individuals and both acts should therefore be considered as a set of acts to be adopted simultaneously in order to ensure that a high level of protection is afforded in all circumstances in the eu for any processing activity.
in writing. ‒ the i voted for this resolution because it is the way in which parliament assesses the follow-up to its recommendations on the follow-up to the mass electronic surveillance of eu citizens, which it made a year ago. in a resolution adopted a year ago, parliament called on the us authorities and member states to prohibit the mass surveillance of citizens and the processing of large amounts of personal data of citizens, and condemned the reported actions of intelligence services which have seriously damaged the trust and fundamental rights of eu citizens. it therefore welcomed the research carried out by the german bundestag, the council of europe, the united nations and the brazilian senate, the discussions in several national parliaments and the work of many civil society actors, which has led to an overall increase in public awareness of mass electronic surveillance. however, it expressed great disappointment at the indifference and reluctance of many member states and eu institutions in general to take seriously the problems identified in the resolution and to implement the specific recommendations contained therein, as well as the lack of clarity towards parliament and the reluctance to engage in dialogue with it. the parliament considered that the commission's lax reaction to the resolution was totally inappropriate in the light of the facts established and called for the action set out in the resolution to be taken by december 2015 at the latest. parliament also recalled that it reserved the right to bring an action for failure to act or to transfer certain budgetary resources to the reserve until the commission had taken appropriate action on all recommendations.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the follow-up to the european parliament resolution of 12 march 2014 on the electronic mass surveillance of eu citizens because i believe that inquiries by the german bundestag, the council of europe, the un and the brazilian senate, the debates in several other national parliaments and the work of numerous civil society actors have contributed to the raising of general awareness regarding electronic mass surveillance. however, i am disappointed by the overall lack of sense of urgency and willingness shown by most member states and the eu institutions in terms of seriously addressing the issues raised in the resolution and implementing the concrete recommendations contained therein, as well as by the lack of transparency towards or dialogue with parliament.
in writing. it should be noted that the mass electronic surveillance of eu citizens is a very serious problem, which is even becoming a culture of mass surveillance. many countries are not addressing the problem well or at all, and this is leading to a loss of cohesion and trust. furthermore, mass electronic surveillance can have very harmful consequences. the intelligence services' surveillance capabilities must not be allowed to be further expanded. it is necessary to ensure that legal frameworks are in conformity with the requirements of the european convention on human rights and all relevant union legislation. the commission must therefore play a more active role in ensuring that national provisions are in line with eu primary and secondary legislation. it is necessary to give proper effect to the right to privacy and the protection of personal data. mass surveillance must be prevented in a democratic society.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to discuss the implementation of the priorities of the european semester for the coordination of economic policies. the objective of the european semester process is to ensure integrated economic policy coordination at eu level through the various macroeconomic and fiscal surveillance tools necessary for managing convergence and interdependence between member states. the economic forecasts for the coming year show signs of recovery, with positive growth rates, rising inflation and an improvement in the overall fiscal position. however, the fundamentals of economic growth are still very fragile. i agree that the main economic policy priorities should be to encourage investment, implement the necessary structural reforms, fiscal responsibility and improve the employment policies of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it expresses parliament's position on the implementation of the priorities of the european semester for economic policy coordination 2015. the european parliament welcomed the fact that economic recovery was gradually picking up speed and that gdp was expected to grow by 1.9% in the euro area and 2.1% in the eu in 2016. however, parliament is concerned that the foundations of recovery are fragile, including the eu's fundamental structural weaknesses and regional economic disparities, which are driving uneven growth and low international competitiveness. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states concerning the lack of transparency in the implementation of the national programmes. the report therefore reiterated the need for a coordinated policy in the union and stressed the importance of implementing country-specific recommendations to ensure a consistent and fair implementation of the economic governance framework in all member states. unfortunately, the lack of implementation of the country-specific recommendations in some member states is hampering the creation of an enabling environment for growth and investment.
in writing. the democratic dimension of the economic governance package needs to be further strengthened. it is worth noting that economic and social disparities are increasing in the eu. one in four people in the world today live in poverty. in addition, excessive current account surpluses pose significant risks that need to be addressed more appropriately. i think that we should consider replacing austerity with a new sustainable and democratic system that allows member states to pursue their own economic policies. in view of the current situation of some states, it would be appropriate to establish an international multilateral system for the recovery of debts owed by states. in addition, consideration should be given to the possibility of revising the treaty to include a reservation on withdrawal from the euro area and to extend the opt-out clause.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to improve the integration of the long-term unemployed into the labour market. as a result of the economic crisis and its consequences, long-term unemployment has doubled since 2007 and now accounts for half of total unemployment, i.e. 12 million people, or 5% of the eu's active population, are long-term unemployed. this proposal encourages a more ambitious effort to register the long-term unemployed with the employment services in order to ensure full accounting; to assess the personal potential and needs of the long-term unemployed and the jobs they would prefer before 18 months of unemployment; and to offer a tailored, balanced and comprehensive reintegration contract between the long-term unemployed and the relevant services no later than 18 months of unemployment. i support calls for member states to coordinate eu funding for national policies to tackle long-term unemployment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution by the committee on employment and social affairs on the integration of the long-term unemployed into the labour market. i am pleased that the commission has finally presented the long-awaited council recommendation on long-term unemployed. of course, council recommendations may not be enough to bring about a rapid improvement in the situation of the long-term unemployed, and it is therefore necessary to encourage member states to achieve concrete results. it is important that any programmes for the reintegration of the long-term unemployed are adapted to the needs of the labour market and developed in close cooperation with the social partners. it is necessary to encourage member states to align eu funding for national policy measures to tackle long-term unemployment, in particular from the european social fund, with corresponding national funding. it is also necessary to encourage member states to motivate employers, including in the spirit of corporate social responsibility, to actively offer job vacancies to the long-term unemployed. cooperation between the commission and the member states and, at national level, between the (sectoral) social partners, civil society organisations representing the unemployed, local and regional authorities, public and private employment services, social and health care providers, local and regional education and training bodies, as well as active involvement of employers, is therefore crucial for the effective implementation of this recommendation, in order to better understand the requirements and needs of businesses.
in writing. the goal of economic policy in each country is full employment. to achieve this, europe should accelerate job creation, boost the economy and ensure social justice. however, the number of longterm unemployed in europe is currently only increasing. long-term unemployment is a particularly complex problem, as even when new jobs are created, it is often difficult for the long-term unemployed to successfully re-enter the labour market. it is therefore essential that these individuals are individually assessed and that a specific and tailored reintegration plan is drawn up. the involvement of the social partners in the preparation, planning and implementation of the council proposal is to be ensured at both eu and national level. employers should be encouraged to participate actively in developing partnerships with public authorities. they should also be offered targeted financial incentives. the financial and administrative capacity of public employment services also needs to be strengthened.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal on the safe use of remotely piloted aircraft systems in civil aviation. in order to ensure the safe use of unmanned aircraft, new proportionate rules are needed to avoid unnecessary burden on the development of this new industry. in the last 15 years, this industry has grown tremendously. drones are used to monitor vast crop fields, in humanitarian disaster zones and to fight forest fires. i agree that it is necessary to ensure that only well-trained operators are allowed to operate unmanned aircraft. in addition, obstacle detection and avoidance technology shall be installed on drones to ensure that the systems of remotely piloted aircraft do not endanger the safety of piloted aircraft and to take into account no-fly zones such as airports and other critical infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it was the report of parliament on the safe use of remotely piloted aircraft systems in civil aviation. these professional-use remotely piloted aircraft systems also offer many benefits in various areas of civil use, with additional benefits increasing with the distance between the aircraft and the remote control. the potential uses of these systems are very diverse and may be further developed in the future: they help, for example, to carry out security checks and to monitor infrastructure (railways, dams and energy installations), as well as to assess natural disasters, to carry out (environmentally responsible) precision farming activities, to develop media production, to perform aerodynamic thermography or to deliver consignments to remote regions. we can anticipate that new applications will be developed rapidly in the near future. the parliament therefore considers that the lack of harmonised regulation at union level may hamper the development of the european remotely piloted aircraft market, as national level authorisations are not generally recognised in other member states. welcomes therefore the fact that the commission's legislative proposal in this area is to be adopted by the end of 2015. new standards for the regulation of civil remotely piloted aircraft systems will be established covering safety, security, privacy, data protection, insurance and liability aspects. the commission is seeking to enable the eu industry to become the global business leader in this emerging technology.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. if the eu is to become a business leader in this emerging technology, action is needed now. only a stable legal framework with a strong enabling effect will enable the eu to compete and create the right conditions for the development of this sector. it is necessary to ensure legal certainty as regards the legal framework. in this context, a clear, harmonised and proportionate european and global regulatory framework needs to be developed. common regulatory standards for the operation of civil remotely piloted aircraft systems covering safety, security, privacy, data protection, insurance and liability aspects shall be established throughout the eu. a high level of safety, security and privacy will ensure public acceptance and trust. it is noted that the new rules must clearly distinguish between the use of remotely piloted aircraft systems for professional and recreational purposes. the regulatory framework shall also ensure that remotely piloted aircraft do not affect the safety and functioning of the wider civil aviation system. their flight safety must be at the same level as that of manned aircraft.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal on new challenges and concepts for promoting tourism in europe. although the forecasts for the number of tourists visiting the eu in the coming year are positive, europe is increasingly having to compete with other destinations in the world, especially emerging ones, which are cheaper to travel to. tourism, like the economy as a whole, is affected by demographic change and youth unemployment. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and the implementation of the new rules. the commission should continue to support with all its strength the overall promotion of europe in third country markets, complementing national efforts to promote tourism with a european and cross-border value. in 2013, 15% of europeans did not use trains because of the difficulty of reaching the platforms and the lack of information. therefore, the necessary improvements in accessibility and special attention to persons with reduced mobility are being taken into account. i support the calls for the commission, the member states, the regions and the institutions responsible for tourism and smes to make the most of the new funding opportunities from the european fund for strategic investments.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is a report which sets out new challenges and concepts for the promotion of tourism. tourism is a key area of potential growth for the european economy, accounting for more than 10% of eu gdp, including tourism-related sectors. tourism also contributes to a high level of job creation, as the sector directly employs 13 million people, representing at least 12% of jobs in the eu. while the forecasts for the number of tourists visiting the eu in the coming year are positive, we must be vigilant about foreign visitors, as europe increasingly has to compete with other destinations in the world, especially emerging ones, which can be visited more cheaply. in addition, some additional challenges require the european tourism sector to adapt quickly in order to maintain its level of competitiveness. the tourism sector is affected by changes in consumer behaviour, by the increased demand for high-quality services for customers and, finally, by the need for businesses to adapt to the digital era, as more than 95% of travellers go online to plan their trip and the number of suppliers in the shared economy is growing. parliament therefore calls on the commission, the member states, the regions and the institutions responsible for tourism, as well as companies, especially smes, to make the most of the new funding opportunities offered by the european fund for strategic investments, in particular through national and regional investment banks, in order to raise eu action in support of tourism to a new qualitative level.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. in view of the development of the tourism sector and its importance for the regions of europe, a separate section on tourism should be established in the next multiannual programme. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection. in order to increase the visibility and competitiveness of european tourist attractions, the 'travels to europe' brand should be created. in particular, the potential and added value of the mark should be analysed and the general objectives clearly defined. it is also essential that a guide to this brand is drawn up. in order to preserve and enhance cultural and natural heritage, sustainable and responsible tourism must become a priority across the eu. we need to do more to improve the competitiveness of the eu tourism industry.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution on the development of satellite technology to enable a global flight tracking system to operate. the tragic events of air france flight af447 (1 june 2009) and malaysia airlines flight mh370 (8 march 2014) have highlighted the need to introduce new systems to detect the position of public transport aircraft at any time, even in remote areas. the use of global air traffic management surveillance systems will facilitate the location of aircraft in the event of abnormal operation, emergency or accident. i support the commission's efforts to rapidly develop a global flight tracking system based on results, which would allow air navigation service providers to locate public transport aircraft at any time, even in remote areas. such a system should not be affected by the loss of normal electrical power on board the aircraft and should not be capable of being switched off in flight.
in writing. the increase in aircraft volumes is accompanied by the need to improve and introduce new systems to detect the position of public transport aircraft at any time, even in remote areas. it is essential to ensure that the systems do not suffer any disruption in the event of a failure of the normal power supply to the aircraft. in addition, there should be no possibility to deactivate them in flight. it is noted that ads-b technology, based on communication between aircraft and satellites, is one of the promising opportunities for the development of a global air traffic control surveillance system. however, any change to a system that directly affects air transport poses a significant safety risk, regardless of the type of aircraft. it is therefore essential to ensure the interoperability of alternative technologies when implementing the new system. it should be noted that the security and accuracy of radio communication are of great importance both for the period of system integration and for the fully operational system. therefore, in order to avoid any interference, the new technology must be allocated to the appropriate radio frequency band.
mr president, since everyone is talking about portugal, i will just put in my two cents as well. i think social democrats across europe are in shock that a modern party has formed an alliance with the extreme left and the communists and people who are against nato. europe is in great danger, and i hope that you will take responsibility for your actions and that, in a few years from now, you will take responsibility and own up to what you have done. i think you have acted in bad faith. commissioner, i welcome the streamlined european semester process, but i will never get tired of repeating that the single marketplace is of major importance in growth creation. we really need to make it happen. we need a single market pillar in the european semester. i will be very specific: we need to press for full implementation of the services directive. services can really bring us a lot of benefits. structural reforms of products, services and labour markets in member states are what will get us out of the crisis: better-functioning, less bureaucratic and more digital public sectors.
in writing. as white helmets day, the day to commemorate violence against women, approaches, we must once again call on the commission to ensure that the daphne programme is implemented and adequately funded. the daphne programme aims to prevent all forms of violence against children, young people and women, as well as violence against other groups at risk, in particular those at risk of violence by relatives, and to protect the victims of such violence. violence in its various forms is present throughout the european union and has severe consequences for the physical and psychological health of victims and for society as a whole. addressing this problem and protecting victims requires strong political will and concerted action, based on the methods and results of the daphne programmes. action to combat violence against women contributes to the promotion of equality between women and men. since their launch in 1997, the daphne programmes have been very successful, popular with stakeholders (government and academic institutions and non-governmental organisations (ngos)), and the projects funded are effective. it is therefore important that the programme continues to link the daphne name to the specific objective of preventing and combating violence against children, young people and women, so that the daphne programmes continue to be as visible as possible. so how does the commission intend to achieve the objectives of the previous daphne programmes in the new rights, equality and citizenship programme? how does the commission intend to ensure adequate funding for the prevention of violence and at the same time support for victims of violence?
yesterday, lithuanian milk producers and consumers handed me a petition from over five and a half thousand people and asked me to forward it to the european parliament. it provides suggestions on how to start regulating the milk market, which is experiencing difficulties following the abolition of the milk quota system, and also helps to avoid future crises. lithuanian milk producers also demand that the losses caused by the russian embargo be taken into account and that a uniform system of compensation be established. the same is true of the requirement to support and encourage cooperation between milk producers. i would urge my colleague and the other institutions to take a stand on the dairy sector and to act more quickly to take effective decisions.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which establishes a programme for solutions for the interoperability of european public administrations, businesses and citizens (isa 2). this is done to take into account the obvious technological developments, the new needs of administrations and civil society and the new possibilities of cloud computing. interaction between institutions and businesses is increasing the quality of public services and is creating the conditions for greater competitiveness of businesses and greater satisfaction of citizens. it is a major ally in europe's strategy for growth and jobs. it also contributes to the creation of a digital single market and to the implementation of an ambitious, world-leading and socially inclusive digital agenda for europe. i support the proposals to create a common semantic framework to link public administrations with each other and with other sectors. it is important to create a repository of solutions and standards for direct use by administrations or for incorporation into new projects and to create a one-stop-shop platform of best practices. it is also necessary to protect the privacy and security of data and to simplify administrative procedures.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it expresses parliament's position on the future modernisation of public sector interaction. parliament gave a broadly positive assessment to the commission's proposal for a programme of solutions for the interoperability of european public administrations, businesses and citizens (isa 2). however, it pointed out that the preparation for the new phase of this programme must take into account the obvious technological developments, the new needs of administrations and civil society and the new possibilities of cloud computing. the inclusion of businesses and citizens in the isa 2 targeted list is an important sign of progress and the commission should therefore set out the criteria to be used in the implementation and evaluation of the programme, not only from a supply perspective but above all from a demand perspective, i.e. taking into account the capacity of the public sector to modernise in order to meet the needs of civil society more effectively and efficiently. interoperability is increasing the potential quality of public services and is creating the conditions for greater competitiveness of enterprises and greater satisfaction of citizens. it is therefore a powerful ally in europe's strategy for growth and jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a programme on interoperability solutions for european public administrations, businesses and citizens (isa2) interoperability as a means for modernising the public sector. this continues the approach pursued to date, exemplified most obviously in the isa programme – still in force – on interoperability solutions for european public administrations, while also marking the start of a new phase in which technological advances, the new needs of administrations and civil society, and the new opportunities offered by cloud computing will have to be taken into account. interoperability is increasingly enhancing the potential quality of public services and creating an environment in which businesses can become more competitive and citizens can obtain greater satisfaction. it allows european growth and better job strategy.
in writing. ‒ the i agree with the communication on the monitoring of the implementation of the isa2 programme, as well as its evaluation provisions. greater efforts should be made to modernise the public sector, make it more efficient and transparent and improve public services. in particular, it is important to ensure close cross-border and cross-sectoral interaction and to improve people's access to digital services in the public sector. this programme will ensure the more efficient delivery of interactive digital services. it will also facilitate closer cooperation between public administrations and increase public confidence in public administrations. this programme will help to boost productivity, competitiveness and growth. it is worth noting that the european parliament needs to play a greater role in the implementation and evaluation process in order to promote good governance and contribute more effectively to the implementation of the digital agenda for europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to reform the european parliament elections. discussions on e-voting are taking place not only in lithuania but also across the european union. i supported the amendments to allow eu citizens to elect the european parliament even more efficiently electronic voting is planned. i believe that this will improve the conditions for lithuanian citizens to express their political will in the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted on this report, which amends the european union's electoral law. the possibility of establishing a uniform electoral procedure based on direct universal suffrage has been enshrined in the treaties since 1957. the reform of the european parliament election procedure should aim to strengthen the democratic and cross-border dimension of elections to the european parliament, the democratic legitimacy of the european union's decision-making process and the concept of eu citizenship, and to improve the functioning of the european parliament and the governance of the eu. the reform of eu electoral law also aims to increase the legitimacy of the european parliament's activities, to ensure greater respect for the principles of equality and equal opportunities in elections, to increase the efficiency of the system for preparing elections to the european parliament and to bring members of the european parliament closer to voters, especially the youngest ones. moreover, an effective harmonisation of the european parliament election procedure in all member states would better promote the exercise by all citizens of the european union of their right to participate in the democratic life of the eu on an equal footing, while strengthening the political dimension of european integration.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the reform of parliament’s electoral procedure should aim to enhance the democratic and transnational dimension of the european elections and the democratic legitimacy of the union decision-making process. we need to improve the functioning of the european parliament and the governance of the union, make the work of the european parliament more legitimate, and bring members of the european parliament closer to their voters, especially young people.
in writing. ‒ we must preserve europe as a community of peoples and free and independent states. we cannot allow it to be destroyed. the sovereign rights of the member states shall not be infringed. elections must be conducted in a fair and honest manner, without prejudice to the autonomy and independence of states. i do not support the idea of centralization and federalism in the eu. the proposal for a single electoral district in all eu countries is therefore unacceptable. the european union must find the courage to change so that its institutions truly represent the interests of the citizens of the member states. democracy should not be just an empty word with a completely different meaning, it should really be the rule of the people. we must therefore restore democratic control and public confidence. it is necessary to ensure the implementation of the principles of equal opportunities for political parties and fair elections.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to reform the european aviation sector. the european aviation sector generates 5 million jobs and 365 billion euros, or 2,4% of european gdp. liberalisation of the sector has led to an increase in the number of airlines, the introduction of new routes, increased competition, the reduction of fares and the encouragement of air travel. at the same time, air pollution has increased and airports are overcrowded. the european commission is to present an aviation package by the end of 2015 to boost the competitiveness of the european aviation industry. i agree that the main objectives should be to make the growth of the european aviation industry more sustainable and competitive, to strengthen european airlines, airports and the aeronautical industry, to ensure a level playing field in the global market and to have a long-term strategy for the european aviation sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is parliament's response to the aviation package that the commission is planning to present by 2015 to identify and address the challenges facing the eu aviation sector. parliament therefore considers that the aviation package should stimulate the much-needed growth of a more sustainable and competitive european aviation industry, strengthen european airlines, airports and the aeronautics industry, ensure a level playing field in the global market and set out a long-term strategy for the european aviation sector. parliament also stressed that the aeronautics industry is a major contributor to eu economic growth and job creation and is closely linked to the competitiveness of the eu aviation sector (e.g. by ensuring a positive export balance, developing cleaner technologies for european aircraft, developing the sesar programme, creating the single european sky, ensuring the chain of custody). it generates an annual turnover of some eur 100 billion and provides some 500 000 direct jobs, and therefore called for an active aviation policy aimed at supporting and developing the aeronautical industry.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the resolution on the future aviation package because i believe it should provide a much needed boost for the european aviation industry, improve the competitiveness of the sector, lead to a level playing field and set out a long-term strategy for europe’s aviation industry. the resolution emphasises that the aeronautics industry is a major contributor to eu growth and jobs and is closely linked to competitiveness in the eu aviation sector, generating a turnover of around eur 100 billion per year and sustaining some 500 000 direct jobs.
in writing. ‒ the i voted for this resolution. in particular, the new aviation package should foster the growth of a more sustainable and competitive european aviation industry. it would also strengthen european airlines, airports and the aeronautical industry and ensure a level playing field in the global market. the new regulation must ensure that the aviation sector is competitive, clean and safe and meets the needs of citizens and society. the aviation industry is a growing sector with highly qualified professionals. in this context, it is essential that the new set of documents include social provisions and establish the necessary safeguards and a widely applied collective bargaining practice. it should be noted that innovation is a prerequisite for the competitiveness of the european aviation industry. it is also essential to remove the excessive burden on european airlines at eu and national level. in view of the international dimension of the aviation sector, greater attention should be paid to the negotiation of comprehensive aviation agreements with the eu's main trading partners.
member of the commission.– madam president, i have listened very carefully and with close attention to your interventions on this important subject, and i share your view that the european union should continue to be active on animal welfare. i hear different approaches and proposals: for a framework animal welfare law, a new animal strategy, or a european union platform for animal welfare with strong enforcement, or a situation to evaluate today’s strategy. all those options have been and are being discussed in my cabinet and with the services, and we have decided to start with a eurobarometer survey. this is not only a matter of interest for the general public but is also about creating added value – innovation enclosed in the european union food chain – and therefore concerns a wide range of stakeholders. in the light of the completion of the european union strategy on animal welfare, new information will become available in 2016 that could allow a response to the many varied yet legitimate expectations of european union citizens and stakeholders. in addition, proper enforcement of the european union acquis will continue to be a key priority. a study to be completed soon, and the result of the next eurobarometer survey, will also look at what role responsible education and information to citizens can play in this regard. with the forthcoming adoption of the proposal on official control, the european union will have the opportunity to create european reference centres for animal welfare, giving a strong impetus for promoting the issue among stakeholders. furthermore, i believe that european union animal production must seek to profit from its advantageous position as a world leader on animal welfare to drive forward this trend and to further explore markets, calling for high standards for animal welfare. i am looking forward to the resolution of this parliament. in conclusion, let me reassure parliament that the commission takes animal welfare issues very seriously. we will continue to work on integrating these issues into the wider perspective for the future of the european union food chain.
in writing. the debate on a european animal welfare strategy is important in several respects. on the one hand, it is good that we europeans, even in the context of terrorist attacks, can discuss specific aspects of the future of europe. it is also a pity that the important issue of animal welfare, which is directly linked not only to values but to the stomach of almost every european, is only dealt with late on monday evenings. as regards the document under preparation, i would like to ask the honourable commissioner how the commission intends to ensure that all the measures foreseen for the welfare of the population in the period 2016-2020 are implemented in the new strategy. if i am not mistaken, only five of the 19 measures envisaged in the current strategy have been fully implemented. after all, this issue affects not only the welfare of the animals but also the quality of the food! the second point i would like to draw your attention to is the subject of the question itself. we are discussing the regulation of animal welfare, particularly the welfare of domestic animals used for food. but have we not been thinking that by being too involved in regulating animal welfare, we are not paying enough attention to the welfare of the animal industry itself? in fact, in at least a few member states, including cases such as pig farming or dairy farming, in my country - lithuania - individual agricultural sectors are successfully approaching the brink of extinction, both because of the market crisis, because of unfair commercial practices, and because of the gaps in national or european regulation, and there is no need to save while there is still something to save.
the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. the energy report tries to convince us that the european union is still trying to speak with one voice on energy matters, but the reality is quite different. europe has indeed moved away from this objective in its common commitment to tackling energy problems, and since the summer has been much more concerned with how to meet the interests of individual european states. but, gentlemen, the problem has not disappeared once we have stopped talking about a two-speed europe in public. it is this faster europe that is looking after its own interests today, rather than a single energy policy. for example, the agreement with russia on a new gas pipeline from the bottom of the baltic sea, called nord stream 2. the five european companies from germany, austria, the united kingdom, france and the netherlands concluded the agreements back in june. in september, contracts were signed for the establishment of the 'new european pipeline' joint undertaking, which will implement the project to extend the pipeline over a thousand kilometres. can we talk about a single european energy market after such decisions? who are considered idiots: members of the european parliament, members of the national parliaments of the member states of the community or all the inhabitants of the member states of the community who speak one language and are treated in the opposite way? i suggest that the european commission and the european parliament both move as quickly as possible away from such possible misunderstandings and not only clearly define european energy priorities, but also adhere to them.
i think you will all agree that unity, solidarity and speaking with one voice in relations with third countries must be the basic principle of the european union's energy policy. these values must be the basis for the energy union. the energy union will only be strong if projects such as nord stream 2 are assessed holistically. this will be done as a precaution, rather than after the pipelines have been built and are operational, increasing the eu's dependence on a single gas supplier. citizens of the european union, especially those in central and eastern europe, believe in the european union and its unity. projects such as nord stream 2 can seriously undermine this belief. we therefore expect and demand that the commission take swift and decisive action in this case to confirm that the vision of the european energy union is not just empty words.
despite the important decisions taken in the past in the energy sector, many complex challenges remain before the full integration of electricity and gas networks is achieved. the commission's report highlights the importance of important projects in the baltic region that will end the isolation of the baltic gas markets. welcomes the klaipėda lng terminal and its role in creating a supply alternative for the baltic gas market for the first time in history. however, i would like to point out that lithuania built the klaipėda terminal independently, without direct support from the european union. this project was not included in the list of strategic sites, although it is in essence a strategic site for the whole region. but, of course, for lithuania alone, this is a costly project, but lithuania did not want to be dependent on one gas source from the east for another 15 years and pay 30% more, according to previous commission proposals, but wanted greater energy security and achieved its own. this is in line with the objectives of the energy union and, for the sake of fairness, european financial support should be provided for this project, not just political support. i also want to ask why the baltic region is trying to reduce its dependence on russian gas, while parts of the european union are increasingly clinging to the russian gas supply network? commissioner, although you say that nord stream 2 is a project of common interest, commercial projects must also meet the european union's energy objectives. dependence on gas does not mean dependence on electricity reduction. the european commission should make proposals for the development of additional electricity generation capacity in the member states, as there is a question of whether the networks we build will in future become a route for even more imports from ... (talk is closed).
in writing.– since the adoption of the energy union framework strategy, huge progress has been made towards achieving a genuine energy union among member states. however, lack of unity in political decision-making in terms of external energy supply is threatening the energy union’s future, and we need to be extremely cautious about plans such as the nord stream ii gas pipeline, which would further advance eu’s dependency on russia. if we want to diversify europe’s energy sources, member states need to show a stronger political will to reduce energy dependence from the east as both its political and economic costs are unpredictable. in my opinion, the future of the energy union relies on ensuring not only affordable and environmentally friendly but also secure energy for eu citizens.
in writing. - i voted for this motion to repeal the obsolete legislation.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because the purpose of this regulation is to repeal certain acts of the european union which are no longer relevant and which form part of the schengen acquis. in view of the expiry of the transitional period provided for in the protocol on transitional provisions annexed to the treaties, the commission has assessed the schengen acquis and legal instruments in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. several acts were found to be obsolete because their content had been carried over into later acts or were of a temporary nature. after consulting the ep legal service and taking into account the amendments proposed by the council in its general approach to this commission proposal, the european parliament proposes to change the legal form of the act from a decision to a regulation. this regulation is binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all member states and will better serve the purpose of the proposal to repeal legislation considered to be obsolete.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain acts in the areas of freedom, security and justice because i believe that improving the transparency of union law is an essential element of the better law-making strategy that the institutions of the union are implementing. it is appropriate to remove those acts which no longer serve any purpose so as not to cause any confusion for the implementation.
in writing. - i voted for this motion to repeal the obsolete legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which supports the repeal of certain acts relating to police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters (schengen acquis). in view of the expiry of the transitional period provided for in the protocol on transitional provisions annexed to the treaties, the commission has assessed the schengen acquis and the legislation relating to police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. several acts have been found to be obsolete because their content has been carried over into later acts or because they are of a temporary nature. in line with the relevant amendment proposed in the council's general approach, which was endorsed by the commission, the european parliament proposes to include the decision of the executive committee on the agreement on cooperation in the conduct of procedural actions in the event of infringements of road traffic rules in the list of repealed acts. the reason for the annulment of the present decision is that the agreement has never entered into force and no member state has made a declaration on the application of the agreement between the states which have ratified it. moreover, it cannot be considered an internal act of the schengen acquis, since it was not concluded by member states alone, but also by two third countries (iceland and norway).
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain acts in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. i believe that if acts adopted in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, and belonging to the schengen acquis, are no longer relevant due to their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by successive acts, they should be repealed.
in writing. increasing the transparency of union law is a crucial element of the better law-making strategy implemented by the union institutions. in view of this, it is appropriate to remove from the existing legislation those acts which have become inaccurate.
in writing. ‒ the commission has assessed the schengen acquis and legislation relating to police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. several acts have been found to be obsolete because their content has been carried over into later acts or because they are of a temporary nature. i support the proposal to reduce the number of union acts and to simplify them, including by repealing obsolete acts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which supports the repeal of certain legislation on police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. on the basis of the verification carried out and in accordance with the provisions of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making and on the quality policy for regulation, the commission has proposed the repeal of seven council joint actions, the content of which has been transposed into subsequent acts, and of council act 1999/c 26/07 laying down the staff regulations of europol. the latter only applies to a very limited number of employment contracts concluded before the adoption of council decision 2009/371/jha on europol. only a few such agreements are still in force and will soon be no longer in force. the european parliament's report also contains amendments to improve the drafting of the act, an amendment to clarify the uk's position on its decision under article 10 (4) of protocol no 36 and a new recital on the basis of the use of a regulation as a legal instrument to repeal certain legal acts whose legal basis requires the adoption of a directive after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain acts in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters because it is appropriate to remove from the legislation in force those acts which no longer serve any purpose for legal certainty and clarity.
some of the legislative acts in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters have lost their relevance as a result of their content being transposed into subsequent legislation, but they have not been repealed.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to ensure the full participation of the eu in the ccsbt. the ccsbt is the extended commission of the convention for the conservation of australian tunas. the eu would become a full member of the ccsbt enlarged commission instead of a cooperating but non-member entity of the ccsbt enlarged commission, following the signature of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on the agreement between the european union and the australian tuna commission. the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) is a priority for the european union. iccat is responsible for the conservation of tuna and tuna-like species in the atlantic ocean and adjacent seas. this organisation was established by the plenipotentiary conference which drew up and adopted the international convention for the conservation of atlantic tunas, signed in rio de janeiro in 1966. following ratification of the convention, the commission for the conservation of australian tunas (ccsbt) officially came into being in 1969 as a regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) responsible for the management of the australian tuna stock in all waters. the convention for the conservation of australian tunas entered into force on 20 may 1994. since 2006, the european union has been a cooperating but independent entity of the enlarged commission of the ccsbt. the catches of bluefin tuna by the eu fleet in the bluefin tuna area consist mainly of small quantities of bluefin tuna caught as bait in the iotc convention area for bluefin tuna and related species. since 2006, the eu has applied an annual quota of 10 tonnes to the catch of bluefin tuna in ccsbt waters.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt) concerning the membership of the union in the extended commission of the convention. the eu, in accordance with its commitments under the united nations convention on the law of the sea of 10 december 1982 relating to the conservation and management of straddling fish stocks and highly migratory fish stocks, has been cooperating very actively with all regional fisheries organisations in a bid to contribute to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. - i'm in favor of this deal. it is essential that the eu becomes a full member of the extended commission of the convention for the conservation of bluefin tuna and acquires voting rights. it should be noted that the european union pursues an active policy of participation in all regional fisheries organisations in order to contribute to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the eu has an interest in contributing effectively to the implementation of the convention as vessels flying the flag of eu member states fish for stocks in the area of distribution of the bluefin tuna. moreover, membership of the organisation would contribute to the consistent application of the principle of conservation across the oceans and would consolidate the commitment to the long-term conservation and sustainable use of fisheries resources worldwide.
in writing. ‒ the european union, in addition to the commitments set out in the 1982 united nations convention on the law of the sea relating to the conservation and management of highly migratory and highly migratory fish stocks, pursues a very active policy of participation in all regional fisheries organisations in order to contribute to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. therefore, the conservation of tuna-related and related species in the atlantic ocean and adjacent seas is desirable and deserves support.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to update the rules on insurance intermediation in order to ensure greater protection for insurers, to prevent the provision of incorrect and misleading information and to harmonise the requirements for the provision of insurance services. the new rules stipulate that all insurers must be registered with the competent authorities of the eu countries in which they are resident and that insurance company staff must be appropriately trained. before signing the contract, policyholders will have to receive standard, unambiguous information on the identity of the agent selling the insurance, the type of insurance, the obligations of the purchaser, the risks covered, the premiums, the price of the contract, etc. to protect customers from the insolvency of insurance intermediaries, insurers will be obliged to ensure that 4% of annual premiums, but not less than eur 18 750, are always freely available.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on the distribution of insurance products. insurance products may be distributed by various persons or institutions, such as agents, brokers and bank insurance operators, insurance companies, travel agents and car rental companies. the uniform approach to operator and customer protection requires that all those persons or institutions are covered by this directive. this directive aims at minimum harmonisation only and should therefore not prevent member states from maintaining or adopting more stringent provisions in order to protect consumers, provided that such provisions are compatible with european union law, including this directive. consumers must enjoy the same level of protection despite the different distribution channels. in order to ensure that consumers are afforded a uniform level of protection and that consumers benefit from comparable standards, in particular in the area of disclosure, it is important to create a level playing field for distributors.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the supplementary report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on insurance mediation because it means member states shall ensure that competent authorities monitor the insurance and reinsurance markets, including the market for ancillary insurance products which are marketed, distributed or sold in, or from, their member states.
in writing. ‒ the i agree with the updated insurance intermediation rules presented. in particular, these rules will ensure greater protection for insurers and harmonise the requirements for the provision of insurance services. in order to prevent the provision of incorrect and misleading information, standard, unambiguous information on the identity and contacts of the agent selling the insurance, the type of insurance, the buyer's obligations, the risks covered, the exemptions and premiums, and the total contract price should be provided to the persons purchasing the insurance before the contract is signed. particular attention should be paid to the protection of clients, in particular in the event of insolvency of insurance intermediaries. in this context, i support the proposal to oblige insurers to ensure that 4% of annual premiums, but not less than eur 18 750, are always freely available. it is also necessary to provide for penalties which are proportionate and adequate to the infringements and damage foreseen.
in writing. ‒ in today's vote i supported the werner langen report on the objective of ensuring a uniform level of protection for customers, irrespective of the channel through which they purchase an insurance product, i.e. irrespective of the insurance company or insurance agent. the scope of this directive should be extended to other market participants that sell insurance products as non-core products, such as travel agents and car rental companies, unless they fulfil the conditions of the exemption. because when we make and enforce insurance laws, we must first and foremost be guided by the well-being of the people who benefit from insurance, not the temporary interests of the company. we have to follow the rule: first the human, in this case the customer.
in writing. in order to ensure that consumers are afforded a level playing field and that consumers benefit from comparable standards, particularly in the area of disclosure, it is important to create a level playing field for distributors.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to encourage eu countries to take a more active role in tackling child poverty, which has been exacerbated by the economic crisis. statistics show that some 26 million children in the eu are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. in 2014, the highest numbers of children at risk of poverty were in romania (51%), bulgaria (45,2%) and hungary (41,4%). in lithuania, the rate was slightly above the eu average last year, at 28.9%. the proportion of children at risk of poverty in lithuania decreased by several percentage points compared to the period 2010-2013. i agree that member states must increase the quantity and effectiveness of support and social rights initiatives specifically targeted not only at children but also at parents and encourage the use of labour laws that ensure social protection for families and combat low-quality work. i support calls for member states to provide the necessary subsidies to guarantee the right of all children to culture, sport and leisure.
in writing. ‒ the i voted for a very important report on the fight against extreme child poverty. the paradox is that in the european union, the most developed continent, more than one in four children live in poverty, and in many countries poverty is more threatening to children than to adults. i am therefore convinced that we need new concrete measures, as proposed by myself and the socialist group. we urge the commission and the member states to create a child guarantee, under which every child in poverty can receive free health and childcare, education, decent housing and adequate nutrition. this could be a similar measure to the youth employment initiative already in place. i am pleased that today the majority of the european parliament voted in favour of the child guarantee. to reduce child poverty, we need to create a special eu budget for this, because without money we can't do anything. now we have different measures to reduce child poverty, but they're not coordinated, and most of the time, the money from the funds is going to other areas, and there's just no money left to invest in children. so we need to fight poverty at the youngest age, so that all children have equal opportunities and are not doomed to poverty. if we provide these opportunities from an early age, there is a good chance that we will avoid massive youth unemployment in the future and will not need to develop additional measures to combat it.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report on reducing inequalities with a special focus on child poverty since this is a very sensitive issue. i strongly believe that all member states should put their best efforts to combat child poverty. member states when using european structural and investment funds (esif) resources and developing social policies, should devote greater attention to protecting families (especially single-parent families) with children with health problems, against poverty. it is of utmost importance to invest in sensible child—welfare policies that support the development of empowered individuals, capable of integrating into society and into the labour market, rather than focusing on the consequences of their social exclusion and poverty.
in writing. - i voted for this report. child poverty is a multifaceted social problem and requires particular attention to address it. measures to monitor the implementation and impact of the different policies need to be identified and implemented in order to reduce and prevent child poverty and social exclusion and to promote child welfare. it is noteworthy that despite economic growth, the percentage of people living in poverty has not decreased. it is therefore necessary to address child poverty as soon as possible, which has long-term or irreversible consequences for the children themselves and for society. children raised in poverty are more likely to be poor themselves. it is therefore essential to ensure that children from poor families do not fall into the 'poverty trap'. they must be given the opportunity to move up the social ladder from poverty. children of all ages should receive free, inclusive and quality public education and training. we need to break the cycle of poverty, reduce social fragmentation and social tensions.
in writing. ‒ the i support the report by mr zuber for several reasons. all the available reports point to an intensification of child poverty in europe. between 2008 and 2012, europe saw an increase of almost one million children at risk of poverty or social exclusion. the percentage of children living in absolute and long-term poverty (more than 3 years) is dramatically increasing. social inequalities are passed on from generation to generation, and the negative effects of poverty and social exclusion can last for a lifetime for children, because cognitive and socioeconomic skills are developed during the first years of life, which means that today's unfavourable policy actions will have negative consequences for the lives of these people and for society as a whole. member states should therefore be encouraged to invest more in actions to combat child poverty. we should do so in the light of europe's christian roots.
in writing. child poverty is increasing alongside social inequalities. social inequalities translate social disadvantages from generation to generation and the negative impact of poverty and social exclusion on children can last for a lifetime, as children develop their cognitive and economic and social skills early in life, which means that negative policy measures taken today will have irreversible negative impacts on their lives and on society. poverty is multifaceted and must be understood not only as the inability to meet a child's basic needs, such as food, clothing and housing, but also as the lack of access to education and quality health care and the inability to participate in sports, culture and other leisure activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. i believe that the eu has a very powerful instrument at its disposal able to significantly improve the situation of marginalised communities. therefore, we need to adjust the legislation in the way that it would facilitate the path for using eu structural funds as well to support the empowerment processes of marginalised communities and groups. only this way we can effectively tackle inequality and ensure territorial and social cohesion in the regions.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to address the problem of marginalised communities and to support their economic, social and territorial inclusion. marginalisation is a social phenomenon where individuals or communities are socially excluded and prevented from participating in social and political processes. the sharp reductions in public spending during the crisis have exacerbated existing problems in the member states, i.e. increased unemployment, reduced social protection, housing shortages and a lack of public health services. i agree that in addressing the problems of integration of marginalised groups, it is necessary to focus on specific target groups without excluding other people in a similar socioeconomic situation. it is important to ensure the proper implementation of the code of conduct for partnerships, which seeks to ensure equal participation and representation of stakeholders. the funding does not always take into account the real needs of the beneficiaries and it is therefore important to move to quality control in order to achieve long-term and sustainable results in the actions undertaken.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because cohesion policy is one of the european union's strongest tools to help combat inequalities and promote territorial and social cohesion in its regions. in societies across europe, there are groups and communities facing structural exclusion and isolation from the majority of society and lacking access to even basic public infrastructure and services. they are also disproportionately affected by poverty, unemployment and poor health conditions. the sharp reductions in public spending during the crisis have exacerbated existing problems in the member states, such as increased unemployment, a lack of social protection, housing shortages and a lack of public health services. the crisis has therefore had a direct negative impact on members of marginalised communities. in addition, many municipalities continue to face strict budgetary constraints that prevent them from adequately addressing the problem of social exclusion in society. nevertheless, the member states are largely responsible for changing the situation of marginalised communities. while specific national circumstances, needs and solutions vary widely across europe, the goal of social cohesion calls for a european role in the implementation of multi-pronged policies, i.e. the inclusion of marginalised communities.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report on cohesion policy and marginalised communities because the economic crisis has increased poverty and social exclusion in the regions and we should combat that with cohesion policy which is aimed at enhancing economic, social and territorial cohesion, reducing social disparities, including the reduction and eradication of poverty and exclusion, which calls for the prevention of segregation and for the promotion of equal access and opportunities for all citizens, including the most marginalised communities as well as groups and individuals of all ages facing poverty and social exclusion and lacking access to education, employment, housing and healthcare systems.
in writing. ‒ first, the eu must have a uniform definition of marginalised communities in the eu. marginalized communities need to become active and inclusive. it is therefore necessary to encourage and support initiatives in these communities that are also aimed at their well-being, and to help them to implement them. the cohesion policy plays a special role in this area and is a very effective instrument. but very often, marginalised communities are excluded from the benefits of european cohesion policy. this does not ensure the availability and efficiency of the services, their financial stability and autonomy. in order to ensure the inclusion of marginalised communities, explanatory, transparent and democratic structures should be provided to combat corruption and unfair use of funds. the proper implementation of the code of conduct for partnerships, which seeks to ensure equal participation and representation of stakeholders, is of paramount importance.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of cohesion policy must be to promote territorial development and to reduce disparities between regions. the implementation and management of the relevant eu funds therefore require specific horizontal measures to achieve this objective. the european social fund should be the main instrument for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy in the fields of employment, labour market policy, mobility, education and training and social inclusion. the esf would thus contribute to economic, social and territorial cohesion. the european structural and investment funds should promote research and analysis aimed at understanding the real living conditions of socially excluded communities. and cohesion policy should be an important tool for shaping results-based policies to effectively create strong, sustainable economic growth in the regions where it is most needed. and it's all about keeping jobs in rural and remote areas. such assumptions are worth supporting in the report.
in writing. - i voted for a stronger eu role in the un. the eu security environment is becoming increasingly volatile and unstable due to a large number of old and emerging security problems. the eu is actively involved in the work of the un system in a variety of ways and in a variety of forms, but these efforts should be more visible. to better achieve its treaty foreign policy objectives, the eu should seek to strengthen global governance within the un system and to increase its own influence and that of its member states within it. the eu must actively support a comprehensive reform of the un system to enhance its legitimacy, regional representation, transparency, accountability and effectiveness in responding to today's challenges. it is also important to give new life to the work of the general assembly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the european union, in full compliance with the provisions of the united nations charter, has a unique opportunity to pool resources across a range of diplomatic, security, defence, economic, development and humanitarian instruments. the eu also plays a key role in bilateral and multilateral trade agreements and has developed active trade policy instruments to promote economic growth, reduce poverty and protect the environment and natural resources. the eu is also one of the most committed defenders and promoters of human rights, fundamental freedoms, cultural values and diversity, democracy and the rule of law. whereas the provisions on these principles are included in all eu bilateral partnership agreements and play an important role in the eu's multilateral policy; the eu has always been a very active supporter of international justice. the eu thus plays an important role in supporting un operations in areas of mutual concern, in particular the protection of civilians, especially women and children, affected by armed conflict. the european parliament welcomes the eu's significant contribution to development aid and humanitarian aid worldwide. it is also important to stress that the eu, together with its member states, is the world's largest contributor to development aid and humanitarian aid.
in writing. ‒ i believe that in order to better achieve its foreign policy goals the eu should strengthen global governance inside the un system and to increase its own and its member states’ influence within that system. also, the eu should play enhanced role in the general assembly.
in writing. ‒ the european union has a great potential as a global player, which is not yet fully exploited. the eu plays an important role in promoting democratisation, the defence of human rights and freedoms, and economic, political and social reforms in different parts of the world. with strong leadership and a strong commitment to international rights and norms, a community of 28 countries is a great asset in today's world. it is worth noting that reform of the united nations security council is necessary, starting with the abolition of the veto power of those members who are aggressors in violation of international law. the knowledge that aggression against the sovereignty and independence of other states automatically deprives the aggressor of the right to interfere with the resolution of the conflict and the restoration of justice would act as a serious deterrent. the right of veto should also not apply to crimes against humanity and war crimes which are prohibited by international law and do not have a statute of limitations.
in writing. ‒ the role of the european union must be strengthened at the un, as it is the most reliable partner in defending the un principles, human rights and development goals. the eu-un strategic partnership is deep and the eu and un have made important progress in recent years in working together for peace and security in the world. in order to deal more effectively with current and future security challenges, i believe that reform of the security council is appropriate. the emerging and growing challenges require the un to assume new functions and therefore the governance and funding conditions of this organisation should be reviewed. it should be noted that the eu should be granted a seat on the enlarged security council. it is necessary to strengthen the coordination of eu action and its role and participation in the regulatory working groups of un bodies. the european union, together with its member states, is the main contributor to the un budget. it is therefore essential to ensure greater visibility of eu action and support in all multilateral fora and on the ground.
in writing. ‒ as you know, the eu and its member states recognise the united nations charter. however, the principles and objectives of the eu's external policy are closely linked to the principles and objectives of the un, and article 21 of the treaty on european union explicitly calls for respect for the principles of the charter and international law. member states are also the largest financial contributor to the general budget of the united nations and to un humanitarian assistance, official development assistance and support for peacekeeping operations. these figures should oblige the eu to play a major role in this key international organisation. the report contains an entry which led me to support the opinion of mr i. väyrynen. it recalls the need to coordinate and strengthen the un's efforts to combat the exploitation of workers, especially women and children, and to eliminate social dumping which threatens social development. in today's world, this is a very important thing.
in writing. calls on the eu member states to increase their support for peacebuilding and peacekeeping operations and for the eu to strengthen its mediation efforts in conflict resolution in the light of the recent brutal attacks and human rights violations by some extremist and terrorist groups; the un should strengthen its activities on all issues related to human well-being
in writing. i support the position of the european parliament on the commission's proposal for a strategic programme for the eu's safety and health at work for 2014-2020. all workers, regardless of the size of their employer, the member state of employment or the nature of the contract of employment under which they are employed, have the right to the highest level of protection of health and safety at work. as the commission underlines in the eu strategic programme on safety and health at work, effective management of safety and health at work remains a challenge for micro and small enterprises. we therefore need to take action to promote compliance and effective management of occupational safety and health in these establishments. at national level, labour inspectorates play an important role in ensuring the effective application of occupational safety and health legislation. companies can benefit from the assistance and information provided by labour inspectorates on preventive measures and legal requirements, and it is therefore necessary to allocate more staff and resources to labour inspectorates to enable them to fulfil their duties. successful risk prevention in the workplace requires social dialogue, employee representation and commitment from managers. we can also do more at member state and eu level to train and encourage health and safety representatives to take action.
in writing. more than 4000 people die each year from accidents at work, and the number of deaths from occupational diseases exceeds 15 000 per year. the right to good health is a fundamental right in europe, but despite improvements in occupational safety and health, the most serious threats to workers' health and safety have still not been addressed. the european labour market is changing. there has been a rise in the popularity of precarious employment and new forms of employment, like new technologies, have brought new health and safety challenges to be addressed. recall that job insecurity is one of the major problems, especially in the new member states of the european union, and this has a negative impact on occupational safety and related rules. the european commission needs to take account of the increasing number of workers with chronic and long-term illnesses and disabilities in order to ensure that they have an accessible and safe workplace. measures for the integration and rehabilitation of disabled people should also be encouraged. for these reasons, the european parliament should take more initiative on this important issue. all workers, regardless of their employer, the country in which they work or the type of contract under which they are employed, have the right to the highest level of health and safety at work.
we are told that terrorism has no religion, but it is clear that terrorists today seek to use religion as an incentive to commit acts of terror in a world without religion. it is also clear that terrorists are trying to take advantage of refugees. we don't have a day left without someone with a gun in their hand shouting about the great allah, killing people and taking hostages. and by the way, we have to admit that this is the result of politicians and policies that were born in the arab spring, the arab autumn, the arab winter. a spark is enough to start a fire, but even the most advanced equipment is often not enough to put it out. when it covers a large area, the fire wall is extinguished not by water but by fire. we cannot allow the fire of terrorism to enter this wall of fire. uncontrolled migration in europe cannot be tomorrow's europe, nor can the european external borders open to refugees. it is essential that the intelligence services of the community member states exchange information on persons posing a potential threat in a timely and comprehensive manner and that they take appropriate measures to prevent their activities. if necessary, by deportation from the european union. security is the most important need of european society today. it is the safeguarding of that that should be our focus, not the welfare of refugees.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to approve draft amending budget no 8. it revises the forecasts for traditional own resources (customs) and includes in the budget the remaining amount of the vat and gni balances for 2014 and 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which deals with draft amending budget no 8/2015, as it revises the forecasts for traditional own resources (customs) and includes in the budget the remaining vat and gni balances for 2014 and 2015. the european parliament stresses that additional financial resources are needed to overcome the current refugee crisis. notes furthermore that the financial commitments of the member states to the african trust fund, the syrian trust fund and the commonwealth refugee assistance agencies, which were reaffirmed at the informal eu heads of state and government meeting on migration on 23 september 2015, have not yet been met; the european parliament notes that further financial efforts will be needed to provide humanitarian aid along the transit routes and to manage the problems of hosting unprecedented numbers of refugees in european cities and regions.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 8/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015, own resources and european data protection supervisor because it was noted that further financial efforts will be needed to provide humanitarian assistance along the transit routes and to manage the challenges posed by the reception of unprecedented numbers of refugees in europe’s cities and regions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which seeks to mobilise the flexibility instrument to deal with the refugee crisis. i agree to the mobilisation of eur 1 530 million in commitment appropriations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the decision of the european parliament and of the council to mobilise the flexibility instrument for urgent budgetary measures to deal with the refugee crisis. with hundreds of thousands of refugees pouring into the european union, there is a need to redistribute funds and allocate funds to address migration and refugee issues. in the context of an emergency, the commission has proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument and to complement the amount of commitment appropriations from the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 by eur 1 504 million to finance the measures under the european agenda on migration.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures to address the refugee crisis because substantial additional financial means are necessary to address the current refugee crisis and the 2016 ceilings for heading 3 and heading 4 do not allow for an adequate financing of urgent measures in the field of migration and refugees.
the commission has proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument beyond the ceiling of heading 3 and to finance from the general budget of the union for the financial year 2016 an additional amount of eur 1 504 million in commitment appropriations to finance the measures under the european agenda on migration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to mobilise the eu solidarity fund to provide funds from the 2016 budget for the payment of advances. the european union solidarity fund aims to ensure that the eu is able to respond to emergencies caused by major natural disasters and to express solidarity with the disaster-stricken regions of europe. this proposal for a decision is not linked to a specific natural disaster, but aims to enter in the eu budget for 2016 an amount of eur 50 000 000 in commitment and payment appropriations to allow for the timely and efficient payment of advances in the event of a natural disaster in the following year. i agree that the advance should be paid at the request of the member state and only after the commission has carried out a preliminary assessment of the relevant essf application. the amount of the advance should not exceed 10% of the amount of the financial support provided and should not exceed eur 30 million.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which examines the possibility of mobilising the european union solidarity fund to pay advances. the european union solidarity fund (essf) aims to enable the european union to respond to emergencies caused by major natural disasters and to express european solidarity with the regions of europe affected by disasters. the fund may provide financial assistance to member states and countries negotiating eu membership in the event of a major natural disaster, i.e. where the total direct damage caused by that disaster exceeds eur 3 billion. it may also be mobilised in the event of a regional disaster. it should be noted that the advance may be paid at the request of a member state and after a preliminary assessment by the commission of the relevant essf application. the amount of the advance should not exceed 10% of the amount of the financial support provided and should not exceed eur 30 million. the advance shall be paid without prejudice to the final decision on the mobilisation of the essf and the european commission shall recover the amounts of the advance wrongly paid to the member states. the european parliament recalls that the essf is not just another source of eu financial support, but also helps to send a clear political signal of solidarity and to provide much-needed assistance to the citizens affected. the rapid response capabilities, including the advance payment, will therefore help the european union to achieve these objectives.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund to provide for payment of advances in the 2016 budget. the current proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council is not linked to a specific disaster. instead, it aims at entering into the general budget of the union for 2016 the amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations for the payment of advances in a timely and efficient way in the event of a disaster occurring next year.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund (essf) aims to enable the union to respond to emergencies caused by major natural disasters and to express european solidarity with the regions of europe affected by disasters. the fund may provide financial assistance to member states and countries negotiating union membership in the event of a major natural disaster, i.e. where the total direct damage caused by that disaster exceeds eur 3 billion in 2011 prices or 0,6% of the country's gross national income, whichever is the lower. it may also be mobilised in the event of a regional disaster.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of next year's eu budget. the eu budget for the following year would have a total of 155 billion in commitments (the maximum value of commitments to pay future bills) and 143.8 billion in payments (the actual amount to cover previous commitments). in negotiations with the eu council, it was agreed to allocate more funds to managing the migrant crisis, promoting youth employment and strengthening the competitiveness of the economy. the annual budget of the european union, which is jointly adopted by the eu council and the european parliament, represents just over 1% of the gross domestic product of the european union as a whole. 88% of the annual eu budget is spent in the eu member states, 6% abroad and the remaining 6% is spent on the maintenance of the eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which examines the headings of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016. as regards the financing of the youth employment initiative, the european parliament, the council and the commission recall that reducing youth unemployment remains an important and shared political priority and to this end reaffirm their determination to make the most efficient use of the budgetary resources available to address this problem, in particular by allocating them to the youth employment initiative. in the mid-term review of the multiannual financial perspectives (mff), the commission will take into account the results of the evaluation of the youth employment initiative and, if appropriate, will make proposals for the extension of the initiative until 2020. the european parliament, the council and the commission will actively monitor the state of implementation of the 2016 budget throughout the year in accordance with the agreed payment schedule.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report on the joint text on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 approved by the conciliation committee under the budgetary procedure because it is of utmost importance to reduce youth unemployment. in the report it remains a high and shared political priority, and to this end they reaffirm their determination to make the best possible use of budgetary resources available to tackle it, and in particular the youth employment initiative.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 because the report contains a significant message on the financing of the youth employment initiative. this is a very important issue for member states. the european parliament, the council and the commission have jointly stated that reducing youth unemployment remains a key and shared political priority. to this end, all eu institutions reaffirm their commitment to making the best use of budgetary resources to tackle this problem.
in writing. the european parliament, the council and the commission will actively monitor the state of implementation of the 2016 budget throughout the year in accordance with the agreed payment plan; in particular, the appropriations in the 2016 budget will allow the commission to reduce the number of outstanding payment claims under the 2007-2013 cohesion programmes accumulated at the end of the year to around eur 2 billion by the end of 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted to reject this resolution which deals with the authorisation of the chemical bis[2-ethylhexyl] phthalate (dehp). dehp is a well-known hazardous chemical. this substance is classified as a substance of very high concern due to its reproductive toxicity, endocrine toxicity and environmental toxicity. therefore, i support the call to the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision and to submit a new draft rejecting the applications for authorisation of recycled soft pvc containing dehp.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the authorisation of the chemical bis[2-ethylhexyl] phthalate (dehp). the commission is accountable to european society for protecting citizens and the environment from hazardous chemicals, while promoting innovation, including in safer chemicals and products, to foster a resilient economy. the european parliament therefore considers that the commission's decision to authorise the substance bis[2-ethylhexyl] phthalate (dehp) exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1907/2006. the european parliament, concerned about the protection of human health and the environment, calls on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision and to submit a new draft rejecting the applications for authorisation of recycled soft pvc containing dehp.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the objection pursuant to rule 106: granting an authorisation for uses of bis(2-ethylhexhyl)phthalate (dehp). ehp should be identified as a substance of very high concern because it meets the criteria set out in article 57(f) of the reach regulation in that it is a substance with endocrine disrupting properties for which there is scientific evidence of probable serious effects on human health, which give rise to a level of concern equivalent to that for other substances listed in points of the reach regulation.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report. i believe that the commission should not authorise the use of bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate by business operators. it should be noted that this chemical is dangerous and has been linked to infertility, cancer, and adverse effects on the brain. in addition, there is scientific evidence of adverse effects on endocrine function and of a causal relationship between these effects and adverse effects on human health. it should be noted that the granting of an authorisation would create a very unfavourable precedent for future decisions on authorisation under reach. therefore, the use of this substance should be withdrawn as a matter of urgency from all remaining applications in order to ensure adequate protection of humans and to eliminate adverse effects on human health.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which seeks to find ways of preventing aggressive tax planning. the proposal contains recommendations to combat aggressive corporate tax planning and evasion. i support the proposal to require multinational companies to publish their financial data by country of operation, to introduce a common consolidated corporate tax base, to make public the tax agreements between eu countries and the companies in question, and at the same time to better protect whistleblowers. i agree that multinational companies should pay taxes in the country where the value of goods and services is created.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which contains decisions on taxes and other measures of a similar nature or effect. luxleaks brought these problems to the attention of the public and the media by exposing the questionable tax practices promoted by accountancy firms in one particular member state. the commission's investigations and the work of the european parliament, with the participation of its special committee, have shown that this was not an isolated case but a widespread practice in europe and beyond, where tax measures are taken to reduce the overall tax liability of certain large corporations in order to artificially increase the national tax base at the expense of other countries (some of which are subject to austerity measures). such practices, which often result in a disconnect between the place where value is created and the place where profits are taxed, go beyond pre-tax rulings and include a wide range of harmful tax practices by national tax administrators inside and outside the eu. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to use all available means to promote a more coordinated approach towards developed countries in order to promote greater respect for the principle of reciprocity in tax matters, in particular in the exchange of information with the united states of america, following the entry into force of the foreign account tax compliance act.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect because after the lux leaks revelations, legitimate questions were raised from the media and from citizens, also given the complexity of this topic. this report tries to provide clear answers to these questions.
in writing. ‒ the it is worth noting that one of the most passionate political issues at the moment is the issue of preferential tax agreements. it should be noted that in the absence of political will to achieve convergence of national fiscal policies, member states are encouraged to opt for a bilateral approach, even though the common approach would be more effective. in particular, it is necessary to ensure a comprehensive, transparent and effective automatic exchange of information on tax matters and to consider a proposal for a common consolidated corporate tax base. the commission notes that the contested tax ruling does not contain any reference to the tax ruling of luxopco in the contested tax ruling. i think it is appropriate to move towards a stronger coordination of member states' income tax systems. however, it is essential to ensure that the right of states to apply effective taxation is preserved. similarly, the requirement of unanimity in the council of the european union should be taken into account for decisions relating to tax matters. in view of the restrictions on access to certain documents and the other obstacles which have been created, i believe that the work of this temporary committee should be extended in order to examine in greater depth the political responsibility for the cases mentioned.
in writing. ‒ the report by mr ferreira and mr theurer deserves support for several reasons. the issues surrounding the so-called corporate tax base irregularities and aggressive tax planning practices have been known and analysed at international level for at least several decades. the commission notes that the contested tax ruling does not provide for any advantage to luxopco. the commission's investigation and the work of a special parliamentary committee have shown that this is not an isolated incident, the use of tax measures to reduce some of the general tax obligations of large companies in order to artificially increase the national tax base to the disadvantage of other countries, among which emerged the states implementing austerity policies. this is a deplorable practice, widespread in europe and beyond. this requires a strong response from the european parliament, as the publicity of these practices should be an element of democratic control.
in writing. – as many members of the european parliament did i also voted in favour of this report. the current situation in europe is more than worrying. our core democratic values of respect, liberty and tolerance are under attack. we have reached the state when a delay of finding possible solutions to radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organizations can't be ignored. the fact that all terrorists were european citizens is shocking. thus it is of utmost importance to tackle the root causes of the problem. actions, collective efforts and decisions are needed here and now. we must improve the cooperation and exchange of information among law enforcement authorities of the eu member states, strengthen our measures against terrorist financing and the use of the intelligence information could be much better. moreover, we can´t forget that countering radicalisation in our real world is as important, as in the virtual world. we need to ensure that grievances among marginalised members of society are address effectively.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to prevent europeans from being radicalised. more than 5000 eu citizens have left to fight alongside terrorist organisations in iraq and syria. as repressive measures are no longer sufficient today, this report highlights actions to prevent the radicalisation and recruitment of eu citizens by terrorist organisations. i support the proposed measures: strengthening the prevention of terrorist radicalisation in prisons, the operational removal of illegal content on the internet that incites violent extremism, the creation of a system to alert members of the community to the radicalisation of an individual, the monitoring of foreign fighters in europe and better cooperation between eu countries on this issue, the intensification of the exchange of information between eu countries and europol, the confiscation of passports and financial assets of potential terrorists, the reinforced screening of their return to the eu and the establishment of a european blacklist of jihadists and suspected terrorists, the fight against the islamic state in syria and other countries, the strengthening of the protection of the eu's external borders, the fight against terrorist financing and illicit arms trafficking.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of eu citizens by terrorist organisations. the terrorist attacks in early 2015 have demonstrated the urgent need for the european union to take action in the fight against terrorism and the prevention of radicalisation of eu citizens. while the tragic events of early 2015 have given the eu institutions and member states a stronger commitment to take action to prevent radicalisation, the call for action in this area has been long overdue. the fight against radicalisation of eu citizens remains an important area of competence for member states. however, a european approach based on cooperation is needed to effectively counter the threat posed by these radical eu citizens who are able to move freely within the eu. as radicalization of eu citizens spreads rapidly, repressive measures are no longer sufficient. the european union must adopt a new strategy based on a more preventive approach. this report therefore highlights active actions to prevent the radicalisation and recruitment of eu citizens by terrorist organisations. the purpose of this report is to provide recommendations for a european strategy to prevent the radicalisation and recruitment of eu citizens. this would require an examination of the various drivers of radicalisation. the study of how new foreign fighters are recruited should provide effective solutions for each sector and platform that is fuelling radicalisation.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations. in order to notably further address the root causes of radicalisation, as well as the need to exchange best-practices on de-radicalisation programmes relying on a community-based approach.
in writing. ‒ the terrorism is one of the most serious threats to any state, to democracy and to public security. it is worth noting that terrorist organisations are active in the eu, seeking to expand by recruiting new members and targeting eu citizens. it is therefore essential to pay particular attention to the prevention of radicalisation and to the recruitment of eu citizens by terrorist organisations. in particular, action is needed to identify and punish not only terrorists but also their recruiters, trainers, financiers and ideologues, and to provide support for victims. this requires a multilateral framework and a broad-based strategy. the prevention of radicalization drivers must ensure adequate protection of human rights. it is also essential to ensure that measures such as the segregation of prisoners are applied only on a case-by-case basis and should be based on a court decision.
in writing. ‒ mep r. dati included in her report the postulates that are important for european security, for which i voted. she said that european action was needed to prevent european citizens from being radicalised and recruited by terrorist organisations. those actions are necessary to halt this escalating phenomenon, to stop european citizens leaving for conflict zones, to stop the radicalisation of the local community and to prevent further acts of terrorism. the rapporteur also stressed that the priority should be to develop an action plan for the implementation and evaluation of the eu strategy against terrorism, based on the exchange of good practice and the coordination of competences within the european union, the evaluation of measures taken by member states in full respect of international human rights conventions and the application of a multi-stakeholder approach.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to improve the safety and health of workers. more than 4 000 workers die each year as a result of accidents at work, and the number of work-related deaths exceeds 150 000 each year. all workers, regardless of the size of their employer, the member state of employment or the nature of the contract of employment under which they are employed, have the right to the highest level of protection of health and safety at work. i agree that it is important to improve the performance of the member states' strategic health programme (shp) in order to improve the health and safety situation of workers and to ensure a level playing field for businesses. an eu ex post evaluation of the practical implementation of the eu sst directives should be carried out. action is necessary to promote compliance by smes and the effective management of the ssm.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it sets out parliament's position on the commission's proposal for a strategic programme for the safety and health of workers in the eu for the period 2014-2020. in this strategy, the commission identifies a number of important challenges facing european employers and workers in the area of occupational health and safety. more than 4 000 workers die each year as a result of accidents at work, and the number of work-related deaths exceeds 150 000 each year. all workers, regardless of the size of their employer, the member state of employment or the nature of the contract of employment under which they are employed, have the right to the highest level of protection of health and safety at work. as noted in the eu strategic programme on safety and health at work, effective management of safety and health at work remains a challenge for micro and small enterprises. it is therefore necessary to take action to promote compliance and effective management of the safety and health of workers in those establishments.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the eu strategic framework on health and safety at work 2014-2020 because a large number of workers die due to accidents at work and the number of fatal work-related diseases amounts to more than 150 000 every single year! that must stop. good health is a fundamental right in europe and even though considerable progress has been made in the area of occupational health and safety throughout the years, major risks to workers’ health and safety continue to exist. the economic costs of work-related injuries and illnesses are significant and the highly challenging nature of many new and emerging risks calls for immediate measures to be taken at eu level.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament considers the eu osh programme to be essential to ensure uniformly high standards and to improve working conditions across the eu. it should be noted that, according to statistics, cancers and chronic diseases, rather than accidents at work, account for the largest share of work-related deaths in the european union. member states should therefore pay greater attention to prevention in this particular area. attention must be paid not only to the physical but also to the mental health of workers, as work-related stress and strain also have a significant impact on work performance and the well-being of workers and their families and can have long-term consequences. it is also necessary to ensure the integration of people with disabilities into the labour market, providing safe working conditions and taking their needs into account.
in writing. ‒ the i agree with the report. safe and healthy working conditions must be provided for every worker. the health and productivity of citizens are the foundation for the economic and social well-being of any country. the issue of human safety at work is of particular relevance and therefore, in order to introduce a higher level of protection for workers, it is necessary to establish clear and effective rules in the field of occupational safety and health. we need to reduce legal regulation without reducing the level of occupational safety and health. particular attention should be paid to the safety and health of workers in small and medium-sized enterprises. the strategy must strike a balance between a high level of protection and the administrative burden on businesses. employee education, training, collective bargaining and agreements with the social partners are important tools for improving the safety and health situation of workers. in setting appropriate measures, the importance of bullying and the fight against harassment and violence at work must be given high priority. in order to implement the prevention of work-related diseases and of new and emerging risks, member states should make more effective use of the european funds.
so, valletta and the g20 meetings. it has been pointed out again and again, in a politically correct way, that terrorism cannot be associated with any religion or ethnic group. i would like to point out that terrorists do not seem to read the news or listen to the press conferences, because in recent days i have been bombarded with videos in public spaces where the background of various conflicts is necessarily the mention of one great god. ladies and gentlemen, europe and the countries surrounding it and the problems they cause can no longer be looked at through rose-tinted glasses. the essential decisions need to be taken today and decisions need to be taken on the immediate return of persons who have crossed the external borders of the european union without identity documents to their countries of origin. decisions on permanent control and surveillance of the external borders of the european union are needed. decisions to be taken to offset the effects of a weakening economy. and terrorist acts and the fight against them do not serve economic growth at all.
the question asked when the blue card is raised. thank you for agreeing to answer my question, colleague. i agree that construction, energy, agriculture are important for georgia, and we wish it good fortune and progress. i am a friend of georgia, but, uh, georgia is slowly recovering from the soviet legacy. but in the past year, seven new monuments to stalin have been erected. this is the greatest murderer, the greatest criminal against humanity. tens of millions of innocent men, women and children were killed for one reason: they did not want to become soviet slaves. my friend, do you see this monument that was built for stalin? i'll do that every time i talk about it.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, a year ago, when speaking about moldova in my capacity as rapporteur, i remember that i named moldova as a front runner, a strong leader amongst the eastern partnership countries. moldova was the first to enjoy the visa-free regime within the schengen area and free trade and association agreements with us, which started to work in good time and to an increasing extent. moldova has been given all the political tools that the european union can offer to boost its europeanisation. there is nothing more that the eu could have done for moldova. but things started to go wrong – totally wrong – day after day, with the unprecedented banking scandal with no full investigation until now and the clear evidence of corruption throughout all political segments and layers with, i am afraid, no visible efforts made to fight it. the reforms are stuck. let us be clear about that. that is no surprise, as governments are changing at the same speed as the seasons of the year. in a situation like this, it is probably natural to see people on the streets for several months. it is just a question of when the tension will explode. today i am sorry to say that, from being a front runner, moldova has become a symbol of political chaos. today i call on the political elite of moldova to please wake up. it is time. wake up and start demonstrating your political responsibility to your own country and your own people – people who deserve to live in europe and to enjoy being europeans.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the court of auditors, which has substantially improved the quality of its annual reports, which are essential to the proper management of the european union's resources. last year, the union budget was as high as eur 150 billion. it is therefore essential to reduce the high level of payment errors, which for a number of years has exceeded the 2% threshold, such as in the economic, social and cohesion policy areas. it is unacceptable that the commission and the member states do not use all the information available to them and that they do not prevent errors. the recommendations of the court of auditors are not fully implemented, i.e. the commission should establish uniform procurement principles and selection criteria in all member states, should take responsibility for collecting the necessary and comparable data on the use of european union funds in the member states and others. it is also important that the commission take more active action to recover amounts unduly spent and, together with the member states, address urgently the issue of accumulated late payments. [time for the debate has expired]
author.– madam president, the ongoing indiscriminate attacks by the taliban and other insurgency groups have led to a sharp rise in civilian deaths. the brutal killing of hazara civilians in the province of zabul highlighted the fact that the local population remains under permanent threat. in order to protect vulnerable groups, the vicious circle of violence needs to be broken. i urge the afghan authorities to act swiftly and conduct an impartial and comprehensive investigation into those murders. i also appeal to them to do their utmost to fulfil their international obligations by ensuring equal human rights for women and putting an end to the impunity of national security forces. however, can we expect human rights without a lasting peace, security and a sustainable state? i do not think so. it is feared that, with the gradual international disengagement and fatigue with afghanistan, respect for human rights might deteriorate even further. a lasting solution to the current situation will depend on whether the government upholds its commitments on human rights. it will also require the continued support of the international community in the fight against insurgency and in the development of resilient afghan institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution on the current state of the doha development agenda in the run-up to the 10th wto ministerial conference. the doha negotiations were launched in 2001 with the aim of creating new trade opportunities, strengthening multilateral trade rules and correcting existing imbalances in the trading system by focusing on the needs of developing and least developed countries. i support the wto structural reform needed to better ensure a non-discriminatory trading system. trade liberalisation is an important tool for sustainable economic growth and development, but trade liberalisation also requires the implementation of appropriate accompanying policies, including budgetary transparency, fiscal policy, administrative simplification, education and training, institutional reforms and social policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the current state of the doha development agenda in the run-up to the 10th ministerial conference of the world trade organisation (wto). the european parliament supports the wto structural reform needed to better ensure a rules-based, open, fair and non-discriminatory trading system that takes greater account of the roles and interests of the various economic operators, such as small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), micro-enterprises and innovative start-ups. parliament called on wto members to actively support the efforts of the wto by establishing effective and efficient working relationships and ensuring closer cooperation with other international organisations whose activities are related to global trade negotiations, in particular the international labour organisation, the world health organisation and the united nations and its agencies. parliament also considered it essential to conclude the long-drawn-out doha round of negotiations in the implementation of the development mandate. calls therefore on all wto members to consider all options to achieve a large-scale, universal, sustainable and realistic outcome with this ultimate objective in mind.
in writing. ‒ the i agree with the report. greater efforts are needed to bring the doha round to a swift conclusion and ambitious results. it is clear that the long delay in these negotiations will create major problems. in particular, rules for international trade that are acceptable to all parties should be established to justify the desire of the parties to act more fairly and openly. more consideration should be given to the very different economic development and individual needs of developing countries. more advanced developing countries should assume some responsibility already in the current round and contribute according to their level of development. in addition, structural reforms should be undertaken in the wto to better ensure an open, fair and non-discriminatory trading system based on commonly applicable rules. we need to create opportunities not just to help the weak economies of the world, but to help the strong economies to grow. it is therefore essential that all wto members ratify and implement the trade facilitation agreement as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for ecuador to join the eu trade agreement with colombia and peru. this accession will bring significant benefits to ecuador's exports to the eu, as it will no longer be subject to the eu's unilateral generalised system of preferences. i believe that this agreement will help to promote and diversify trade and investment between the two countries of the agreement, to promote economic and social development and to help reduce poverty and inequality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because ecuador's accession to the trade agreement with colombia and peru is another decisive step forward in creating an alliance with important, like-minded and fast-growing economies in a region that is increasingly focused on the asia-pacific. the european parliament welcomes the conclusion of negotiations with ecuador on a protocol on its accession to the trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru, recognising the significant benefits of this accession for ecuador in terms of exports to the eu, especially in view of the fact that it will no longer be subject to the eu's unilateral generalised system of preferences. it is important that this agreement enters into force and is implemented swiftly and fully, as this will contribute to the protection of citizens and the environment. this agreement will promote and diversify trade and investment between the two countries of the agreement, promote economic and social development and contribute to reducing poverty and inequality.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement with colombia and peru would be another decisive step forward in the alliance with important, like-minded and fast-growing countries in the region.
in writing. ‒ the i support the communication on the accession of ecuador to the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement. this is a very important and decisive step forward in the alliance with important emerging economies. this agreement is of major importance for the economic development of both partners. it will help to promote and diversify trade and investment between the two countries of the agreement and support democratic development and economic and social progress. it will also help to attract more european investment, which in the long term will promote economic and social development and help to reduce poverty and inequality. in order to develop a serious political dialogue and to expand effective sectoral dialogue, ecuador needs to ensure its policy coherence with the wto and to immediately remove the remaining identified barriers to market entry. transparent and binding action plans for human rights, environmental protection and workers' rights must be drawn up and their proper implementation ensured. it is essential for the effective implementation of the agreement that all provisions of the agreement are effectively implemented from the date of entry into force of the agreement.
in writing. - i voted for this petition on animal welfare. i agree that animal welfare should be further improved on the basis of the scientific evidence available and with due regard to the efficiency and competitiveness of livestock farming. i support the calls on the commission to implement without delay the remaining points of the european union animal welfare strategy 2012-2015. the commission should assess the existing strategy and develop a new comprehensive animal welfare strategy for the period 2016-2020. the commission should adapt policy measures or introduce new measures to address animal welfare concerns where there is clear scientific evidence to support those concerns. the commission should closely monitor the implementation of eu legislation on animal welfare in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because animal welfare should be further improved on the basis of established scientific findings and with due regard to the efficiency and competitiveness of livestock farming. it would therefore be useful to define what constitutes a suitable animal husbandry in order to ensure clarity of animal welfare standards throughout the european union. the european parliament urges the commission to evaluate the existing strategy and to develop a new comprehensive animal welfare strategy for the period 2016-2020 in order to build on the work started with the previous strategy and to ensure that a system of high animal welfare standards continues to exist in all member states. parliament also called on the commission to adapt policy measures or to introduce new measures to address animal welfare problems where there is clear scientific evidence to support these problems. the commission should closely monitor the implementation of eu legislation on animal welfare in the member states. in addition, the commission should develop, share and disseminate best scientific practices and support innovation and research in the development of new animal welfare methods and technologies.
in writing. ‒ i support the reassurance that any harmonisation of the legislative framework will not lead to a decline in animal welfare standards or a lowering of ambitions to improve animal welfare, and i agree with the call to the commission to augment existing standards on the basis of updated scientific findings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the implementation, management, reporting and control of the european structural and investment (esi) funds still pose challenges both for the beneficiaries and for the managing authorities, especially those with limited administrative and financial capacity. in the resolution, the european parliament asks the commission to provide guidance to member states and regions on how to streamline and simplify control, monitoring and reporting activities, including the requirements for beneficiaries, in order to address existing weaknesses.
in writing. ‒ the i agree with the report because the eu must ensure the highest level of animal welfare. in particular, it is necessary to develop a new comprehensive animal welfare strategy for the period 2016-2020. the legislative framework should be updated, comprehensive and clear. however, administrative simplification should in no way reduce the level of animal welfare. the approach required is to focus on the overall animal welfare quality outcome. international cooperation needs to be promoted and the union's approach to animal welfare needs to be further supported. in this context, the principle of reciprocity of animal welfare standards should be incorporated as a non-trade aspect into trade policy and the negotiation of international trade agreements. in addition, the commission should monitor more closely the implementation of eu legislation on animal welfare in the member states. i believe that alternative methods of non-animal testing should be encouraged and funded under new and existing funding schemes and that animal testing should be phased out. it is essential to implement effectively measures to prevent animal cruelty and neglect.
in writing. ‒ the i voted for this motion on the education of children in emergencies and protracted crises. one billion children live in conflict-affected areas, 250 million of them under the age of five, and are denied the right to education. in the long term, quality education can be a key component in the reconstruction of conflict-affected societies, as it can increase children's employment opportunities, enable them to maintain the health of their families and improve their ability to escape poverty. i agree that there is a need to focus on secondary education and vocational training, as well as basic initial education. i support calls for member states to develop specific programmes for the reception of unaccompanied minors and single mothers with children. the eu and its humanitarian agencies should systematically integrate education and child protection into the entire disaster response cycle and ensure that flexible multiannual funds are in place to provide support in the event of protracted crises.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution on the education of children in emergencies and protracted crises. every child is a child first and his or her rights should be guaranteed on a non-discriminatory basis, regardless of his or her parents' ethnic origin, nationality or social status, as well as whether they are migrants and their residence status. education is a fundamental human right and a right of every child; whereas education is essential for the full enjoyment of all other social, economic, cultural and political rights. the european parliament stresses that universal, high-quality public education is a key factor in promoting development, improving the prospects for other actions in the fields of health, sanitation, disaster risk reduction, job creation, poverty reduction and economic development. the role of education should also be emphasised as an effective tool for developing a sense of what is normal, for improving rights awareness and for helping children, adolescents and young people to overcome trauma, reintegrate into society after conflict and acquire the skills needed to rebuild their societies and promote peace-building and reconciliation. the parliament also stressed the need to focus on secondary education and vocational training, as well as basic initial education.
in writing. ‒ an estimated 65 million children aged between three and 15 are most affected by emergencies and protracted crises, with the risk of disruption to their education, and approximately 37 million children of primary and lower secondary age are out of school in crisis-affected countries. it is important to comprehend that education is vital in order to be able to enjoy in full all other social, economic, cultural and political rights.
in writing. ‒ the i support the motion for a resolution. quality education is a crucial factor in the reconstruction of conflict-affected societies and in the effectiveness of humanitarian aid. it is therefore essential to increase the resilience of education systems and to ensure continuous learning in the event of emergencies and protracted crises. the eu's cooperation with partner countries, other donors, the private sector and civil society needs to be strengthened. it should be noted that international donors should pay particular attention to education in order to involve children and provide them with psychological support. in order to ensure a higher and more appropriate level of integration of children, the language learning of the host country must be encouraged, the choice of learning options broadened and accessibility increased. the public financing of education and the public structure of education must be given high priority in order to ensure effective access to education for all.
in writing. ‒ despite the reform of cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period, which addressed the issue of simplification methods, the implementation, management, reporting and control of the european structural and investment funds remain a challenge for both beneficiaries and managing authorities. i agree that the commission should provide detailed simplification guidelines to inform member states of their task to eliminate or at least significantly reduce the administrative burden involved in the selection of proposed projects and in the monitoring and control activities in the context of procurement processes at national and local level. it is important that the commission and the member states promote the simplification of the rules governing financial instruments of the esi funds in order to better adapt them to the needs of beneficiaries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because, despite the reform of cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period, which addressed the issue of simplification methods, the implementation, management, reporting and control of the european structural and investment (esi) funds still pose challenges for both beneficiaries and managing authorities, especially those with limited administrative and financial capacity. the european parliament considers that the commission should present detailed simplification guidelines to inform member states and their regions of their task to eliminate or at least significantly reduce the administrative burden at national and local level in the procurement processes, the selection of proposed projects and monitoring and control activities. parliament therefore calls on the commission, in coordination with the member states and in accordance with the principle of proportionality, to establish and implement flexible principles for the data and information requirements imposed on beneficiaries during the application process and during the reporting process for eu funding under the shared management system, and to promote the exchange of good practices.
in writing. ‒ despite the reformed cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period, in which simplification methods are addressed, application, management, reporting and control with respect to the european structural and investment funds (esif) are still cumbersome for both beneficiaries and managing authorities, in particular those with fewer administrative and financial capacities, and should be simplified.
in writing. ‒ the cohesion policy must be results-oriented. therefore, in order to ensure the success of this policy, its effective impact on smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to bring it closer to citizens, it is necessary to simplify the rules governing cohesion policy. the existing over-regulation and complex procedures prevent eu support and result in excessive administrative costs and burdens. it is therefore essential that the procedures for implementing financial instruments are as close as possible to business practice and do not create additional burdensome procedures. in this context, the commission should provide detailed simplification guidelines that ensure the right balance between simplification and the detection and prevention of irregularities, including fraud. in addition, the principle of good governance, which is crucial for the effective implementation of cohesion policy and for successfully contributing to smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth, should be implemented.
in writing.– since the migrant flows from north africa and the middle east have reached unprecedented levels, i view the ombudsman’s recommendations to set up a complaints mechanism within frontex as a very positive step in order to protect the human rights of those entering the eu. it is necessary to overcome the agency’s accountability and transparency problems with the external agencies’ border control practices, and to ensure that the staff working for or with frontex fully comply with the eu’s charter of fundamental rights. this can be achieved only if frontex sets up a monitoring mechanism to deal with complaints of breaches of human rights internally. since frontex would be dealing with breaches of human rights mainly related to non-frontex staff (national guards), it would help to keep the impartiality of the complaint mechanism, make the national border guards accountable and not immune to impunity, and overcome the existing accountability gap.
in writing. we already adopted our position on this directive in the european parliament in 2013, which could be a very good example to ensure gender equality in other areas as well. gender equality at the highest levels of companies is still not ensured at european union level, but the available capacities should be used while promoting gender balance on the boards of all companies operating in the internal market. since the commission's draft was published, the number of women on company boards has increased from 16,6% at the time of publication to 18,6% in 2014. legislative pressure seems to be an important factor in changing existing structures. it is therefore essential to continue negotiations in the council on a european directive on women's quotas in companies and to aim for at least 40% of company non-executive directors to be of the under-represented sex. the current presidency of the council, luxembourg, gave a clear endorsement of the proposed directive when presenting its agenda to the parliament's committee on women's rights and gender equality on 14 july 2015. i would therefore urge the luxembourg presidency to seek a common agreement between the member states as soon as possible. because it would be a great pity if, after much debate and negotiation, this directive were blocked.
25% of all road deaths in the european union are alcohol related. according to the world health organization, lithuania ranks third in the european union in terms of alcohol consumption per capita. alcohol use is responsible for a staggering number of deaths and injuries on our roads. it is clear that neither lithuania nor the european union has done enough to limit the availability of alcohol. a prime example is the sale of alcohol at petrol stations. i have serious doubts that the funds of the european union are not being used to develop the alcohol industry. i therefore call on the european commission to carry out a thorough study in this area and to ensure that funds are continuously allocated to informing the public about the harm alcohol causes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to set up a special committee on decisions on taxes and other measures having similar character or effect and on harmful corporate tax arrangements and practices at eu and international level. the committee will be tasked with examining the application of eu state aid and taxation rules to practices involving advance rulings by member states on taxes and other measures of a similar nature or effect, where such practices appear to be the result of action by a member state or the commission.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, which proposes that the european parliament establish a special committee on tax rulings and other measures having similar character or effect and harmful corporate tax practices and arrangements at eu and international level. the task of this committee is to examine the application of the european union state aid and taxation rules to practices involving advance rulings by member states on taxes and other measures of a similar nature or effect, where such practices appear to be the result of action by a member state or the commission. the new special committee will have 45 members (as will the taxe special committee). the european parliament considers that the new special committee would maintain the structure of the taxe special committee. the new special committee is hereby established for a period of six months from 2 december 2015.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report on setting up a special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect, its powers, numerical strength and term of office, because i believe that it is important to fully build on and complete the work carried out by the taxe special committee, in particular to address unresolved issues highlighted in its resolution of 25 november 2015 and to make the necessary contacts and hold hearings with international, european and national institutions, the national parliaments and governments of the member states and third countries, as well as representatives of the academic community, business and civil society, including the social partners, in close cooperation with the standing committees.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the extension of the mandate of the special committee on taxation and other measures having similar character or effect and with the new powers of inquiry. in order to address outstanding issues and prevent harmful practices, it is necessary to further examine the application of eu state aid and taxation rules to prior rulings by member states on taxes and other measures of a similar nature or effect. it is also essential that the other institutions, including the president of the commission, cooperate more closely with the committee and clarify their position on past scandals. in order to enable the committee to carry out its mandate properly, its members should be granted full access to all documents of the code of conduct group, as well as to other relevant information.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal of the conference of presidents for the appointment of members of the special committee on taxation and other measures having similar character or effect.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the decision on appointments to the special committee on tax rulings since the committee will perform on key issues, analysing and assessing all systems of aid existing in member states, proposing to the member states appropriate measures required by the progressive development or by the functioning of the internal market, checking whether aid granted by a state or through state resources is compatible with the internal market and not misused, and deciding that the state concerned is to abolish or alter such aid.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement between the european union and liechtenstein. it is a great preventive measure to stop the evasive spread of tax fraud and tax evasion. exchange of information relating to income in such forms as interests and dividends will help to better administrate tax matters in cross-border related situations, avoid tax evasion and help to reduce the administrative burden by avoiding unnecessary investigations.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal for the approval of an agreement on the exchange of automatic financial account information for tax purposes with liechtenstein. the eu and liechtenstein signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information in october 2015 to improve international cooperation and compliance in the field of taxation. this is a major contribution to the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. from 2017, the eu and liechtenstein will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of their residents in response to attempts by taxpayers to conceal capital consisting of income or assets for which no tax has been paid. i agree that the tax authorities in the member states and liechtenstein should correctly and clearly identify the taxpayers concerned, administer and enforce their tax laws in cross-border cases, assess the possibility of tax evasion and avoid unnecessary further investigations.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report on the taxation of interest income from savings between the european union (eu) and liechtenstein. the eu and liechtenstein signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information on 28 october 2015 with a view to enhancing international cooperation and compliance in the field of taxation. the agreement is an important step in the ongoing fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, and it amends the 2004 agreement which ensured that liechtenstein applied measures equivalent to those of the eu savings directive on taxation of income. under this agreement, the eu and liechtenstein will exchange information on financial accounts held by their residents automatically from 2017. the aim is to respond to cases where a taxpayer attempts to conceal capital consisting of income or assets for which taxes have not been paid. the agreement aims to ensure that liechtenstein applies more stringent measures that are equivalent to the eu directive as revised in march 2014 and that it complies with the provisions on automatic exchange of financial account information promoted by the implementation of the 2014 oecd global standards. the eu-liechtenstein agreement should enter into force on 1 january 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the eu-liechtenstein agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information. the european union and liechtenstein signed an agreement on 28 october 2015 on the automatic exchange of financial account information, aimed at improving international tax cooperation and compliance. it is a very important step in ongoing efforts to clamp down on tax fraud and tax evasion and upgrades the 2004 agreement that ensured that liechtenstein applied measures equivalent to those in an eu directive on the taxation of savings income. under the agreement, the eu and liechtenstein will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of each other’s residents, starting in 2017. the aim is to address situations where a taxpayer seeks to hide capital representing income or assets for which taxes have not been paid.
in writing. ‒ the i agree with the report. this eu-liechtenstein agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information in tax matters is a major step forward in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. it is essential to ensure that liechtenstein applies measures equivalent to those of the eu. it should be noted that the automatic exchange of information is a crucial tool to ensure full tax transparency and cooperation between tax administrations on a global scale. therefore, a harmonised, consistent and comprehensive approach to the automatic exchange of financial account information in the internal market should be applied throughout the european union. in addition, automatic exchanges of information should be promoted to become the european and international standard for the exchange of information in the field of transparency and taxation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to assess the special report of the european ombudsman's own-initiative inquiry into frontex. frontex is working to strengthen respect for fundamental rights through measures such as the establishment of a system for reporting unforeseen events, the development of codes of conduct, the establishment of a consultative forum on fundamental rights and the establishment of a fundamental rights office. i agree that, in view of the continuously growing humanitarian and legal challenges at the eu's external borders and the strengthening of frontex operations, a mechanism is needed to deal with individual complaints about alleged fundamental rights violations in frontex operations.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament welcomes the special report of the european ombudsman's own-initiative inquiry into frontex. parliament acknowledges the ongoing efforts of frontex to strengthen respect for fundamental rights through measures such as, but not limited to, the establishment of a system of notifications of contingencies, the development of codes of conduct, the establishment of a consultative forum on fundamental rights and the establishment of a fundamental rights office. however, on the other hand, the european parliament expresses its serious concern about the legal vacuum regarding third-country posted officials in return operations, as indicated in the european ombudsman's report, as well as the lack of accountability that would be encountered in the event of human rights violations by third-country posted officials. parliament therefore considers that the introduction of an individual complaints mechanism would enable individuals to exercise their right to an effective legal remedy in the event of a breach of their fundamental rights. moreover, the establishment of such a complaints mechanism would ensure greater transparency and respect for human rights, including in the application of frontex working arrangements, by better informing frontex and the eu institutions of potential fundamental rights violations that might otherwise go unnoticed, unreported and unaddressed.
in writing. ‒ my vote on the special report of the european ombudsman in the own-initiative inquiry concerning frontex was decided by the fact that, in view of the ever-growing humanitarian and legal challenges at the eu’s external borders and the strengthening of frontex operations, there is a need for a mechanism that is capable of processing individual complaints about alleged breaches of fundamental rights occurring in the course of frontex operations or cooperation with third countries, thus becoming a first-instance body for complaints.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report. in view of the activities carried out by frontex and its growing role under eu law, as well as the recommendations made by the ombudsman, i believe it appropriate to establish a mechanism for handling individual complaints within this agency. the agency would become the first-instance complaints body. it should be noted that the rights of the individual must be not only formally but also in reality and effectively protected against unlawful acts by private persons and officials alike. it is therefore essential to ensure that the new mechanism ensures the proper handling of complaints concerning possible infringements of fundamental rights in the context of frontex operations. in addition, the complaints mechanism must be in line with eu law and the principle of good administration would also help to implement the agency's fundamental rights strategy more effectively. this would enable victims to exercise properly their right to an effective, cost-effective and expeditious remedy for their infringed rights.
in writing. ‒ rapporteur ska keller takes up a very important issue, which seeks to reconcile two of the most important issues facing europeans today: ensuring the security of citizens while respecting human rights. frontex is bound by the charter of fundamental rights, like any other institution or agency of the european union. in view of the increasing number of humanitarian and legal challenges at the external borders of the eu, it is necessary to establish a mechanism to allow for the analysis of individual complaints concerning suspected violations of fundamental rights that may arise from the activities of frontex or from cooperation with third countries. in democratic countries such legal instruments must be guaranteed, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to reorient urban mobility towards sustainable modes of transport in order to meet the challenges of our age: climate, health and the environment, well-being and safety for all. it is projected that by 2050, almost 82% of all eu citizens will live in urban areas. about 50% of eu citizens use their cars on a daily basis, only 16% use public transport and only 12% use bicycles. eu citizens consider lower public transport prices (59%), better quality of public transport services (56%) and better infrastructure for cyclists (33%) to be the most effective measures to improve urban mobility. i agree that the main priorities for improving urban mobility should be: return of space and infrastructure to all citizens and improvement of accessibility, improvement of the environment, quality of life and health, energy saving and climate protection, innovation, more sustainable and safer urban mobility, reduction of external costs and ensuring higher quality investments, etc.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with urban traffic, i.e. traffic congestion, traffic regulation, human safety on the streets and roads, environmental and health impacts, etc. mobility is not an end in itself, but it should become a right for all citizens. with 80% of europeans living in cities, mobility should enable everyone, including people with reduced mobility, to study, work, participate in cultural activities, have free time and access to healthcare. however, urban mobility is often seen as a constraint, due to the excessive use of private cars powered by traditional fuels. the transition to more sustainable modes of transport is therefore very slow: the car remains our main means of mobility, accounting for 43% of the world's kilometres and three quarters of european journeys. the car addiction and its consequences congestion on the roads, which costs €80 billion in all european cities make urban dwellers prisoners of compulsory mobility (which they cannot choose). the aim of this report is therefore to reorient urban mobility towards sustainable modes of transport in order to meet the challenges of our age: climate, health and the environment, well-being and safety for all. current and future urban mobility must be based on ecological mobility and cooperation networks. new urban driving practices such as car sharing are developing and it is essential that such practices are integrated into the multiple mobility chain alongside cycling, walking and public transport.
in writing. ‒ my vote was decided by the fact that mobility can provide a vital boost for our economy and if we are to deliver economic growth. with this in mind, we want to promote inter-modality and co-modality in a way that can deliver more sustainable and efficient urban transport modes. we should also encourage cooperation, sharing of best practices and integration of innovation and digitalisation into forthcoming mobility planning.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report. transportation is our mobility. urban mobility plays an important role in shaping transport policy. the changing urban transport system must ensure the mobility needs of each citizen and the accessibility of urban areas within the shortest distance and the shortest time, while protecting the environment and improving the quality of life. the development of sustainable and environmentally friendly urban transport strategies and sustainable mobility plans should therefore be encouraged. it should be noted that the development of sustainable mobility plans is an important element of the financing of eu projects in the field of urban transport. it is essential that the esi funds are systematically used to develop and implement comprehensive and integrated plans for sustainable urban mobility. urban mobility should contribute to the eu's resource efficiency goals, reducing air pollution, noise, greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption. however, i do not believe that the high consumption of diesel in the european union has been driven by favourable taxation rules and i do not support the proposal calling for immediate action to phase out fossil fuel subsidies.
in writing. ‒ 80% of europeans will live in cities, so mobility should promote access for all, including people with reduced mobility, to schools, work, culture and health facilities. in the meantime, urban mobility is often mistakenly perceived as an inconvenience. the report aims to shift urban mobility towards more sustainable vehicles in order to meet the challenges of our age, such as health and environmental protection or safety. to achieve this, the european union needs to set itself ambitious targets so that the member states, regions and local authorities can work together to implement this new model of sustainable urban mobility. it is therefore worth supporting this report.
in writing. it is symbolic that today, as we are discussing a resolution on european electricity interconnections with our colleagues in the european parliament in strasbourg, the long-awaited electricity interconnections with sweden (nordbalt) and poland (litpol link) are officially being inaugurated in lithuania. thanks to the persistence of the baltic states and the support of the european union, one of the most isolated energy islands has disappeared today. the baltic states have become full-fledged european market participants thanks to the electricity bridges built. this is good news for the low-cost electricity consumers. this is also good news for local energy producers, as the interconnectors will allow electricity to be exported. it is also good news for all those who care about our environment, as connectivity is a prerequisite for the development of renewable sources. so, in short, it's a good day for all of us who want an independent, secure, third-party-free energy system. true, the baltic states remain in a sense dependent on russia, since the electricity transmission system itself is still controlled from moscow. i would therefore like to congratulate my colleague, peter eriksson, who in his report on electricity interconnections also draws attention to the so-called problem of synchronisation of the baltic electricity systems. it is not normal that transmission systems in even three eu member states operate in a different political and economic space. i hope that the european parliament, by voting in favour of this resolution, will express its full support for the synchronisation of the baltic transmission system with the continental european networks.
in writing. with the agreement reached at the climate change conference, the creation of a european energy union is even more urgent. the european energy union needs to be effective and able to respond and adapt to new challenges in the global energy and geopolitical context. the communication is a compromise text and therefore cannot be ideally balanced. however, i believe that the objectives and measures of the energy union are clearly set out in it. adequate attention shall be paid to internal aspects of the energy union, such as the establishment of the internal market, security of supply, infrastructure, energy efficiency or the reduction of greenhouse gases. but the secondary plan should not be to consolidate a genuine european energy foreign policy. the recent vision of a european energy union is, i believe, still lacking, as we can see from the decision on the nordstream 2 pipeline. solidarity is often expressed in words rather than in deeds. i am convinced that the success of the energy union will depend not on the lofty goals we set but on how we achieve them. i therefore believe that increased supervision and control by the commission is necessary. i would urge my colleagues to concentrate on those areas of energy policy where consensus is possible. the commission presented the first annual report on the energy union last month and i hope that parliament will be able to formulate its position in time.
the european commission's decision to authorise a new genetically modified maize variety is another example of arrogance. i would point out that the maize variety in question is a hybrid of the previously authorised variety 603 , which is infamous for the research carried out by the french scientist seralini. he found that this gmo caused multiple illnesses and tumours in laboratory mice. an attempt was made to refute the conclusions of this study. the european food safety authority has joined the wave of criticism. but in two trials in paris, on november 6 and 26, the scientist defended his honor. the european commission should therefore take the potential risks to human and animal health posed by these gmos more seriously. i support this resolution of the european parliament and i call on the commission to finally start working with parliament and not against it.
in writing.– the completion of the economic and monetary union should be of the highest priority in order to unleash the full potential of the single currency and structures and economic instruments at our command. the euro has already become a currency recognised and used worldwide. however, we still need to aim not only for a better representation of the euro in relation to monetary and banking union but also to reinforce the governance of the eurozone – for this a genuine dialogue between the member states and the european parliament is the key.
‒ i voted in favour of the eu-swiss confederation agreement on the participation of the eu in the european asylum support office.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives the european parliament its consent to the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the terms and conditions of switzerland's participation in the european asylum support office.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the arrangement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office, because it will give the consent to the conclusion of the arrangement, which i support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the eu-dominica agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and dominica and is a complementary measure to strengthen economic and cultural links and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the dominican republic on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and the commonwealth of dominica, further confirming the important political importance of the cotonou agreement, and is a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural links and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. this agreement establishes a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and the commonwealth of dominica who intend to enter the territory of the other contracting party and stay there for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa-free regime applies to all categories of persons (civilians, diplomats, officials and/or officials and holders of special passports) travelling abroad for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the commonwealth of dominica on the short-stay visa waiver because i support reducing restrictions on eu citizens travelling to third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the eu-vanuatu agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and dominica and is a complementary measure to strengthen economic and cultural links and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it gives the european parliament its consent to the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the republic of vanuatu on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and the republic of vanuatu, further confirming the important political importance of the cotonou agreement, and is a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural links and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. this agreement establishes a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and of the republic of vanuatu travelling to and staying in the territory of the other contracting party for a period not exceeding 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa-free regime applies to all categories of persons (civilians, diplomats, officials and/or officials and holders of special passports) travelling abroad for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of vanuatu on the short-stay visa waiver because i believe that allowing easier travel to the eu for citizens of some third countries can encourage people-to-people contacts, boost tourism, and invigorate business.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the eu-trinidad and tobago agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and trinidad and tobago and is an additional instrument to strengthen economic and cultural links and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its consent to the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago, further confirming the important political importance of the cotonou agreement, and is a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural links and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. this agreement establishes a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and of the republic of trinidad and tobago when travelling to and staying in the territory of the other contracting party for a period not exceeding 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa-free regime applies to all categories of persons (civilians, diplomats, officials and/or officials and holders of special passports) travelling abroad for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago on the short-stay visa waiver because a visa waiver agreement helps the eu promote reforms in third countries in relation to strengthening respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the eu-samoa agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and samoa and is a complementary measure to strengthen economic and cultural links and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the independent state of samoa on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and the independent state of samoa, further confirming the important political significance of the cotonou agreement, as well as a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural ties and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. this agreement establishes a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and of the independent state of samoa travelling to and staying in the territory of the other contracting party for a period not exceeding 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa-free regime applies to all categories of persons (civilians, diplomats, officials and/or officials and holders of special passports) travelling abroad for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the draft agreement between the european union and the independent state of samoa on the short-stay visa waiver, as it will facilitate travel for eu citizens to third countries within the eu, promote people-to-people contacts, increase tourism and boost business.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the eu-grenada agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and grenada and is a complementary measure to strengthen economic and cultural links and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and grenada on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and grenada, further confirming the important political importance of the cotonou agreement, and is a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural links and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. this agreement establishes a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and of grenada travelling to and staying in the territory of the other contracting party for a period not exceeding 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa-free regime applies to all categories of persons (civilians, diplomats, officials and/or officials and holders of special passports) travelling abroad for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the draft agreement between the european union and grenada on the short-stay visa waiver, which will facilitate travel to third countries for eu citizens, promote people-to-people contacts, increase tourism and boost business.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the eu-east timor agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and east timor and is a complementary measure to strengthen economic and cultural links and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and east timor on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and east timor, further confirming the important political importance of the cotonou agreement, and is a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural links and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. this agreement establishes a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and of east timor who intend to enter the territory of the other contracting party and stay there for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa-free regime applies to all categories of persons (civilians, diplomats, officials and/or officials and holders of special passports) travelling abroad for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste on the short-stay visa waiver because i believe that a visa waiver agreement help the eu promote reforms in third countries in relation to strengthening the respect of fundamental rights and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the eu-saint lucia agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and saint lucia and is a complementary measure to strengthen economic and cultural links and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and saint lucia on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and saint lucia, further confirming the important political importance of the cotonou agreement, and is a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural links and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. this agreement establishes a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and of saint lucia travelling to and staying in the territory of the other contracting party for a period not exceeding 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa-free regime applies to all categories of persons (civilians, diplomats, officials and/or officials and holders of special passports) travelling abroad for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and saint lucia on the short-stay visa waiver because i support easier travel to the eu for citizens of some third countries that can encourage people-to-people contacts, boost tourism, and invigorate business.
in writing. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and saint lucia, further confirming the important political significance of the cotonou agreement, and is also a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural ties and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the eu-saint vincent and the grenadines agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines and is a complementary measure to strengthen economic and cultural links and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines, further confirming the important political importance of the cotonou agreement, as well as a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural ties and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. this agreement establishes a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and of saint vincent and the grenadines travelling to and staying in the territory of the other contracting party for a period not exceeding 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa-free regime applies to all categories of persons (civilians, diplomats, officials and/or officials and holders of special passports) travelling abroad for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines on the short-stay visa waiver, as i believe that this can help the eu to promote human rights reforms in third countries, to help develop business relations and to promote european tourism.
in writing. the agreement provides for a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and of saint vincent and the grenadines entering the territory of the other contracting party and staying there for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. i would stress that the visa-free regime will be a great help in bringing europeans and caribbean people closer together. the visa-free agreement not only allows citizens to take full advantage of the acp-eu partnership, but also to participate in it by making inexpensive and practical travel.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the eu-uae agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and the united arab emirates and is a complementary measure to strengthen economic and cultural links and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the united arab emirates on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and the uae, further confirming the important political significance of the cotonou agreement, and is a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural ties and to foster political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. this agreement establishes a visa-free regime for citizens of the european union and the uae who intend to enter the territory of the other contracting party and stay there for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa-free regime applies to all categories of persons (civilians, diplomats, officials and/or officials and holders of special passports) travelling abroad for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the united arab emirates on the short-stay visa waiver because uae cooperated closely with the eu during the bilateral negotiations including on the question of human rights and a uae-eu technical working party on human rights has been set up as part of the agreement.
in writing. this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is the result of the development of relations between the european union and the united arab emirates and is a complementary measure to strengthen economic and cultural links and to promote political dialogue on a wide range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the visa waiver agreement would thus make it easier for many europeans to visit family members residing in the uae or to travel for business or tourism.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal for a memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonization in the internal market and eurojust. the purpose of the memorandum of understanding is to promote cooperation between eurojust and the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) within the respective mandates of both agencies. the exchange of information or experience referred to therein shall not apply to the transfer of operational information, including data relating to a person whose identity has been established or is likely to be established. i agree that disputes concerning the implementation of the memorandum of understanding should be settled in consultations and negotiations between eurojust and the representatives of the ohim, thus excluding any third-party arbitrator. i also agree that in the event of a serious breach of the provisions of the memorandum of understanding, or if eurojust or the edps consider that such a breach may be committed in the near future, one of these agencies may suspend the application of the memorandum of understanding.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports the conclusion of a memorandum between eurojust and the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim). the purpose of the memorandum of understanding is to promote cooperation between eurojust and the ohim within the respective mandates of both agencies. it is important to note that the exchange of information or experience referred to in this memorandum of understanding does not cover the transfer of operational information, including data relating to a person whose identity has been established or is likely to be established.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to amend regulation no 609/2014 by including a number of questions and clarifications of a more technical nature. i support the proposals set out to provide for effective rules on how member states should make timely contributions to the union budget. it should be noted that the commission has the possibility of requesting the member states to pay the third twelfth of the vat and gni-based resources during the first half of the year, in order to enable the commission to reduce the higher share of late payments in previous years. it is important not only to provide for more incentives for late payment by providing for higher payments for late payments, but also to ensure proportionality by providing that the increase in the interest rate cannot exceed the limit of 20 percentage points. i support calls on the commission to examine the recommendations on the accounting methods for national contributions to the union budget, which vary widely, in order to facilitate comparisons between member states. i agree that the own resources system remains too complex and needs to be fundamentally restructured under the next multiannual financial framework.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its approval, with minor amendments, of the council regulation on the methods and modalities of the provision of own resources based on vat and gni and on the arrangements for meeting cash requirements. in its communication, parliament notes that, in general, member states have paid all their vat and gni-based contributions to the union budget without undue delay, even in times of crisis and very high fiscal constraints. however, in order to meet the cash needs, the provisioning and adjustment of member states' contributions to the union budget should not be subject to political negotiation but should be a technical process. in that report, parliament also asked it to submit annually a report on the calculation and supporting data of vat and gni adjustments to the balance sheet, as well as the dates and amounts of the contributions of the member states to the union budget, in order to ensure maximum transparency.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the option granted to the commission to ask member states for the payment of 3/12th of vat and gni resources in the first half of the year, in order to allow the commission to reduce a more important part of the previous year’s payment backlog in the european agriculture guarantee fund and in the european structural and investment funds, and to reduce default interest.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. in particular, it is essential to allow member states, under certain conditions, to defer payments and to transfer the adjusted amounts of vat resources and additional resources in instalments. in this context, it is necessary to lay down rules governing the timely presentation by member states of their contributions to the union budget in order to enable the commission to manage its treasury effectively. the objective of each state is to ensure macroeconomic stability and economic development in the country. in order to help national treasuries to manage the financing of possible adjustments more efficiently, the deadline for the transmission of data should be postponed and the date for the submission of amounts should be adjusted. this would facilitate the conduct of effective public finance policies by member states and ensure their economic and financial stability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the report by which parliament decided to waive the immunity of georgios kyrtsos, a greek member of the european parliament. georgios kyrtsos is accused of not paying part of the salary of one of his former employees before becoming a member of the european parliament and as the head of two newspaper companies. the decision to waive the immunity was taken by the european parliament after it had assessed that there was no reason to suspect that the criminal case had been brought with the aim of harming the political activities of the member, since the criminal proceedings had been initiated several years before the member's entry into office as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ my vote on the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of georgios kyrtsos was decided by the fact that it is our duty to remove any obstacles to the investigation and to clear the path for the right and just decision to be made.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the report by which parliament decided to waive the immunity of stelios kouloglou, a greek member of the european parliament. stelios kouloglou is accused of defamation and discrediting the staff of patras prison for statements he allegedly made in the press in 2010 (at that time he was a journalist mainly reporting for television) about the integrity of certain staff of patras prison. parliament decided to waive the immunity of mr stelios kouloglou because there is no reason to suspect that the criminal case was brought with the aim of harming the political activities of a member of parliament (fumus persecutionis), given that the criminal proceedings were initiated several years before the member of parliament took up his duties as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ my vote on the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of stelios kouloglou was decided by the fact that it is our duty to remove any obstacles for the investigation and to clear the path for the right and just decision to be made.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to mobilise the egf to help finland to support the reintegration of workers made redundant in 69 companies active in the field of computer programming. the egf is intended to provide a total amount of eur 2 623 200. this will support 1 200 of the 1 603 redundant workers. the redundancies were due to changes affecting nokia in recent years, which had a significant impact on the finnish ict sector. thousands of finnish residents have been employed in nokia's development and design of mobile phone operating systems, particularly in the oulu region, and these functions are currently being transferred to countries outside europe. the tailor-made services to be provided to redundant workers include counselling, employment and business services, training, wage subsidies, etc.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it was the report in which parliament gave its support to the european globalisation adjustment fund for redundant workers. finland submitted an application egf/2015/005 fi/computer programming for financial assistance from the egf, following the redundancies of 1 603 workers in 69 companies active in computer programming and consultancy activities throughout finland. this support is expected to benefit some 1 200 redundant workers. in recent years, the distribution of jobs in the ict sector between the union and other countries has changed to the detriment of the union. in 2008, the finnish technology industry employed a total of 326 000 people, compared to 276 000 in 2014 resulting in an average annual reduction of 3% of the workforce (10 000 employees). these exemptions are due to developments affecting 'nokia' in recent years, which have had a significant impact on the finnish ict sector. thousands of finnish residents were employed in the development and design of nokia mobile phone operating systems and these functions are now being transferred to countries outside europe.
in writing. ‒ in recent years the distribution of ict sector employment between the european union and other economies has developed to the detriment of the european union. whereas in 2008 the technology industry employed a total of 326 000 people in finland, the number of people employed by such companies in 2014 was 276 000, which corresponds to an average decline per year of about 3% (10 000 workers). it should be pointed out that the events giving rise to these redundancies are the developments affecting nokia in recent years, which have had a major impact on the ict sector in finland. that is why i have voted for this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report and i support the proposal to grant financial support to the finnish company. support for dismissed workers is essential. it shall be dynamic and available as quickly and efficiently as possible. it should be noted that the ict sector has been the backbone of the region's economy. the high number of redundancies has had a very negative impact on employment levels and the local economy, and has had a painful social impact. it is therefore essential to help redundant workers change their qualifications, set up a business or find a new job as soon as possible. it is to be welcomed that the finnish government acted expeditiously and started to provide the affected workers with personalised services without waiting for a decision on the egf support. it should be noted that the financial support provided will help to redesign and implement measures for professional careers, encourage retraining, improve job search skills.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to reform the system of trade mark registration. the reorganisation would make this registration cheaper, faster and more predictable. the new rules, agreed with the eu council in april this year, will also give the authorities the power to seize counterfeits that are being transported across the eu. the updated rules maintain the possibility of registering a trade mark either in a specific eu country or across the union and offer simpler registration and the possibility of registering new trade marks, such as sound. at the same time, the fees for renewal of the trade mark registration are reduced.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it gives parliament its support for a partial amendment to eu law on the eu trade mark. in 2009, a council regulation established a specific system of trade mark protection in the european union, providing for trade mark protection at the level of the european union in parallel to the protection of trade marks under national trade mark systems at the level of the member states. the experience gained since the establishment of the community trade mark system has shown that the system has been adopted by undertakings in the union and in third countries and has become a successful and viable alternative and complementary system to the protection of trade marks at member state level. however, national trade marks remain necessary for those undertakings which do not wish to protect their trade marks at union level or which cannot obtain union-wide protection but can obtain national protection without obstacles.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 207/2009 on the community trade mark and commission regulation (ec) no 2868/95 implementing council regulation (ec) no 40/94 on the community trade mark, and repealing commission regulation (ec) no 2869/95 on the fees payable to the office for harmonisation in the internal market (trade marks and designs). i think that parliament’s main targets have been achieved. the trade mark system will be modernised, the agreement will respect and strengthen the dual system of national and european trade mark protection by building on best practices and respecting the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. i support the position presented, which aims to modernise the trade mark system. it should be noted that the trade mark strengthens the consumer's connection with goods and services. the eu must be effective. it is therefore necessary not only to establish the rights of trade mark proprietors, but also to ensure the protection of those rights and effective redress in the event of infringement. a uniform procedure should be applied to simplify trade mark policy throughout europe. in particular, trademark registration systems must be made more accessible and efficient across the eu. we need to foster innovation and economic growth. it should be noted that the importance of trade marks in local, regional and international trade is increasing every year. it is therefore essential to reduce the administrative burden for businesses and to ensure legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because it supports the council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports the european parliament's and the council's directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks. directive 2008/95/ec of the european parliament and of the council needs to be amended in order to clarify the wording of that directive. in 2008, that directive harmonised the main substantive provisions of trade mark law which, as they were considered at the time of its adoption, had a direct impact on the functioning of the internal market by creating obstacles to the free movement of goods and the freedom to provide services within the union.
in writing. i agree with the report. trade mark registration systems must be simplified and of a higher quality. they should be more compatible with each other and be publicly available and in line with technological progress. it is therefore essential to harmonise the trademark registration systems of the eu member states. the implementation of the measures set out in the communication would make these systems more efficient, cheaper, simpler, faster, more predictable and provide greater legal certainty. more attention should be paid to the protection and management of trade marks. the inconsistencies in the current regulatory framework need to be reduced and existing barriers and burdens on businesses removed. the trade mark laws of the member states should be more closely aligned with the community trade mark system. further efforts are therefore needed to further harmonise national trademark laws and procedures. it is also essential to improve cooperation between trade mark offices.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to amend regulation (eu) no 1236/2010 in order to incorporate it into union law by the recommendations of the north east atlantic fisheries commission (neafc). the main amendment to the regulation concerns the harmonisation of the control system of the fao agreement on the harmonization of port state competence measures to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the measures introduced by this amendment will ensure the long-term conservation and optimum exploitation of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic, thus ensuring sustainable outcomes for the benefit of both the environment and society. new measures should have already been included in regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 establishing a community control system for ensuring compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the amendment of the partial regulation establishing the control and enforcement system applicable to the convention on multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries. for example, one of the amendments concerns the establishment of port state measures to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the amendments also clarify that vessels involved in transhipment operations in the regulatory area and transhipping fish must notify the port of landing, whether the landing takes place in a port within or outside the convention area.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. it is necessary to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum exploitation of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic. it also aims to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. it should be noted that the economic viability of the fishing sector depends on the sustainable use of marine resources, the management, conservation and recovery of fish stocks, rational planning and maintenance. fisheries policy must be implemented with a view to achieving benefits for both the environment and society. it is therefore essential to transpose the recommendations adopted by the neafc into the eu legal framework and to implement them as soon as possible. only an effective common control and enforcement system will ensure sustainability, facilitate sustainable economic and social development and promote the competitiveness of the fisheries sector.
in writing. the main amendment to regulation (eu) no 1236/2010 concerns the control system of the fao agreement on the harmonization of port state competence measures for the prevention, deterrence and elimination of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the measures introduced by this amendment will ensure the long-term conservation and optimum exploitation of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic, thus ensuring sustainable outcomes for the benefit of both the environment and society.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal to suspend the application of the exclusive trade measure to bosnia and herzegovina. the commission proposal under consideration proposes three main amendments to the basic regulation no 1215/2009: first, the extension of the current preferences until the end of 2020. the purpose of the extension is to allow beneficiary countries additional time to adjust their preferences under the basic regulation to the stabilisation and association agreement. secondly, the inclusion of human rights provisions in the regulation on autonomous trade measures. it provides for the possibility of suspending the application of preferences in cases of serious violations by a beneficiary country of fundamental principles of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are necessary to restore the situation of the union industry. i support the proposals set out to confirm the eu's firm commitment to further integration into the eu of the countries covered by this regulation by granting unilateral trade preferences.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it confirmed parliament's position on the amendment of the regulation establishing exceptional trade measures for countries participating in or linked to the eu's stabilisation and association process and the suspension of its application to bosnia and herzegovina. trade between the eu and the western balkans has been liberalised under a number of stabilisation and association agreements that the eu has applied since 2000. these amendments introduce three important changes to the regulation: the extension of the current preferences until the end of 2020, the inclusion of provisions on human rights in the regulation on autonomous trade measures and the temporary suspension of the application of the autonomous trade measures to bosnia and herzegovina as from 1 january 2016. following the accession of croatia to the eu in 2013, bosnia and herzegovina has not yet agreed to adapt the interim agreement to take account of the traditional preferential trade between croatia and bosnia and herzegovina under the central european free trade agreement. after three rounds of negotiations with bosnia and herzegovina, no agreement was reached. according to bosnia and herzegovina, this would only be possible if the eu offered additional concessions. in view of the impasse and the damage to the eu's commercial interests, the commission proposes that the automatic extension of the automatic trade measures to bosnia and herzegovina should not be granted automatically, but should be conditional on bosnia and herzegovina's acceptance of the eu methodology for the adaptation of the interim agreement.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 introducing exceptional trade measures for countries and territories participating in or linked to the european union’s stabilisation and association process and suspending its application with regard to bosnia and herzegovina. i agree on the suspension of exceptional trade measures with regard to bosnia and herzegovina because it would be preferable for this agreement to be adopted after the new europol regulation has entered into force, following the new enhanced procedure and abiding by the rigorous new provisions and safeguards.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. in view of the current situation, i believe that a temporary suspension of the autonomous trade measures should be applied to bosnia and herzegovina. it is an effective and fair measure, not intended to punish. this measure should provide an incentive for bosnia and herzegovina to resume negotiations. in particular, the dispute over the adaptation of the interim agreement to croatia's accession to the eu must be resolved as soon as possible. the eu methodology for the adaptation of the interim agreement shall be agreed by bosnia and herzegovina. continuous monitoring and transparency are required to resolve this issue as quickly as possible. in view of the further plans for the future, bosnia and herzegovina must fulfil all the conditions laid down. it is also essential to ensure the proper implementation of human rights.
in writing. ‒ madam president,the purpose of the communication is to give beneficiary countries additional time to adjust their benefits under the basic regulation to those under the stabilisation and association agreement and/or the interim agreement. after three rounds of negotiations with bosnia and herzegovina, no agreement was reached. in contrast to the eu methodology, bosnia and herzegovina considers that it cannot increase its preferences to the level of traditional trade. in view of the impasse and the damage to the eu's commercial interests, the commission rightly proposes that the automatic extension of the automatic trade measures to bosnia and herzegovina should not be granted automatically, but should be conditional on bosnia and herzegovina agreeing to the eu methodology for the adaptation of the interim agreement. it is therefore necessary to adopt new legal decisions as soon as possible. that is also why i decided to support the report.
in writing. this provision provides for the possibility of suspending the application of preferences in cases where a beneficiary country commits serious and systematic violations of the fundamental principles of human rights, democracy and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which seeks to approve the strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the united arab emirates. exchange of information in the areas of specific knowledge, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures, crime prevention methods, training activities, as well as consultation and assistance in specific criminal investigations. i agree that cooperation between europol and the uae is essential and that the uae's role in the fight against organised crime is becoming increasingly important as the country becomes a growing centre of economic and financial crime. the agreement would contribute to the fight against fraud in the financial sector and would strengthen that fight, as well as contribute to international cooperation in the field of financial crime investigations and other relevant criminal proceedings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports the council's proposal to approve the strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the united arab emirates. the strategic agreement does not include the exchange of personal data, so the issue of data protection is not relevant in this case. this agreement will in future provide for exchanges of information in the areas of specialised knowledge, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures, crime prevention methods, training activities, as well as advice and assistance in specific criminal investigations. it is clear that cooperation between europol and the united arab emirates is necessary from an operational point of view. according to europol, the uae's role in the fight against organised crime is becoming increasingly important as the country becomes a growing centre for economic and financial crime. proceeds from criminal activities such as value added tax (vat) fraud, intra-community carousel fraud and money laundering are reinvested in the uae and the main perpetrators of these fraudulent activities seek sanctuary there.
in writing. ‒ i have not in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the agreement on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism between the united arab emirates and europol. this proposal for a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and united arab emirates should provide the exchange of information including specialist knowledge, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime-prevention methods, training activities, and the provision of advice and support in individual criminal investigations, but i believe that it would be right to await for a new agreement under the terms of the new europol regulation, which would give the ep a stronger role in the process and offer enhanced safeguards.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report and i am in favour of the conclusion of the agreement. in view of the current situation and the continuously growing threat of terrorism, cooperation between europol and the united arab emirates is essential. it should be noted that the fight against terrorism is considered a priority in the european union. in order to increase the effectiveness of the prevention of and fight against serious crime, it is necessary to support and strengthen the action of the competent authorities of the member states and their cooperation with each other. i believe that this agreement will strengthen the fight against financial fraud. it is also a highly effective instrument for strengthening international cooperation in the investigation of financial crimes and other major criminal cases.
in writing. ‒ mr president,as a member of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i fully endorsed the report on a number of issues of importance to the security of citizens. this proposal relates to the proposal for the approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the united arab emirates. this strategic agreement is important in the fight against terrorism. the exchange of information could take place in the areas of specific knowledge, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures, crime prevention methods. prevention in relation to these issues is essential and its role in the fight against organised crime is becoming increasingly important.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report on towards a european energy union because i strongly believe that european energy union is a key pillar in the eu long-term energy strategy. it sets an important cornerstone for a fully open and free common energy market, ensuring compliance with the highest environmental and efficiency standards while stimulating economic competitiveness. it is also of utmost importance for some countries, including my home country, that are heavily dependent on suppliers outside the eu. in close cooperation member states will have access to the cleanest and most cost effective sources of energy without being exposed to politically and economically unreliable third country suppliers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. first, the eu's national and regional isolation from the internal energy market must be removed as soon as possible. a voluntary mechanism should also be set up to allow eu countries to buy energy resources together. it is essential to ensure that a uniform position is maintained and the role of the commission is strengthened in negotiations with third parties. the commission should carry out ex ante and ex post assessments and draw up a list of favourable and unfavourable terms of agreements. the eu energy efficiency target after 2020 should be mandatory. it is also essential that the eu adheres to its 2030 emissions reduction target of at least 40%. it should be noted that energy is a social asset of society and that the issue of energy poverty should be addressed and concrete measures taken to address this problem as a matter of urgency. in view of the importance of nuclear energy, member states wishing to implement new projects should be given a favourable opportunity. particular attention should be paid to the increase in capacity of the nordstream pipeline and the possible negative impact on the eu as a whole. the commission should also pay attention to hydraulic fracturing, which is a risky activity with negative effects on the climate, the environment and public health. therefore, exploration for and exploitation of shale gas should be avoided.
in writing. ‒ mr president,although i am not satisfied with all the amendments adopted by parliament on this subject, i have voted in favour of the report, because the creation of the european energy union is a good goal for the future. european energy policy must ensure the functioning of the energy market and the security of energy supply, as well as promoting energy efficiency. the development of renewable forms of energy and the interconnection of energy networks should be encouraged. a draft model of the future eu electricity market is needed to encourage investments in a more market-oriented way to ensure long-term supply.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it sets out parliament's position on how the european electricity grid should be made compliant by 2020. in its report, parliament notes that electricity interconnections are one of the key conditions for achieving our climate change objectives, including the eu's ambition to become a leader in renewable energy, and to improve the eu's geopolitical position by ensuring greater energy security and independence and reducing energy isolation, and will reduce the potential for disruption of energy supply. the increased capacity of the european grid will allow the development of a strategy that will lead to a more flexible and resilient grid, better prepared for a wide range of changes and disruptions, and will enable the efficient integration of more and more renewable energy into the european grid. the report also draws the commission's attention to the growing importance of information and communication technologies in electricity networks, which are increasing cyber threats to the security of electricity systems, and asks the commission to assess the risks to the security of the electricity system and, if necessary, to draw up an action plan to combat the threats.
in writing. ‒ i see the commission communication and strategy as a positive step towards achieving the 10% electricity interconnection target and improving the functioning of the internal electricity market in the eu.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. the interconnection of electricity markets is essential to ensure security of energy supply. i agree with the 10% target for total electricity interconnections. at the same time, however, it is essential to encourage individual regions to agree on more ambitious, evidence-based convergence targets by 2030. it should be noted that a fully integrated electricity market will provide more reliable and secure electricity systems. the electricity grids will be able to better manage the increasing amount of energy from renewable sources. it will also allow consumers to save money and increase choice. particular attention should be paid to regional cooperation, in particular in the baltic sea region. it is essential to ensure that by then this region will be an equal participant in the management of the single european electricity market and system.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to assess the implementation of the progress microfinance facility. microcredit is not only available in developing countries, but also in europe. however, in europe they are primarily a social policy instrument designed to provide opportunities for people with social difficulties. other funding opportunities exist to promote smes and innovative ideas. i agree that the eu's concept of microcredit should be revised and adapted to today's realities. this also applies to the maximum amount of credit, which may not be sufficient in all eu countries. it is important that the possibility for non-banks to act as microcredit intermediaries should be introduced in all member states. expert assistance in the preparation of the business plan and in the verification and monitoring of the business idea should be financed under the employment and social innovation programme.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is the parliament's position on the implementation of the european microfinance facility progress. this measure aims at improving access to and availability of microfinance for people who have lost or are at risk of losing their jobs or who have difficulty entering or re-entering the labour market, as well as for people at risk of social exclusion or vulnerable people who are not in a favourable position to use the services of the normal credit market and who wish to set up or further expand their micro-enterprises, including self-employment. parliament stressed the importance of a financial instrument such as the microfinance facility in creating new businesses, stimulating job creation and ensuring access to finance for the unemployed, disadvantaged people and micro-enterprises in the context of the financial crisis. however, it notes that the impact in terms of job creation was less than initially expected, despite the fact that many beneficiaries would not have had access to the credit market at all if micro-credit had not been available. parliament also regrets the high number of rejected microfinance applications and the persisting gaps in the microfinance market, despite the increase in the number of recipients of microcredit. parliament therefore calls on the commission to investigate in more detail the reasons for the rejection of these applications and to find ways of addressing the problems.
in writing. ‒ i believe microfinance contributes to meeting the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and can lift people out of poverty and unemployment, give them dignity and enhance cohesion in communities by improving social inclusion and minimising social divergences
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. progress is a highly effective tool to help disadvantaged people return to the labour market and reintegrate into society. it provides opportunities for such persons to start a business and at the same time contributes to job creation. it should be noted that difficulties in obtaining financing are one of the main obstacles faced by start-up entrepreneurs. given the positive impact of this measure on employment and social inclusion, there is a need to increase the availability of microfinance. i think it is appropriate to rethink the concept of microcredit in the light of today's realities. in order to facilitate access to microcredit, the list of target groups should be extended to include the long-term unemployed, young people, low-income earners, low-skilled workers and the disabled. however, refugees and asylum seekers should not have been included in that list.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to establish a framework for the technical instruments and multiannual plans of the cfp. one of the objectives of the cfp reform implemented in 2013 was to achieve the highest sustainable yield. the main means of conservation are: technical measures and multiannual plans. however, very little progress has been made since 2009 in the adoption of legislative acts, both on technical measures and on multiannual plans. i support the proposals made to speed up the preparation of these plans, to increase the effective involvement of stakeholders in their preparation and development and to adopt them as soon as possible. i agree that future technical measures should be simple and clear, so that fishermen can understand them better. they should be adapted as far as possible to the specific characteristics of each fishery and each region. it is important that more fishermen are involved in the decision-making process, including all the nuances of the technical measures. in addition, incentives must be provided to ensure that those measures are implemented.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is the parliament's position on the implementation of the common fisheries policy. the report expresses concern that the legislative acts of 2009 have made very little progress on technical measures and multiannual plans. the communication recalls that one of the objectives of the common fisheries policy is to restore and maintain populations of harvested species at levels which can ensure the maximum sustainable yield, while respecting an ecosystem- and selectivity-based approach, and that technical measures and multiannual plans are one of the main means of achieving these objectives. parliament called for a review of the technical measures to achieve the objectives of the cfp, for improved selectivity, for the minimisation of discharges and the environmental impact of fishing, for the simplification of the current rules and for the extension of the scientific basis.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. in particular, a coherent set of technical measures should be established for the main basins, taking into account the specificities of each basin. future technical measures should be simplified to facilitate their understanding by fishermen. it is essential to ensure that these measures are adapted to the specificities of each fishery and each region, on the basis of scientific findings. it is necessary to prohibit the use of explosive and toxic substances and to encourage the wider use of innovative fishing gear that increases selectivity and reduces environmental impact. fishermen should be given a greater role. they should be provided with financial and other support measures. moreover, efforts are needed to ensure the proper implementation of the discard ban.
in writing. the objective of the technical measures is to prevent the capture and other harvesting of juveniles. the system is essentially composed of three regulations, based on three sets of rules for different geographical areas (the baltic sea, the mediterranean sea and the atlantic and other waters). the co-decision procedure will be required for the future adoption of a regulation on technical measures in order to ensure a level playing field and to facilitate enforcement and control.
commissioner, the facts of the luxleaks scandal are shocking. the union's unreceived revenue represents, at most, around 50% of the total annual budget of the union. these abuses took place in the richest, most solidarity-oriented country in the european union. and it's being done at a time when everyone is tightening their belts to fight the crisis. it should also be noted that aggressive tax avoidance practices have become a daily operating strategy of large corporations. it's not just law enforcement that needs to draw conclusions from this case, but we politicians as well. the report welcomes the emphasis on measures to improve tax administration and transparency. at the same time, i would like to stress that i welcome the recommendations on simplifying the common tax policy of the european union. first, to prevent businesses from creating fraud rings.
in writing. today we are discussing a very important issue. the number of people in need worldwide has more than doubled since 2004, and according to the un, 250 million people are suffering from a humanitarian crisis. this problem is particularly acute for the most displaced people since the second world war, almost 60 million people. these are frightening facts which we, as the european community, cannot ignore. most humanitarian crises are caused by human activities. as a result, up to 80% of eu international humanitarian aid is delivered in the face of man-made crises, where political decisions are the first priority, followed by economic ones. we have to remember that. the inextricable link between poverty and the conditions conducive to crises makes it all the more necessary to address the root causes of crises. in order to be effective and efficient, humanitarian aid must reach the affected population. this requires tackling the abuse and organised crime that exploit people and their misery and harm. in the development of whs, the european union should encourage the adoption of actions to ensure that affected communities, in particular women and children, have access to adequate medical and food assistance. the european union should continue to emphasise the key role of ngos in humanitarian action, as they are the closest to those who are most vulnerable.
in writing. i am pleased that the european commission has finally put forward a proposal for a european accessibility act which will set common accessibility requirements for certain key products and services, and will help to ensure full participation of people with disabilities in society at european union (eu) level. i have repeatedly called on the commission to come forward as soon as possible with this very important initiative for disabled people, and i congratulate the commission on finally having a concrete proposal for a directive. the proposal for a directive aims to help companies to provide accessible products and services at cross-border level and, at the same time, to improve the functioning of the internal market. the common accessibility requirements will also apply to eu procurement procedures and the use of eu funds. this initiative will stimulate innovation and help increase the supply of accessible products and services to some 80 million disabled people in the eu. the relevant products and services shall be carefully selected in consultation with citizens and civil society organisations, as well as with businesses. these services and products include atms and banking services, computers, telephones and television equipment, telephony and audiovisual services, transport, e-books and e-commerce. we will now work in the european parliament to improve this commission proposal for a directive on a european accessibility act and i hope that together with the member states we will adopt the right european legislation to ensure accessibility to all essential services and products and equal rights for all disabled people in europe.
the agenda for the european council meeting will be rather full, but i would like to ask you about something else. can it be constructive? and here's why. it seems that we are going to cover all the important topics, but unfortunately we are not going to focus on the most important ones. perhaps it is because we have not yet been able to find a common denominator to name this most important topic. which of these: refugees, the planned referendum in the uk, or perhaps the euro area and its recession, or perhaps the situation in syria, perhaps in ukraine, the fight against terrorism, the management of the migration crisis, the european union's relations with russia, the development of the nordstream pipeline or the uk's proposals for reform of the european union. in the light of the commission's communication, the european council will examine the creation of a single european market in all its aspects. the governing council will also discuss the energy union, the digital single market and the capital markets union. i think the agenda for the european council meeting should be much more specific and focus on a few issues. the number one problem in europe today, in my view, is the migrant crisis. and it's in this space that we're looking for the best answers and solutions to this problem. we're short on quotas. we need to find another option. we don't like the border controls, so let's come up with other solutions. the uk's questions about the referendum seem problematic, so let's find a sensible answer to them. but to meet again, to go over the issues again without offering a concrete, operational plan of action to resolve them, is a public deception.
in writing. ‒ on 8 september 2015, the eba's supervisory board proposed to extend the mandate of the current president of the eba, mr andrea enri, for a further five years. on 17 november 2015, the economic and monetary committee held a hearing with the current president of the eib, mr andrea enria, during which the president made an introductory speech and answered questions from members of the committee. i support the proposal to extend the mandate of the president of the eba, mr andrea enri, for a further five years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the report by which parliament gave its consent to the extension of the mandate of the president of the european banking authority (eba). the chairperson of the eba was appointed by the supervisory board of the eba in 2011 following an open selection procedure for a term of five years, renewable once with the consent of the european parliament. on 8 september 2015, the board of supervisors of the eba proposed to extend the mandate of the current president of the eba, mr andrea enri, for a further period of five years and informed the european parliament accordingly, which gave its consent to the extension.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report, having regard to the proposal of the board of supervisors of the european banking authority (eba) of 8 september 2015 to extend the term of office of the chairperson of the eba by another five-year term (c8-0313/2015)
in writing. ‒ on 30 september 2015, the supervisory board of eiopa proposed to extend the term of office of the current president of eiopa, mr gabriel bernardino, for a further five years. on 17 november 2015, the economic and monetary committee held a hearing with the current chair of eiopa, mr gabriel bernardino, during which the chair made an introductory speech and answered questions from members of the committee. i support the proposal to extend the mandate of mr gabriel bernardino, president of eiopa, for a further five years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because parliament gave its support to the extension of the mandate of the president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa). the chairperson of eiopa was appointed by the supervisory board of eiopa in 2011, following an open selection procedure, for a term of five years, which may be renewed once, subject to the consent of the european parliament. on 30 september 2015, the supervisory board of eiopa proposed to extend the mandate of the current president of eiopa, mr gabriel bernardino, for a further period of five years and informed the european parliament accordingly, which gave its consent to the extension.
in writing. ‒ i have voted, having regard to the proposal of the board of supervisors of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) of 30 september 2015, to extend the term of office of the chairperson of the eiopa by another five-year term (c8-0314/2015)
in writing. ‒ on 24 september 2015, esma's supervisory board made a proposal to extend the term of office of the current chairman of esma, mr steven mayor, for a further five years. on 17 november 2015, the economic and monetary committee held a hearing with the current chair of esma, steven major, during which the chair made an introductory speech and answered questions from members of the committee. i support the proposal to extend the term of office of esma's chairman, mr steven major, for a further five years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because parliament gave its consent to the extension of the mandate of the president of the european securities and markets authority (esma). the chairperson of esma was appointed by the supervisory board of esma in 2011, following an open selection procedure, for a term of five years, renewable once with the consent of the european parliament. on 24 september 2015, esma's supervisory board made a proposal to extend the term of office of the current chair of esma, mr steven major, for a further period of five years and informed the european parliament accordingly, which gave its consent to the extension.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report including the proposal of the board of supervisors of the european securities and markets authority (esma) of 24 september 2015 to extend the term of office of the chairperson of the esma by another five-year term.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and europol. i support the calls on the commission to evaluate the provisions of the cooperation agreement, in particular those relating to data protection, once the new europol regulation has entered into force.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's endorsement of the european police office (europol) concluding an operational and strategic cooperation agreement between bosnia and herzegovina and europol. under eu law, europol is required to conclude agreements with third countries included in the list established by decision 2009/935/jha. such agreements shall aim at supporting and strengthening the action of the competent authorities of the member states and their mutual cooperation in preventing and combating organised crime, terrorism and other forms of serious crime affecting two or more member states, and may involve the exchange of information of an operational, strategic or technical nature, including personal data and classified information. bosnia and herzegovina is included in the list established by decision 2009/935/jha and, therefore, in order to increase the effectiveness of the prevention of and fight against serious crime, in particular in view of the fact that bosnia and herzegovina is a potential candidate country and a close neighbour of the union with which there are many contacts and exchanges, europol has initiated the procedure for the conclusion of an operational and strategic cooperation agreement between bosnia and herzegovina and europol. parliament is in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ my vote was decided by the fact that it would be much preferable for this proposed international cooperation agreement to be adopted after the new europol regulation has entered into force, following the new enhanced procedure and abiding by the rigorous new provisions and safeguards.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. i agree to the conclusion of an operational and strategic cooperation agreement between bosnia and herzegovina and europol. in particular, this agreement will strengthen the action of the competent authorities of the member states and their cooperation with each other in the areas of the prevention of, and fight against, organised crime, terrorism and other forms of serious crime. it should be noted that bosnia and herzegovina is a potential candidate country and neighbour of the eu. it is therefore important to continuously develop cooperation, in particular to ensure the effective prevention of and fight against serious crime. the operational and strategic cooperation agreement will ensure the efficient and secure exchange of information of an operational, strategic or technical nature, including personal data and classified information.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to mobilise the egf for ireland to support the integration into the labour market of workers made redundant by pwa international ltd as a result of the economic crisis. ireland submitted an application egf/2015/006 ie/pwa international for a financial contribution from the egf, following the redundancies in the machinery and equipment repair business of pwa international ltd, which involved 108 workers. the irish authorities have stated that the redundancies at pwa international are due to the closure of pwai as the company has decided to consolidate its operations in north america and asia as a result of the new trend of relocating rpkr's operations closer to global aviation development centres and the negative impact of global trade agreements. the tailored services to be provided to redundant workers include guidance and career planning, egf training grants, training and further education programmes, higher education programmes and temporary allowances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it was the report by which parliament approved the granting of support from the european globalisation adjustment fund to 108 redundant workers from the irish company 'pwa international ltd (pwai) ' (repair and installation of machinery and equipment). ireland specialised in the repair, maintenance and overhaul sector in the last decade of the last century and this was a useful activity at the time, but the new trend of moving these activities closer to the centres of global aviation development, i.e. asia, and the negative impact of global trade agreements have made such activities highly vulnerable. the activities of this sector have been severely affected in europe, particularly in ireland, following the closure of sr technics in 2009, lufthansa technik airmotive ireland in 2014 and the loss of approximately 1 520 jobs.
in writing. ‒ the regulation reflects the agreement reached between parliament and the council to reintroduce the crisis mobilisation criterion, to set the union financial contribution at 60 % of the total estimated cost of proposed measures, to increase efficiency for the treatment of egf applications in the commission and by parliament and the council by shortening the time for assessment and approval, to widen eligible actions and beneficiaries by the addition of self-employed persons and young people, and to finance incentives for setting up one’s own businesses.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. i agree to grant financial support to the irish company. it is essential to ensure that dismissed workers are provided with dynamic, accessible and effective support to help them find employment as quickly as possible. active labour market policy measures must therefore be adequately funded. it should be noted that the closure of the pwai further aggravated the situation of the region, which already had a high unemployment rate, and had a very negative impact not only on the regional but also on the national economy. in this context, it is essential to provide workers with rapid assistance and to enable them to make effective use of the means adapted to their individual needs. it is to be welcomed that this application was examined with great speed and that the irish authorities started to provide the aid measures much earlier.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which asks the commission to withdraw its draft implementing regulation and to submit to the committee a new draft listing invasive alien species of union concern. the first commission proposal omits many of the most problematic invasive alien species, while it includes some species that are unlikely to have a significant negative impact on biodiversity, ecosystem functions, human health or the economy, or for which the measures to be applied would incur disproportionate costs. since the reasons for including species in the union list are based on political rather than scientific criteria, i agree with the need to submit a new draft regulation.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution because it was the parliament's decision to ask the commission to withdraw its draft implementing regulation containing the list of invasive alien species of union concern and to submit a new draft to parliament. species not included in the initial list submitted by the commission are among the most harmful invasive alien species in europe. however, some land plant and mammal species fulfil the criteria and are subject to a detailed risk assessment, but these species are not included in the union list. the list also excludes mammalian species which are mentioned among the most widespread alien species in europe in recent years and, since the list also excludes widespread and rapidly spreading plant species with significant and well-documented adverse effects on human health. the initial list of the commission has been criticised by several competent national authorities, stakeholders and the general public to such an extent that these stakeholders now have serious doubts about the effectiveness of the future isr regulation, mainly due to the fact that many of the most problematic invasive alien species are not included in that list, while some species are included that are unlikely to have a significant negative impact on biodiversity, ecosystem functions, human health or the economy, or for which the measures to be applied would incur disproportionate costs.
in writing. ‒ my vote was decided by the fact that the regulation is based on an eu list of invasive species of european concern. it is important that this list is comprehensive and based on solid science and risk assessments, as the law requires. the first list which is now being adopted by the commission should not be blocked, but it should be kept under review and be complemented and improved in the coming years.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at repealing commission implementing decision (eu) 2015/2279 of 4 december 2015 authorising the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified maize nk603xt25. on 17 may 2010, the company 'monsanto europe s.a.' made a request for the placing on the market of food containing nk603 × t25 maize. the genetically modified maize contains substances with carcinogenic effects in humans as specified in the application. i support the request to the commission to repeal commission implementing decision (eu) 2015/2279 of 4 december 2015 authorising the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified maize.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because in it parliament decided not to approve the commission's draft implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified maize nk603 × t25 and asked for a new draft decision to be submitted to parliament. on 17 may 2010, the company 'monsanto europe s.a.' submitted to the competent authority of the netherlands an application, in accordance with articles 5 and 17 of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, for the placing on the market of foods, food ingredients, and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from nk603 × t25 maize. the application refers to the presence of glyphosate-containing proteins in genetically modified maize and the international agency for research on cancer the world health organisation's specialized agency for cancer classified glyphosate as a substance with probable human carcinogenicity on 20 march 2015.
in writing. ‒ the gm maize nk603 × t25 is a crop made tolerant to both glyphosate and glufosinate-ammonium-based herbicides. it was produced through the crossing of two previously authorised gm maize varieties and developed by monsanto europe s.a. the commission’s draft implementing act approves the placing on the market of food, food ingredients and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from this maize while the cultivation remains prohibited in the eu. that is why i have voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection to the authorisation of genetically modified maize. this is important for european agriculture and for the safety of the food that reaches consumers. as indicated in the notification, the genetically modified maize contains a protein which confers resistance to the herbicide glyphosate and to the ammonium glyphosate, which has been classified by the international agency for research on cancer as carcinogenic to humans. therefore, an objection on this issue is necessary and any decision should be suspended until a new regulation is adopted.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to improve coordination and transparency in corporate tax policy. i support the recommendations for new rules to increase convergence, transparency and coordination of eu taxation policies. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the tax rulings of the luxembourg tax authorities are in line with the general principles of union law, and that the commission has not provided any evidence that the tax rulings of the luxembourg tax authorities are in line with the general principles of union law. i agree that there is a need to increase transparency in corporate tax policy in the eu significantly. increased transparency in corporate taxation can improve tax collection, increase the efficiency of tax administrators and is crucial to ensuring public confidence in tax systems and governments.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it calls on the commission to propose, while respecting the sovereignty of the member states in the field of tax policy, legislative measures at eu level to increase transparency, coordination and convergence of corporate tax policy in the union. in december 2014, parliament decided to authorise the drawing up of an own-initiative legislative report on enhancing transparency, coordination and convergence of corporate tax policies in the european union. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the tax exemption for the taxable persons in luxembourg is compatible with the internal market. the commission notes that the tax rulings of the tax administration of luxembourg and the tax administration of luxembourg are not based on the tax ruling of the tax administration of luxembourg. such practice should always be unacceptable. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. the non-payment of contributions by certain multinational companies creates unequal conditions of operation which make it difficult for smaller, national companies to compete, which is totally contrary to the principle of the common market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which sets out the ep's views on the future of eu-china relations. the eu-china strategic partnership is of great importance for the eu's relations with the people's republic of china. it is necessary to seek to identify common interests and to address jointly many global issues such as global and regional security, the fight against terrorism and organised crime, cybersecurity, weapons of mass destruction and nuclear non-proliferation, energy security, global financial and market regulation, climate change and sustainable development. i support calls for the eeas to ensure that human rights are at the top of the agenda in relations and dialogues with china.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it expresses parliament's position on the prospects for eu-china relations. in its statement, parliament welcomed the 40th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the eu and china, which should encourage a stronger strategic partnership, so necessary in a multipolar and globalised world, and accelerate the ongoing negotiations on a new partnership and cooperation agreement based on trust, transparency and respect for human rights. parliament stressed that china is a major international power and one of the eu's most important partners and that both sides are committed to promoting a comprehensive eu-china strategic partnership over the next decade, which will benefit both the eu and china. the european parliament also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to strengthen its capacity to combat terrorism. however, parliament is concerned about the dumping and lack of transparency in the context of the chinese government's policy measures and subsidies through tax credits, land subsidies, low-cost credits, subsidised raw materials and other measures. there are also concerns about the obstacles faced by european companies in the chinese market, such as forced technology transfer, insufficient enforcement of intellectual property rights and discrimination.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report on eu-china relations. acknowledging the progress made over the last decades, there are still several areas of moderate or deep concern from the point of view of the european parliament vis-à-vis the people’s republic of china (prc). with this report, amendments and compromises were adopted on human rights, the state of play in tibet and taiwan, freedom of expression, religious liberty, minorities protection or environmental threats.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on eu-china relations, as the 40th anniversary of eu-china diplomatic relations calls for an appropriate response from parliament to strengthen the strategic partnership and accelerate the ongoing negotiations on a new partnership and cooperation agreement. this is important for each eu member state. china is a major international power and one of the eu's most important partners, so member states must maintain a unified position in their dealings with the chinese government. only then will the negotiations be successful and beneficial for all of europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal in order to prepare for the world humanitarian summit. the continuing needs associated with these conflicts and disasters have pushed the humanitarian response system to its limits. given that the gap between humanitarian needs and the activities and financial means to meet them may continue to widen, un secretary-general ban ki-moon called for the first-ever world humanitarian summit (whs). i agree that the eu has the potential to take a leading role. it is very important that the eu should come to istanbul with common positions and speak with one voice in order to influence the negotiations on the final document. it is important that the eu emphasises the key role of ngos in humanitarian action and ensures that their views are taken into account throughout the process.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is a way for parliament to express its position in the run-up to the world humanitarian summit, and to assess the challenges and opportunities of delivering humanitarian aid. the growing challenges of urbanization and rapid population growth, demographic change, the prevalence and intensity of natural disasters, the situation of the environment, degradation, desertification, climate change, various long-term and simultaneous conflicts affecting the region, resource scarcity, as well as poverty, inequality, migration, displacement and instability, have greatly increased the need for humanitarian response worldwide. parliament therefore welcomed the un decision to convene the first multilateral world summit of stakeholders on humanitarian issues and the turkish readiness to host it. it also called on the member states to support the world humanitarian summit and the council in reaching firm conclusions, with specific commitments and priority areas for action, while at the same time pursuing operational efficiency, common quality standards, better coordination and partnerships with new donors, based on a politically neutral approach to aid and a common understanding of the principles of humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence, and in compliance with and implementation of commitments under international humanitarian law.
in writing. ‒ the un secretary-general called for a first-ever world humanitarian summit (whs) to be held in istanbul in may 2016. in a world being faced with unprecedented humanitarian crisis there is a clear call to shift focus from response to prevention.
in writing. i stress that addressing the current extraordinary humanitarian challenges requires the world humanitarian summit to strengthen a more inclusive, diverse and truly global humanitarian aid system, while recognising the diversity of today's humanitarian response system and taking into account the complementary roles of all actors; i call on the eu to promote a global consensus on humanitarian aid, reaffirming the principles and obligations of humanitarian aid and rights under international humanitarian law and ensuring safeguards that are human-centred and human rights-based, and i also believe that governments are accountable for their role and responsibility in protecting people.
in writing. ‒ the decline in capacity and jobs in the european steel industry is driven by a decline in demand demand in 2014 was 40 million tonnes lower than in 2007. i agree that the eu steel and aluminium sector needs to be modernised with a view to energy efficiency and environmental sustainability. it is important to ensure that industrial policy has the tools and resources needed to make a successful transition to low-carbon technologies, which will not be possible without strategic control of the base metals industry.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is a report which parliament is putting forward for the creation of a sustainable european industry in the base metals sector. the decrease in capacity and employment in the european steel industry is driven by a decrease in demand in 2014 demand was 40 million tonnes lower than in 2007. the capacity has changed to the extent that, once demand recovers, europe will suffer from a historic trade deficit, which will lead to dependency and loss of industrial know-how, with implications for downstream sectors such as automotive, construction and low-carbon technologies. meanwhile, european aluminium plants are closing down as the demand for aluminium in europe has increased in recent years and this is due to the increasing import volumes. parliament therefore calls for industrial policy to be equipped with the tools and resources needed to make a successful transition to low-carbon technologies. while re-use of base metals and the development of a circular economy are vital to the european economy, recycling alone cannot meet the future needs of a continent in transition: for example, wind and solar technologies use up to 90 times more aluminium, 50 times more iron, copper and glass and 15 times more concrete than more traditional thermal power plants (which use oil, gas or nuclear fuel) currently installed for the same capacity.
in writing. ‒ my vote on report on developing a sustainable european industry of base metals was decided by the fact that the report is talking about border carbon adjustment, which would only add more confusion to an already very difficult and heated discussion.
in writing. the european precious metals industry is in a race against time to restore global competitiveness and investment opportunities in europe, addressing the social and environmental challenges facing the sector, which must be addressed in a way that continues to set a global example for corporate social and environmental responsibility. the european market for base metals is under additional pressure from global surpluses, unfair subsidies and third-party dumping, and manufacturing innovation is having a positive impact on employment growth at all stages of the industrial business cycle.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it sets out parliament's position on the situation in hungary. parliament notes that the constitutional, legal and political developments in hungary have raised concerns about the rule of law, democracy and the protection of fundamental rights in recent years and that all these developments may pose a systemic threat to the rule of law in this member state. parliament recalls that all member states must fully respect eu law in their legislative and administrative practice and that all legislation must be based on the fundamental values of the european union, namely democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. the resolution also expresses concern that, by failing to take account of or respond adequately to the concerns of parliament, which it regularly expresses by a majority of its component members, the council and the commission are invoking the principle of loyal cooperation between the institutions enshrined in the eu treaty and recalling the role of the commission as guardian of the treaties in ensuring that national legislation respects democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. parliament therefore reiterates its call on the commission to apply the provisions of the first stage of the eu rule of law framework and thus to initiate without delay a comprehensive monitoring process of the situation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in hungary and to assess whether a situation has arisen in that member state that would create a systemic threat that could escalate into a clear risk of a serious breach under article 7 of the eu treaty.
in writing. ‒ the commission, in its reply to parliament’s oral question adopted on 10 november 2015 by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe), which was not forwarded in due time to the members of the libe committee by parliament’s administration, stated that the conditions for activating the rule of law framework as regards hungary have not been met at this stage. i strongly hope that member states will cooperate and stand together in times of crisis, tackle these crises and strengthen the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ the i voted against the ep resolution because of the situation in hungary. the wording of the resolution, which gives the impression of condemnation, is unacceptable. the hungarian parliament and government were democratically elected, and the resolution seems to forget this. the public supports the recovery of this country and the improvement of its economic situation. the european institutions should not ignore this fact, nor should they brutally interfere in hungary's internal affairs, as this shows a lack of respect for the will of the majority of hungarian citizens, which is the basis of democracy, to rebuild the state. you should consider that before you judge anyone. the content of the resolution is not objective and is full of prejudices and stereotypes. for these reasons, it is not worth endorsing it.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, 2014 was certainly not a good year when it comes to human rights and democracy in the world. 26 pages of the european parliament’s annual report, i believe, is a sad manifestation of this. to me, this only proves two main things. first of all, it is for us, the european union and its member states, to make sure that we will remain an example to be followed. 2014, and now even more so 2015, proved the opposite. the tendencies are rather worrisome. secondly, it is time to come back to the very basics. it is a primary responsibility of the european union to find the ways and means of how to be more effective in dealing with freedom of expression, freedom of thought, conscience and religion and freedom of assembly and association. if it continues like this we may end up with a 2015 report containing 70 pages, i am afraid.
the protection of human rights is often referred to as a priority for the european union. but i do encourage everyone to be honest with themselves and with each other. we often sacrifice human rights for geopolitical reasons. a good example is the human rights situation in belarus and turkey. today, relations with belarus are warming up, but have there been any significant changes in the country's human rights record? no, it didn't. the same is true of turkey. there is also no freedom of speech, the media is persecuted by a regime that is not comfortable with it, but turkey has become an important partner because of the refugee crisis. it's strange to me that you're constantly being asked to choose between sacrificing the economy and security or human rights. i call on the commission and parliament to stop playing games and to continue to fight human rights violations by negotiating cooperation with other countries.
the commission's reply was full of talk about the need to protect the biotechnology industry, but i think that protecting farmers' rights should be one of our priorities. we know that most farmers do their own selection. we cannot allow small farmers to be destroyed by having to pay for even the varieties produced by conventional breeding. ladies and gentlemen, today i want to ask the question: who should we protect: the big corporations or farmers and consumers? if you are a farmer, then i urge you to support the green amendments, especially by protecting farmers from being sued for accidentally polluting their varieties with patented plant pollen.
in writing. ‒ the protocol to the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part, takes account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. i therefore approve the conclusion of this protocol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the council decision on the conclusion of the framework agreement between the european union and the socialist republic of vietnam on a comprehensive partnership and cooperation protocol to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. it is a purely legal technical document aimed at integrating croatia into all international agreements signed by the eu after its accession to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the eu-vietnam framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation. this protocol takes into account the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its support for the council decision on the conclusion of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part. the agreement covers areas of cooperation such as the development of principles, norms and standards, raw materials, migration, the fight against organised crime and corruption, industrial policy, smes, tourism, energy, education and culture, environment, climate change and natural resources, agriculture, health, civil society, modernisation of the state and public administration.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part showing my consent to the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a framework agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part. the partnership and cooperation agreement with vietnam underlines the high strategic importance of vietnam as a key partner of the eu in south-east asia. the agreement defines a future broad-based relationship with a view to enhancing further cooperation and overcoming global and regional challenges, such as good governance and the fight against corruption, economic and social progress under the principle of sustainable development, disarmament and weapons of mass destruction, and the fight against terrorism. i support calls on the governments and parliaments of the member states to speed up the ratification process to ensure that the agreement enters into force.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it was the one in which parliament spoke about the development of relations between the eu, its member states and the socialist republic of vietnam. the eu is vietnam's largest export market and the eu, together with its member states, is the largest provider of official development assistance to vietnam. parliament welcomed the conclusion of a comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement with vietnam and stressed the strategic importance of vietnam as a key partner of the eu in south-east asia and asean. this agreement defines a future broad-based relationship with a view to enhancing further cooperation and overcoming global and regional challenges, such as good governance and the fight against corruption, economic and social progress in accordance with the principle of sustainable development, disarmament and weapons of mass destruction, and the fight against terrorism. parliament therefore calls on the governments and parliaments of the member states to speed up the ratification process in order to ensure that the agreement enters into force.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the eu-vietnam framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation (resolution). i welcome the conclusion of the comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement with vietnam underlining the major strategic importance held by vietnam as a crucial partner of the eu in south east asia and asean. the agreement defines the future relations in a broad spectrum, to further enhance the cooperation on global and regional challenges: good governance, the fight against corruption, economic and social progress taking into account the principle of sustainable development, disarmament and weapons of mass destruction.
in writing. ‒ the communication on the creation of european economic and monetary union sets out the proposals for the creation of european economic and monetary union. i support the commission's proposals to strengthen the ems and to make greater efforts to address the current shortcomings of the euro area institutional framework. it is essential that the provisions of the six documents and the two sets of documents are implemented as a matter of urgency. i agree that there should be greater parliamentary scrutiny and debate at european level, which is necessary to ensure democratic accountability for decisions taken on the epc.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it expresses parliament's position on the commission's documentary package of 21 october setting out the next steps towards economic and monetary union (emu). parliament welcomed the commission's proposals to strengthen the ems, recognising that some steps had been taken in the right direction, but noted that more efforts would be needed to address the current shortcomings of the euro area institutional framework. parliament regretted that the commission's published documentation did not provide for sufficient parliamentary scrutiny and debate at european level, which is necessary to ensure democratic accountability for decisions taken on the esm and thus citizens' responsibility for the governance of the euro area. parliament called on the commission to open negotiations with parliament, the council and the eurogroup on an interinstitutional agreement on european economic governance, including the european semester and the verification of the implementation of the macroeconomic adjustment programme, as provided for in the five presidents' report. stresses that this interinstitutional agreement should ensure, in accordance with the treaties, that the structure of the european semester is such as to allow for meaningful and regular scrutiny of the parliamentary process, in particular of recommendations for the euro area.
in writing. ‒ my vote on completing europe's economic and monetary union was decided by the fact that the european parliament takes note of the commission’s proposals to strengthen the emu and, while recognising that some steps have been taken in the right direction, notes that further efforts will be necessary to address the current shortcomings of the institutional framework of the euro area.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is the report by which parliament has spoken on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2014 and the european union's policy in this area. the eu is committed to developing a common foreign and security policy based on the principles of democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, equality and solidarity, in accordance with the principles enshrined in the un charter, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and international law. in this report, parliament therefore expressed its deep concern at the growing threat to human rights and democratic values such as freedom of expression, thought, conscience and religion, as well as freedom of assembly and association, and the shrinking public space for civil society and the increasing number of attacks on human rights defenders in many parts of the world, including countries with authoritarian regimes. parliament therefore called on the eu and its member states to make greater efforts to ensure that human rights and democratic values are regarded as the most important aspect of their relations with the wider world, and called for the eu to take appropriate measures, including in the areas of trade, energy or security relations, when there are serious human rights violations in third countries, especially when the country is ruled by authoritarian regimes.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2014 and the eu policy on the matter because the european parliament expresses deep concern that human rights and democratic values, such as freedom of expression, freedom of thought, conscience and religion, and freedom of assembly and association, are increasingly under threat in many parts of the world, including under authoritarian regimes. the european parliament calls for the eu and its member states to enhance their efforts to effectively regard human rights and democratic values.
in writing. ‒ the dayton peace agreement was signed in paris on 14 december 1995, ending the bosnian war. the dayton peace agreement is not perfect, but it remains the basis for the territorial integrity, sovereignty and political independence of bosnia and herzegovina. progress has been made in the country and the region over the past two decades, but more needs to be done to develop and strengthen democracy. it is important to highlight the positive changes that have taken place in bosnia and herzegovina over the last 20 years: from a war-torn country recovering from the war, it has become a country aspiring to join the european union. i support calls for the authorities to use the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement as an incentive to implement the necessary reforms. meeting the social and economic needs of citizens, as well as the creation of an effective mechanism for coordinating eu issues, must be a priority. it is also important to continue political reforms and the democratisation of the political system.
in writing. ‒ the i voted for this resolution because it marks the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement. on 14 december 1995, the dayton peace agreement was signed in paris, ending the bloodiest war in europe since the end of the second world war - the bosnian war. in its resolution, parliament recalled the importance of the signing of the dayton peace agreement, recalled all the tragic victims of the war in bosnia and herzegovina and expressed its sincere condolences to the families of those who had lost their lives. however, parliament regretted that after the end of the war and 20 years after the conclusion of the general framework agreement, which defined the main aspects of the peace agreement and the future character of the country, the governments that subsequently ruled the country had failed to create a fully functioning and viable state. parliament called on the authorities to use the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement as an incentive to carry out the necessary reforms, particularly in relation to bosnia and herzegovina's future application for eu membership.
in writing. ‒ i agreed to the resolution on the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement because the european parliament reminds local political leaders that reforms focusing on inefficient, ineffective or inconsistent laws and institutions are needed; highlights the need for measures to protect political, civil and human rights, calls for the rule of law to be restored, and encourages leaders in bosnia and herzegovina to make significant efforts to implement the political system envisaged in the dayton constitution.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is the one that parliament has used to speak out against arms exports to the eu. in its report, parliament noted that the global security environment in the eu's neighbourhood had changed substantially, particularly in the eu's southern and eastern neighbourhood. in its report, parliament noted that the uncontrolled proliferation of weapons poses a serious threat to peace and security, human rights and sustainable development, with one person killed every minute somewhere in the world as a result of armed violence and 15 new weapons being produced. parliament expressed its deep concern at the spread of violent conflicts, in particular in ukraine, syria, iraq, libya and yemen, and of all international conflicts, which in an increasingly globalised world threaten global stability and security and have led to a less stable and secure eu neighbourhood, and noted that arms transfers to states in conflict have contributed to these conflicts. parliament regretted the frequent disregard for the common position's provisions on arms exports, in particular the fact that european defence companies are increasingly compensating for their reduced turnover in europe by exporting outside the eu, and the serious concern about the consequences for the security and defence of the eu of the transfer of confidential information and classified technology to third countries, which shows a greater risk of dependence on third countries with different strategic interests.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report on arms export: implementation of the common position 2008/944/cfsp because the european parliament expressed concern about the spread of armed conflicts, notably those in ukraine, syria, iraq, libya and yemen as well as all international conflicts, which, in an increasingly globalised world, are a threat to world stability and security and have determined a less stable and less secure neighbourhood for the eu. the european parliament also stresses that arms export controls are an integral part of eu foreign and security policy and must be guided by the principles enshrined in article 21 teu, notably the promotion of democracy and the rule of law and the preservation of peace, prevention of conflicts and strengthening of international security.
in writing. ‒ access to biological material is essential to stimulate innovation and the production of new varieties, to ensure global food security and to combat climate change. intellectual property rights are important to maintain economic incentives for the export of new plant products and to ensure competitiveness. following the decision of the enlarged board of appeal of the european patent office in cases g2/12 (tomatoes) and g2/13 (broccoli), the epo may start issuing more patents relating to the natural characteristics of new varieties resulting from essentially biological processes such as crossing or selection. i support the calls on the commission to clarify the scope of directive 98/44/ec, in particular articles 4, 12 (3) (b) and 13 (3) (b) thereof, and how to interpret those provisions in order to ensure legal clarity on the prohibition of patenting products derived from essentially biological processes.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it is a resolution that parliament is advocating for the protection of patents and breeders' rights. access to biological material, including plant traits, is essential to stimulate innovation and the production of new varieties, to ensure global food security, to combat climate change and to prevent monopolies in the plant breeding sector, while creating more opportunities for smes. intellectual property rights are important to maintain economic incentives for the export of new plant products and to ensure competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the resolution on patents and plant breeders’ rights because with it the ep calls on the commission to clarify the scope and interpretation of directive 98/44/ec, in particular article 4 along with articles 12(3)(b) and 13(3)(b) thereof, in order to ensure legal clarity regarding the prohibition of the patentability of products obtained from essentially biological processes and the fact that breeding with biological material falling within the scope of a patent is permitted.
in writing. ‒ following the attacks on three military camps in bujumbura, the security situation in burundi has deteriorated sharply in recent days. burundi held parliamentary and local elections on 29 june 2015 and presidential elections on 21 july 2015, but neither of these processes was considered by the international community to be transparent, inclusive, free and credible. according to the office of the high commissioner for human rights and other human rights organisations, human rights violations and disregard for human rights and violent acts against opposition figures, human rights defenders and especially journalists have been committed in their country for political reasons both in the pre-election period and afterwards. the recent violent attacks and human rights violations must be strongly condemned. it is necessary to put an immediate end to the violence, human rights violations and political intimidation of opponents in strict compliance with international law and human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it is the parliament's voice on the situation in burundi. in the wake of the attacks on three military camps in bujumbura in recent days, the security situation in burundi has deteriorated significantly, with at least 87 people killed by burundian security forces on 11 and 12 december 2015. burundi held parliamentary and local elections on 29 june 2015 and presidential elections on 21 july 2015, and neither of these electoral processes was considered by the international community to be transparent, inclusive, free and credible, which led to the suspension of the eu electoral mission in burundi and the decision of a large part of the burundian opposition to boycott the elections. according to the office of the high commissioner for human rights (ohchr) and other human rights organisations, both in the run-up to the elections and in the aftermath, there have been politically motivated human rights violations and abuses and violent acts against opposition figures, human rights defenders and, in particular, journalists in their country. parliament strongly condemned the recent violent attacks and the increase in human rights violations and abuses, including killings, extrajudicial executions, violations of the physical integrity of the population, torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment, arbitrary arrests and unlawful detention, including the imprisonment of children, the occupation of schools by soldiers and police, and strongly condemned the violations of freedom of the press and of expression and the prevailing impunity.
in writing. ‒ my vote for the report on the situation in burundi expressed the concern about the situation in burundi, that has seriously deteriorated, following the attacks of three military camps in bujumbura; whereas burundian security forces killed at least 87 people on 11 and 12 december 2015; whereas many of these killings seem to have been random executions.
in writing. ‒ virunga national park, located in north kivu and eastern provinces of the drc, bordering rwanda and uganda, is africa's oldest national park and a unesco world heritage site, known worldwide for its unique habitats and rich biodiversity, making it the most biodiverse park in africa. armed groups have been threatening the park for decades with poaching and deforestation. at the same time, oil fever could have serious social and environmental destabilising effects, given the massive poverty, instability, poor governance and regional insecurity. i support calls for the european external action service to coordinate the diplomatic response of eu member states and other potential donors to the drc to help the drc government to abandon oil exploration and extraction in the virunga park and other unesco world heritage sites in the drc. i support calls on the commission and the member states to ensure the integrity of the park's territory, for example by increasing their commitments to finance the preservation of sustainable cultural heritage and sustainable economic development and diversification in the surrounding region.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution because it was the one in which parliament spoke on the protection of the virunga national park in the democratic republic of congo. virunga national park (vnp), located in north kivu and eastern provinces of the drc bordering rwanda and uganda, is africa's oldest national park and a unesco world heritage site, known worldwide for its unique habitats and rich biodiversity, making it the most biodiverse park in africa. the park is best known for its mountain gorillas, a rapidly disappearing species. however, despite its status as a protected natural area, the park has been threatened for decades by armed groups engaged in poaching, deforestation, and other forms of unruly and illegal exploitation of natural resources, and virunga is listed as a world heritage site in danger. in 2007, the drc government granted oil concessions covering 85% of the park area, and soco international plc (soco) is so far the only company that has carried out exploration activities in the park. the commission notes that the goc has not provided any evidence that the soco exploration licence is in line with the environmental legislation of the drc. in its resolution, parliament called for the irreparable damage to the virunga national park to be prevented and regretted that the virunga national park had also become one of the most endangered wildlife areas in the world.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the resolution on protection of virunga national park in the democratic republic of the congo. it is of absolute urgency to prevent irreversible damage to virunga national park and put pressure on drc government not to give license to another oil operator – as soco no longer holds the license for exploitation.
