mr president, madam president of the council, first i think the latvian presidency needs a chapter on climate change. preparing for paris is not just a six-month story for the luxembourg presidency: it must be more present in your presidency. the other big topic should be energy. with russia we tend to have a conflicting relationship, so we need to review our energy policies. however, we have a kind of hypocrisy here: everyone is calling for an energy union but every government is saying ‘do not interfere in my national energy mix’. the only way to overcome this blockage is a new style of governance in the energy field, and that new style of governance is regional cooperation on energy. latvia has benefited, madam president of the council, from being involved in the eu’s baltic energy market interconnection plan programme, in which we helped you in the baltic regional market to get more gas pipelines and more electricity lines, and i think that, during your presidency, you should promote this model of regional energy governance, because we need this for south-east europe too. we are in a complete political vacuum after nabucco and south stream, so regional energy governance is the new form of governance which we need.
member of the commission. - madam president, i would like on behalf of the commission to thank the members of parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, ms ayala sender, for the quick examination of this proposal and the finalisation of the report within the deadline set by the court. this is a perfect example of how good cooperation between our institutions can bring tangible results very quickly and efficiently. the commission is very grateful that we managed to address the issue on which the court ruled last year, while staying true to the principles of the original directive. the new directive will now be implemented according to the transport legal basis in the treaty and applied across all 28 member states – and not only to the 25 as before, which excluded the united kingdom, ireland and denmark. the adoption of this proposal will ensure legal continuity and will contribute to improving road safety, which is one of the essential objectives of european transport policy. too many europeans are still victims of reckless drivers who do not respect traffic rules. by making it possible to easily identify drivers from other member states who commit traffic offences, the new directive is expected to have a positive impact on the behaviour of many motorists. eu citizens will realise now more than ever that road safety does not stop at national borders: it is a europe-wide concern. as soon as one of the traffic offences listed in the directive is committed, the respective enforcement agent will be able to identify the owner of the car and ask him or her to justify him/herself. this puts an end to the anonymity of foreign drivers in a given member state. i look forward to an interesting debate this afternoon.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the community. i should like to take this opportunity to highlight the exemplary work between the commission, the council and parliament. there is no doubt that road safety is an absolute priority for the european institutions. only through joint and cross-border efforts will we be able to halve the number of road deaths by 2020. this measure, along with better training, infrastructure measures and a better safety system inside and outside the vehicles, is another step towards greater road safety. it is of great importance that this directive now applies in all 28 member states, including the united kingdom, ireland and denmark. at present, 20 countries have already transposed the provisions into national law. i am confident that the remaining member states will make every effort to meet the deadline for implementation. but it is also important - as has already been mentioned - to ensure equality for all drivers. whether you're a local or a foreign driver, you're all going to have to follow the rules. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. another important consequence of the new legal basis is the adaptation of data protection provisions. here we have paid particular attention to this exchange of information. the issue of road safety concerns us all and requires continuing efforts, especially as the number of road deaths has unfortunately increased slightly in some countries in the last year. i am very confident as is my colleague ayala sender that the commission will deliver on its commitment and present this progress report for november 2016. only in this way can we ensure that the european legislator meets its obligations and meets its challenges.
the rapporteur. mr president, let us begin with some basic truths: if it did not exist, it would have to be invented. the question is, of course, the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly. it is in the framework of this parliamentary cooperation that it has been possible to exchange views, through the representatives of the peoples, on political subjects of common interest. this dialogue has made the assembly an indispensable instrument for democratization. if this is the perception of the 78 acp parliaments and the european parliament, then the public could be better informed. it was customary for the eu member state holding the presidency of the council of the union to host the annual acp-eu meeting in its capital or in another location chosen by the eu presidency. in recent years, this practice has been disappearing. it is a pity that we are not making the work of this assembly more widely known to a public opinion which is overwhelmingly in favour of development policy. we want the future eu presidency to be able to reconnect with a long-standing tradition. as for the more political aspects of this original parliamentary cooperation, it is worth mentioning the wealth of contributions dealing with the most diverse issues, including governance, security issues and acp-eu cooperation as a whole, namely cooperation first at regional level, then, in particular, in the field of economic partnership agreements between these regions and the european union, without omitting, of course - and i should have started there - development cooperation itself. mr president, although little mention is made of it, the acp-eu dialogue on respect for fundamental values is increasingly taking on greater importance in our debates. issues specifically relating to non-discrimination occasionally give rise to very heated debates. on the european union side, we have very specific issues to solve. i am referring here to the budgetization of the european development fund, which is the instrument for financing acp-eu relations. as long as the european parliament does not have the prerogatives inherent in any parliament, particularly in budgetary matters, we are rather embarrassed when we invite the acp states to develop parliamentary democracy in their own countries. let's just say that the anomaly i just referred to should definitely be a thing of the past. if we could turn our backs on the past, we could more serenely approach future debates and challenges. before concluding, i would like to focus on the challenge that will eclipse all the others, namely the future of the eu-acp relations, which, it should be recalled, will expire in 2020. in my view, it is not too early to start thinking about the nature of our relations in the future. if we are to count down the days, and this in the event of the cotonou agreement being renewed in one form or another, it is important to do so now. the european parliament, and in particular its committee on development, would do well to take up commissioner mimica's proposal to draw up an own-initiative report on the post-cotonou period. in fact, we could have thought of it ourselves, since any parliamentary initiative should be initiated by the parliamentarians themselves. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, i wanted to ask the honourable member if he was aware of the right of any member to speak also on the subject on the agenda.
member of the commission. - madam president, i would like to thank the european parliament and the rapporteur mr charles goerens for this important debate. the joint parliamentary assembly is indeed a unique and general forum for discussing key development and political issues, thus connecting people in europe and in our partner countries through their directly elected representatives. i have no doubt that together we will find innovative ways to strengthen our cooperation with the acp countries in coherence with the new challenges of our times. the forthcoming public consultation process on post-cotonou would be an opportunity to thoroughly analyse the failure and success of the current agreement in terms of its effects on the sustainable, social and economic development of the acp countries. it would also provide the necessary input and guidance for negotiations on the future eu-acp post-2020 framework for development and economic cooperation. a european parliament own-initiative report on post-cotonou partnership, as suggested by mr goerens, would be a welcome contribution to this debate. i look forward to the joint parliamentary assembly continuing to uphold the principles of democracy and good governance.
the rapporteur. - madam president, at the end of this debate, i would first like to thank all the colleagues who have spoken on my report and on eu-acp relations in the parliamentary field. secondly, i think i can see that there is agreement on a number of points which i think are of quite political importance. i am thinking in particular of the appointment of two co-rapporteurs for the work of our assembly. i also believe that there is a consensus on almost all sides to start thinking about the future of eu-acp relations now. it is not too early to start: if we count down, these negotiations will still take several years, and this implies that we should start negotiating no later than 2018-2019. this presupposes that we have defined in advance the european parliament's broad guidelines in this area, of course in close cooperation with the commission and the council. i admit that this is more difficult with the council, which is never present at our meetings, neither at acp-eu meetings nor at the development committee, where it is nevertheless entitled to speak. it's a shame and a missed opportunity. thirdly, the closer relations between the 78 acp member states and the 28 member states of the european union constitute - as mr neuser mentioned a moment ago - a largely untapped opportunity. he also stressed the need to ensure that the eu's external relations were as open as possible to the outside world. 2015 is the year of major conferences, particularly on the financing of official development assistance, and it is an opportunity to seize. we have also seen how the disagreement or lack of coordination between the 28 and the 78, particularly in the trade negotiations, has practically brought the doha development principle to naught. that is why i urge you to look more closely at political mobilisation. lastly, let me stress this point: i believe i can also say on behalf of all my colleagues that this cooperation within the acp-eu assembly is a real work in progress in terms of the democratization of all our countries first of all, and also of the relations between us.
member of the commission. - mr president, the decision taken by the commission on the energy union a few hours ago brings an important message to every european household and business: the message that europe is serious about the fundamental energy transition – an energy transition that is just and fair and that will deliver affordable, secure, competitive and sustainable energy to all. it was extremely important for me to come to the parliament as soon as the decision was taken in order to deliver this message to you and, through you, to the european citizens. energy is indispensable. it is the lifeblood of our citizens’ livelihoods and of our economy, yet we have all grown used to paying high energy bills as if it were a fact of life. we have got used to the current threats to our energy supply in winter, and all of us have got used to the threats of global climate change. yet not nearly enough has been done to really tackle these issues. today we are taking a big step towards an energy market that is economically sustainable, socially inclusive and environmentally friendly: an energy market that is integrated, interconnected, resilient and secure. it is a triple-win strategy, because it will benefit citizens, businesses and the environment. let me highlight four main characteristics of the energy union. first, the energy union, like the european project itself, is based on trust and solidarity. over the past decades, member states have come to rely on each other in numerous fields. it is time we also applied the same principle in our energy markets. member states should in all circumstances know that they can rely on their neighbours, especially when confronted or threatened with supply disruptions. second, the energy union should deliver a free flow of energy across europe as if it were a fifth freedom. the strategy we have adopted is the most ambitious european energy project since the european coal and steel community. it has the potential to boost europe’s integration project in the way the coal and steel community did in the 1950s, and it should remind citizens – and also our companies – of the great potential of the common european market. a century ago, when electricity grids were laid in europe, they were interconnecting regions across the nations. we now have to do the same at european level. we will integrate the 28 european energy markets into one. we will come forward with new legislation to strengthen the european regulatory framework, a necessity if we want to continue to increase cross-border energy flows. we will speed up critical infrastructure projects and monitor them much better because, without this hardware, we will have an internal energy market only on paper. we will encourage and assist member states to phase out uncoordinated national policies that distort the functioning of the market, and we will produce, every two years, a report on how energy prices are composed, creating more transparency and a better functioning of the market. energy prices are a real issue for our consumers but equally for the competitiveness of our industry. thirdly, the energy union puts energy efficiency first. we have to fundamentally rethink energy efficiency and treat it as an energy source in its own right. we will come forward with new legislation on electricity market design, and this will ensure that energy efficiency can compete on equal terms with generation capacity. we will promote better access to financing instruments for energy efficiency in the transport and building sectors, notably at local level, and we will encourage member states to give energy efficiency primary consideration in their own policies. fourthly, the energy union will make our energy system fit for the future – fit for a low-carbon and sustainable economy, an energy system that is driven by renewable sources and in which citizens, cooperatives and local communities can play a much more active role. consumer empowerment is a key word in this regard. i am convinced that, as a world leader once said, the nation that leads the world in creating new energy sources will lead the 21st-century global economy. i would like europe to be among these leaders. europe has all the right elements to be a global leader, a global hearth for developing the next generation of technically advanced renewables. we will better focus our research and innovation policy like storage and electromobility, and we will ensure better coordination between member states and the eu’s innovation programmes and financing schemes, not only because it sustains our climate policy – the most ambitious worldwide – but also because it offers great growth opportunities for our industry and for job creation here in europe. new business sectors, new business models and new job profiles will emerge, and to achieve this vision in the future we need to start acting now. that is why today we adopted a concrete plan with 15 action points that translate the energy union into concrete deliverables. today the commission has set out its vision and its actions to make it happen. yet the real work starts now. this work has directly involved 14 commissioners, from energy and transport to research and the digital agenda. they all have contributed their ideas and different perspectives over the last month. this has been a real team effort and i am very proud of that collective approach. as the vice-president in charge of this energy union project, i will continue to work, under the guidance of president juncker, with all of them and make sure that all parts of the commission work together. we have to make sure that our actions are coherent and consistent. i will therefore start developing without delay the robust governance framework that the energy union needs in order to deliver on its promises. i can already announce that, building on all the expertise we have in the house, the dgs and the joint research centre, i intend to present, before the end of this year, the first edition of the annual state of the energy union. there is no time to waste. we need such an instrument in order to constantly monitor where we make progress and where we have to speed up our work. i am, of course, looking forward to coming here to present it to you, the members of the european parliament. (applause)
mr president, i have this to say to the commissioner: you said this morning in your press conference that this paper which you have presented is the most ambitious paper since 1952. i challenge this. i can promise you the existing legislation on renewables, on energy efficiency, is more ambitious than what you have in your paper. you have done something fundamentally wrong: you suggest to citizens in europe that our energy security will be better by concluding contracts with the nice people who lead turkmenistan, azerbaijan, iran and kurdistan. i do not believe that that will function. what is much more promising would be to deliver what parliament’s position is: 40% energy efficiency, binding. why is the commission siding unilaterally with the uk, which has enforced a very weak 27%, non-binding, on the council? why are you not making an alliance with us to create a new economy around energy efficiency, where cities and citizens play a real role? and on the subject of citizens – do not call them smart consumers. citizens are real people who want to democratically participate, and in that sense i hope that this day is the beginning of a one-year debate on energy policy in europe. if you want to blow up the national silos, you need to organise a european cross-national debate with citizens, with cities all over europe using the covenant of mayors and the national parliaments, where you also bring us in. that would be the most important thing to do.
madam president, tonight we are discussing eur 1.8 billion, whereas we know that ukraine is very likely to need eur 50 billion, and there is another eur 17 billion or so coming from the international monetary fund. ukraine is facing massive liquidity problems. ukraine is on the verge of bankruptcy, and i am absolutely certain that the bankruptcy of ukraine would be worse than a full-scale invasion of ukraine. it would be tantamount to that. we will need to go further than this and we know it, and we should not focus on conditionalities which we know ukraine will not be able to meet. when you are at war, you do not reform the state and save up for winter at the same time. we will have to be much more creative than we currently are. we might even have to conceive of things like opening up the european stability mechanism for ukraine. at the end of the day, either we will be serious or ukraine will go down.
the commission has already done so. the question we are discussing today is not a purely national problem. nor is it about the introduction of a minimum wage in a particular member state. it is not a question of the minimum wage either. although wage policy is subject to the subsidiarity principle, the minimum wage is a european issue. it covers competition, social dumping, the internal market and freedom of movement. the problem is precisely this: national circumstances, subsidiarity, and yet a european matter. the commission must therefore take a clear position on this issue. i am in favour of a minimum wage and regret that it does not yet exist in some member states or that it is not sufficiently implemented in some. social dumping in the road transport sector has reached alarming proportions. there is legislation, and it has been mentioned several times: the posting of workers directive, rome i, directive 1071 of 2009. but this is bypassed or not controlled. in addition, many member states are now taking their own measures and interpreting the rules according to their own ideas. that is why, commissioner, you were unable to convince me of your arguments. but it may be too soon. that's why i'm looking forward to this whole package. my question to the commissioner is: what is the commission's plan to do in this critical situation and what are the possible measures or plans in this regard?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. millions of armenians around the world are commemorating these days - and we are with them - not a regrettable incident of war, as it would have been in the chaos of the first world war. no, they commemorate the fact that 100 years ago the authorities of the ottoman empire set about carrying out their insane plan to exterminate the armenian people. fortunately, they did not succeed. but the intention was there. the armenian people should be razed to the ground, exterminated. all armenians should be killed. it's called genocide. turkey will not be a better country because of this and will not be able to be confirmed on its way to the european union because it is resisting this recognition, this historical truth, until further notice. turkey must also recognise that this is part of its history in another form of state at another time. only then can it be taken seriously by the europeans as a candidate for accession.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a former rapporteur on the renewable energy directive, i am naturally interested in what has just come out. so overall, it's not a wonderful deal, it's pretty weak. this has less to do with us as a parliament than it does with the position of the council - whose representatives are not even here. we need to limit the first generation of biofuels. we have too much competition with food production. seven percent is high, probably too high, okay, but... secondly, we need a methodology to balance the total carbon footprint of biofuels. without this, there can be no scientific approach to the subject. thirdly, the commission and perhaps you too, commissioner arias cañete, are called upon to do so. we need planning and investment certainty. the commission should therefore now, after this relatively weak deal, also examine this 0.5% for the second and third generations which are not even compulsory . the commission should now take a firm initiative and look at what funds it has in the common agricultural policy, what funds it has in the research policy, and it should link this to the juncker investment plan. we need investment in romania, bulgaria, poland and perhaps even ukraine in this second and third generation of biofuels.
madam president, commissioner, i was marvelling earlier at your juggling with the many abbreviations relating to this file and i will not attempt to do anything akin to that, so i will try to leave the abbreviations out of what i am going to say altogether. i belong to the category of those who are content with what has been achieved in terms of compromise because the text that we are now contemplating, at least in parliament, gives us better regulation, gives us encompassing regulation and does not prematurely close doors that need not necessarily be closed. many colleagues on the left seem to perceive these instruments as if they were the devil in disguise, if in disguise at all. i do not see that proven. yes, they may be systemically relevant; but where has the systemic accident been, at least on the european continent, during the last years? i am not aware of one. yes, there might have been difficulties in the united states with different regulation; but in europe i do not recall anything like that. let us provide for more guarantees and more regulation right now, but let us give the commission a serious opportunity to re-evaluate a certain type of money market funds in the years to come before we decide out of the blue – or what appears to me to be not totally irrelevant in this matter, because we hate them – to abolish a certain category of money market funds altogether.
mr president, i maintain that an immigrant is not a criminal. if he leaves his country, it's for good reasons! that is why the president of the commission is quite right to oppose the council, which is once again refusing to open up legal immigration routes to europe. only by accepting more legal immigration to europe will we avoid the intensification of illegal immigration and the deaths of people who migrate under impossible conditions. european solidarity is not about sending a few border guards on a mediterranean cruise. european solidarity means welcoming refugees and migrants, who do not migrate because they like it, but because they have to, because their lives and the future of their families are in danger. half the continent cannot continue to act as if immigration does not concern them! quota policy is an urgent and absolute necessity.
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank the committee on development, its chair, ms linda mcavan, and the rapporteur, mr silva pereira, for their dedicated work and for the openness of the consultations during the preparation of this report, which the commission welcomes. it comes at a critical juncture in the post-2015 negotiations, and will make a valuable contribution to the ongoing debate in the council, which is expected to adopt conclusions next week. it is encouraging to see that the views of parliament and the commission are generally well aligned on the issues of financing for development. we share a vision of a global partnership to eradicate poverty, share prosperity and foster sustainable development while defending human rights, promoting gender equality and social cohesion, and reducing inequalities. the report is very rich, covering a broad range of issues and making a number of requests to the commission. i have taken careful note of these – including member’s calls for increased attention to private sector investments, domestic revenue mobilisation, monitoring and transparency of the commission’s own aid programmes and attention to the court of auditors’ reports on blending. this report will reinforce the european union’s determination to call for and contribute to achieving a comprehensive global package comprising aid, investment and domestic resources, together with an enhancing framework of good policies and good governance. i welcome the clear support that the report expresses for an ambitious recommitment by the european union to the 0.7 % of gross national income (gni) for official development assistance (oda) target, and to specific oda targets for least developed countries. as i have said to parliament before, the commission will help encourage member states to reach an agreement on an ambitious package of measures for the implementation of the sustainable development agenda, including on the oda commitment. however, the decision on the timetable for reaching the 0.7 % target is ultimately a decision for the member states. therefore, when it comes to the 2020 timetable proposed in the report, we need to consider carefully the political and economic realities within our member states. the commission position has been that all developed countries should commit to the 0.7 % target, with the timetable to be set during the negotiation process. i believe we share the same objective: to ensure that the global agreement on financing for development includes ambitious and credible commitments from all. while i believe it is right that we also have expectations of others, we must be ready to play our full part by presenting our clear political commitment to oda. i also support the emphasis in the report on aid effectiveness and the need to ensure a higher degree of coordination between different aid mechanisms and donors. furthermore, we note the call to step up international efforts to find additional climate finance. mobilising more finance from all sources – public and private – to tackle climate change is, of course, a priority. but, we should be cautious about artificially dividing financing for climate and other development-related activities. some climate change interventions, for instance, will meet the oda definition. it is therefore important that synergies across various sustainable development objectives can be maximised to ensure that available resources can deliver the maximum impact. we particularly welcome the emphasis in the report on the mobilisation and effective use of all forms of finance, including domestic resources, private investment, blending and innovative financial sources. to implement such a far-reaching agenda, we need to consider the full range of means of implementation. good policies, trade, innovation policies and other non-financial resources will be just as crucial. they can make a real difference. the commission is cautious, however, about two recommendations in the report: to establish an intergovernmental body for tax cooperation and to establish a multilateral legal framework for sovereign debt restructuring. we are in favour of further discussions and analyses on these complex issues through an inclusive and participatory dialogue. the debate, in our view, should focus more on the substance rather than on the form and format of the statutory mechanisms of a multilateral legal framework. the commission is particularly cautious as regards the call for a multilateral legal framework for sovereign debt restructuring. whilst finding sustainable debt solutions is highly important, the post-2015 negotiations should avoid pre-empting or duplicating ongoing work on sovereign debt restructuring in the context of other fora, notably the imf. the report contains many other interesting ideas and suggestions, which we will take carefully into account in finalising the eu position ahead of the addis and new york conferences. i look forward to the discussion here today and to continuing the dialogue with this parliament on the post-2015 agenda.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, i would first like to thank mr pereira for introducing the debate with a report and a talent show. the vast majority of the committee on development are behind the conclusions drawn from this report, and i can only congratulate myself on the quality of what has emerged from our discussions. the european union is going to addis ababa with good news and bad news. the good news is that it will once again commit itself to spending 0.7%, according to a timetable which depends on the member states. the bad news is that it had already made this commitment at monterrey, at an identical conference, where the timetable also depended on the member states. the member states which have met the 0.7% target will be able to congratulate themselves and proclaim in addis ababa that their mission is accomplished. the rest of us can just reread the talks that they gave in monterrey a dozen years ago. the conference is divided into two parts: a quantitative part and a qualitative part. the quantity, as i said, was the subject of various commitments which were not kept. the quality must, of course, be aimed at those who need money most from official development assistance. this quality must meet indicators of efficiency, relevance and also sustainability in order to meet, in fact, the method invented by the oecd in this field. it is also necessary to make aid predictable, so that the major players in official development aid can rely on predictability to enable them to make longer-term commitments. the member states and the commission are therefore invited to act in this direction and not to arrive empty-handed in addis ababa. finally, i would like to stress the principle of differentiation: if we are to act effectively in the field of official development assistance, we must apply this principle, which the commission calls for and which we have supported, which is to remind those who today generate enough resources to meet their own needs to do so, particularly middle-income countries, so that we can concentrate our aid on those who are in dire need.
madam president, we have here an alliance which stretches from the ecr to gue; i think this is relatively unique when discussing energy matters. so this whole parliament wants the commission, but also the member states, to finally deliver the budget to make it possible for us to have a real european regulatory authority, with acer, which is functioning. one big enron scandal in europe would set us a decade or two decades back, and without a powerful regulator you cannot organise the cost benefits in a market. it is more expensive on an island than in a larger country. it is always less expensive to organise an energy system in 28 countries than in one country. so this must be a priority for the juncker commission, and mrs van bossuyt is right: if the commission does not deliver in the 2015 budget, we should make this a break point in the budget discussions.
mr president, the new financial instrument is a first step towards a europe which reinvests in its infrastructure to create a better future. it is a victory for a progressive party in parliament over the austerity ideologues. it is a victory for the progressive party in parliament that has allowed investment to be directed towards the future and not business as usual. there will be no investment in nuclear and coal, but in energy efficiency. i have personally fought for a $50 billion fund for energy efficiency. the ball is now in the court of the european investment bank. it is responsible for providing technical assistance to cities and private investors in europe on energy efficiency and for advancing energy efficiency investments. your challenge is to go beyond that 50 billion, otherwise it would have been better to take my idea of a dedicated 50 billion fund.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not thank you for your kind words. that sounds a lot better than december, january, and maybe there's a change from saul to paul. we hope so. we need rules on a planet where we're going to be 10 billion. what concerns me a little about what you said - and also about mr katainen - is that you said 'no over-regulation'. what does that mean? how can i steer the economy in a direction in the long term - you have rightly recognised this, mr timmermans - if we do not have hard targets? why are we making progress on climate policy? because we have hard targets. so i assume that when you say we're going long term, you're also going for binding hard targets for 2030. without it, there will be no direction for the economy. the second thing we need is to get hazardous substances out of the economy. i can't do any meaningful recycling with hazardous substances. this is why reach needs to be deepened rather than weakened. reach is not overregulation. we need fewer hazardous substances to make recycling a positive possibility at all. the third reason we make tough laws is because of unfair competition from outside. the situation with tyres is that newly-wrapped, i.e. very environmentally-friendly tyres in europe are now more expensive than new chinese tyres. if we have no laws, how can we possibly stand up to the wto and then, with virtually no rules, protect the better european products or the better products in the world against dumping? perhaps you can be a little more clear in your answer later. we also want to see that the waste framework law is not weakened by this holistic rhetoric. we need strict rules there, too. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the house of lords wants europe to do something about food. it's a first that we've finally got the wind back from there for new legislation. i think you should pick up that ball.
i have to say, madam president, the ttip is not a conflict between europe and the united states or against the united states. the proposed trade agreement is more about the rights of citizens in europe and the usa, it is about the rights of local, regional, national, european and american representatives on the one hand and of multinational corporations on the other. private arbitration would strengthen the rights of corporations and weaken those of citizens and their elected representatives. that is why we reject it. the planned cooperation on laws, standards and norms is also likely to weaken the better european standards on the environment, animal welfare, consumer protection, labour law and safety at work. as a member of parliament who tries to put the protection of citizens, the environment and workers at the forefront of his work, i do not want and have no desire to make an extra round with american and through the back door with european companies before any european legislation. that is why we are very sceptical about this ttip agreement.
madam president, how could disputes between investors and states be settled in the context of the transatlantic partnership? the proposals and precedents exist. take the example of the world trade organization. if conflicts arise between two or more of its members, the dispute may be settled at the level of its dispute settlement body. no one would think of questioning the authority of this arbitration body. everyone accepts this body, because it is an emanation of our states and has an institutional character. why, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, can we not take inspiration from this example, which works very well at the multilateral level? this should all the more be the case in a bilateral context.
member of the commission.– madam president, my thanks to the rapporteurs for their report and for their introduction. as we all know, the crisis has brought us further away from our employment and social inclusion targets under the europe 2020 strategy, with some little signs of improvement coming only recently. it is good news that the economy is recovering, but it is also true that many european citizens do not yet feel it. the commission proposed its new employment guidelines as part of the integrated guidelines on 2 march. our goal was to take a comprehensive approach to employment, social and macro-economic objectives. indeed, the integrated guidelines also frame the scope and direction of the union’s policy coordination of member states’ policies and provide a basis for country-specific recommendations. the commission has opted for more concise, targeted and operational employment guidelines with a view to sharpening the focus on key priorities and improve ownership and implementation by member states. the guidelines are fully in line with the new approach to economic policy—making built on investment, structural reform and fiscal responsibility. the employment guidelines need to be applied on a national, regional and even local level and, of course, in close coordination with the social partners. indeed, the employment guidelines provide guidance firstly on boosting demand for labour. this refers directly to the investment plan, with the goal to increase investment by eur 315 billion and the need to reduce bottlenecks to investment and growth and shift taxation away from labour. secondly: enhancing the labour supply, skills and competences. making the most of our human capital is fundamental. we have already acted by injecting one billion euros for the pre-financing of the youth employment initiative. after the summer, the commission will propose to the council a recommendation to fight long-term unemployment, and we are working on a comprehensive skills strategy. investment in human capital is the main approach needed in order to support productivity gains and ensure that future growth is both job-rich and inclusive. thirdly: enhancing labour market functioning. member states need to step up progress in labour market reforms, eliminate the segmentation of the labour market, improve active labour market policies and protect workers rather than jobs. fourthly: fostering social inclusion, combating poverty and promoting equal opportunities. the guidelines clearly put the accent on modernising social protection systems so that they can effectively provide adequate protection throughout all stages of an individual’s life. this affects all pillars of social protection – not only pensions but also access to healthcare, education, childcare and other enabling services. i am delighted that, in general, the european parliament is supporting the commission’s approach. i especially note that, in the opinion of parliament, qualitative and social considerations must find their place throughout the employment guidelines. i feel it is right to say that this has been the concern of the commission in drafting its proposal. our aim is to achieve sustainable growth so as to allow upward social convergence and to bring concrete results to the european citizens. this means that job creation will continue to be our number one priority, because it is also what people – men and women – care most about: having a good and decent job. let me say a word on green jobs. a year ago, the commission adopted the communication on the green employment initiative, tapping into the job creation potential of the green economy, calling for an integrated approach and supporting employment in the green economy. generating green growth is good for society at large. the environmental goods and services sector has been one of europe’s success stories in the last decade and a half. the number of europeans employed in this sector increased from around 3 million to 4.3 million people between 2002 and 2012. this positive growth in jobs continued even throughout the recession. i would like to focus on two actions proposed in the communication where the commission may bring added value. firstly, further investment in green skills. the transition to a circular economy needs to be underpinned by changes to qualifications and national education and training curricula to meet emerging occupational needs. such a process needs to be based on commonly-defined competence standards in order to facilitate cross-border certification and to ease professional mobility in the sector. secondly, involvement of the social partners, in particular, in the most concerned sectors, for example: electricity, extractive industries, gas, transport and construction. involvement of the social partners can also help in overcoming barriers to the circular economy. in this context your report is very welcome. it addresses a number of pertinent issues, like a call for creating the conditions for a fair transition to quality and sustainable jobs, addressing the skills gaps and mismatches, full implementation of environmental legislation and enhancing participation of workers in the transition. my efforts, as well as those of my fellow commissioners, in respect of the circular economy package or the energy union have the potential to enrich the implementation of the green employment initiative. dear members of parliament, both your reports, on green jobs and on employment guidelines, are certainly an additional impetus for us to continue working together on these topics.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states form an integral part of the european semester. unfortunately, the european semester was already concluded at the end of june when the european council adopted the recommendations. i am sorry that the timing is so bad, since we are not voting on our position until tomorrow, and that our thoughts cannot be incorporated into the recommendations. i hope, however, that parliament's position will be taken into account in the council. for us as the epp, the text contains some very important points. for example, it is important to us that the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy be reaffirmed. these employment guidelines, which have been revised this year for the first time since 2010, and which deal with the crisis, this high unemployment, this youth unemployment, longterm unemployment and the increasing poverty are among the most important issues to which we attach great importance and which we must address. the epp also supports the commission's new priorities for more growth and job creation without debt, investment, structural reforms and a responsible fiscal policy. commissioner marianne thyssen has now made a list and set her priorities. that is absolutely welcome. we also think that a minimum income should be considered. we stress that this should be done in accordance with the treaties at national level and also in accordance with national rules and practices. other important points are the reduction of school drop-out rates, the promotion of enterprises including entrepreneurship among young people , the focus of course also on small and medium-sized enterprises, mobility within europe and as i said the fight against unemployment. the skills and especially the transition from school to work should also be improved. i would like to conclude by expressing once again my hope that the council will take up our recommendations. i thank the rapporteur, laura agea, for her excellent work.
president of the council. mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, on 1 july luxembourg took the reins of the council of the european union for the 12th time. we hope that the coming months will give us the opportunity to demonstrate our commitment to the project of european integration. this presidency will not be a routine presidency for luxembourg. with the years now separating the presidencies of each member state, the benefit of experience is fading. the lisbon treaty and the redistribution of institutional resources mean that this is a first for us too. finally, or rather unfortunately, the circumstances are not the most favorable. we are indeed holding the presidency at a critical time for the union. the challenges we face are serious. growth is not at its best in all member states. unemployment, especially among young people, remains a real scourge. the desperation of hundreds of thousands of migrants trying to reach europe compels us, politically and morally, to put in place a new migration policy. i also think of the challenges in the field of security or in the field of sustainable development. we will do everything possible to establish sincere and effective cooperation with the european parliament, based on pragmatism and common sense. mr president, the luxembourg presidency will also ensure that the real and direct interests of citizens are better taken into account in all the union's policies. we are counting on the commitment and determination of the european parliament, because without parliament the union cannot move forward. in these times of great challenges that test the people, it is up to us, as politicians and representatives of the european citizens, to show that europe can provide solutions. we must act together in a united and determined manner. the new interinstitutional agreement on better regulation is set in this context. the luxembourg presidency will endeavour to achieve this by the end of the year. it is looking forward to entering into discussions with parliament and the commission in a constructive and pragmatic spirit and with the european interest and efficiency at the forefront. let me give you my thoughts on the situation in greece. the greek people have spoken on sunday. we have taken note of his decision and we must respect it. i must, however, tell you that most of the european leaders who met yesterday in brussels were disappointed that they did not receive any concrete proposals from the greek prime minister. that is why he has promised to make concrete proposals by tomorrow. i must tell you that these proposals, which are not unilateral, will also have to be accepted by the other 18 members of the eurogroup. i hope we can find a solution in the interests of all. in any case, the luxembourg presidency does not advocate grexit as a priority and hopes that we will find a solution in the interests of all, especially in view of the economic situation of many greeks and of businesses. in line with the european council's strategic agenda for 2014 and taking into account the commission's political guidelines and programme, the luxembourg presidency has set seven objectives covering the major construction sites of the european union. the most pressing challenge and the first of our priorities must be to unlock investment for growth and jobs. we want a robust and rapid implementation of the investment plan for europe. measures to facilitate access to investment, especially for smes, will have to complement the effort to multiply the effects of the investment plan. the luxembourg presidency will encourage the european commission's initiatives in this regard. the establishment of a genuine capital markets union serves the same objective. the european union must facilitate unhindered access for our companies to european capital markets. the new regulatory framework should also serve to encourage investment beyond the capital markets. we want to complete the regulation of financial services by advancing negotiations on several issues, in particular the structural reform of banking and monetary funds. mr president, the luxembourg presidency will also continue the union's efforts to implement a genuine european industrial policy, including, for example, in the steel and space sectors, by systematically integrating the imperative of competitiveness into all areas of union action. the development of the european research area will make it possible to exploit fully the potential of the single market for researchers and knowledge on our continent, which is often caught between the united states and asia. secondly, mr president, social cohesion is the pillar of european construction which has been most affected by the economic and financial crisis. the deepening of the european social dimension will be a priority of our presidency. our presidency will firmly support the idea put forward by the president of the european commission to maintain this triple a social policy. to move this ambitious project forward, our presidency will work closely with the social partners and the institutions. the focus will be on social investment, in particular in the areas of skills, with particular attention to digital skills. i will ensure that as prime minister and also as minister of communications and media in my own country. governments must continue to improve the efficiency of their labour markets. in concrete terms, this is to improve the transition between education and the world of work and to promote access to employment for groups further away from the labour market, such as the long-term unemployed. the aim is also to facilitate the integration of young people through the youth guarantee. i have received messages from many people, especially from youth organisations, welcoming this european initiative. however, this programme cannot be the only measure to combat youth unemployment. it must be accompanied by other measures, such as investment in education and training. the social dimension of the governance of the economic and monetary union and the euro area needs to be taken more into account. the luxembourg presidency will attach particular importance to equal opportunities and will focus on increasing the female employment rate and on a balanced representation of women and men in political and economic decision-making as factors of competitiveness. another pressing priority is to manage immigration, combining freedom, justice and the security of our citizens. the tragic loss of life in the mediterranean calls for continued and decisive action in the field of migration. the presidency will give a sense of urgency to a whole series of measures within the union and actions in partnership with third countries to lay the foundations for a fair, effective and credible immigration policy. the commission has presented an agenda on migration. it is now up to the council to adopt a balanced package of measures to save lives, fight crime networks and welcome migrants with dignity. it also aims to guarantee them the necessary protection and to promote the return and readmission of irregular migrants to their countries of origin. at the european council at the end of june we saw how delicate these issues are. i am convinced that together we will succeed in bringing together member states, institutions and our citizens to promote a sound and supportive management of migration. but i also know that it will take effort on the part of all of us. the european year for development will also be an opportunity to examine the link between development and migration. the deepening of cooperation with third countries of origin, transit and host will be a central part of the presidency's work. mr president, the terrorist attacks have shown that six months after the deadly attacks in paris and those that followed, the risk of such attacks remains real. the presidency will pursue with vigour and determination the implementation of the measures and actions decided by the heads of state and government on 12 february 2015. the large flows of residents and citizens who have left to join terrorist groups in syria and iraq, and their potential return to europe, represent a major challenge. the union will have to make full use of existing tools, develop new ones if necessary and ensure that the coordination of actions carried out is perfected. these measures will of course have to be taken and implemented in full respect of human rights and the rule of law. as regards the new tools for combating terrorism and organised crime, the establishment of the european passenger name record (pnr) system is essential for the safety of our citizens. at the same time, the completion of the reform of personal data protection is also essential. the success of the digital internal market will depend to a large extent on the trust placed by citizens and businesses in online data flows. the luxembourg presidency aims to conclude the negotiations on this reform package by the end of the year. as regards the european judicial area, mr president, the flagship project is the creation of a european public prosecutor's office to investigate and prosecute fraud against the budget of the european union. the presidency will endeavour to move the negotiations forward so that the union has an independent and efficient european public prosecutor's office as soon as possible. the luxembourg presidency also considers that the union must be determined to consolidate and promote the fundamental values on which it is founded. respect for the rule of law is one of them. fourthly, we want to give the internal market a new impetus, particularly by focusing on digital technology. the latter remains under-exploited. the presidency is committed to giving digital a transversal priority and placing it at the heart of its internal market policy. we will work to dismantle the barriers that continue to fragment the digital single market into 28 national mini-markets. the luxembourg presidency will encourage the use of the most effective regulatory and non-regulatory instruments, namely harmonisation and mutual recognition. the examination of the future 'internal market for goods and services' package will be a priority for our presidency. the energy union, mr president, must enable us to strengthen security of supply and promote the energy transition through the renewable energy and energy efficiency sectors, which are essential drivers of green and sustainable growth, creating wealth and jobs. in the field of transport, the luxembourg presidency will contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the european transport policy, which are aimed at promoting efficient, safe, reliable, accessible and socially responsible mobility. the fifth priority of the presidency will be to support european competitiveness in a comprehensive and transparent framework. following the presentation of the report by the five presidents on the completion of economic and monetary union, we intend to work on the four pillars of emu. it is important to promote a return to growth and employment in a framework of solidarity and budgetary discipline, but also of a more social europe. we remain committed to the triptych of fiscal consolidation, investment-led growth and structural reforms that have a positive impact on sustainable and balanced growth. this exercise takes on a new dimension in the current context of the situation in greece and the need to accelerate the deepening of emu. what is meant by sustainable and balanced growth is the fight against fraud and tax evasion! this is a priority which luxembourg intends to place in a global framework to ensure that all competition is fair. the european union will have to take action in the wake of the decisions taken and to be taken by the g20 and the oecd. the establishment of a level playing field at world level is a prerequisite for the effectiveness of this struggle. the presidency is determined to move forward taxation matters in a spirit of openness and full transparency. while ensuring respect for the internal market acquis, in particular as regards the free movement of capital and the right of establishment, the presidency aims to complete the proposal on transparency and exchange of information on tax returns. the expected progress in the context of the oecd's work on beps will inform the european union's approach in the second half of 2015. the action plan for fair and effective business taxation, which the commission published in june, will serve as a starting point for the presidency's work on taxation. the luxembourg presidency hopes to advance work on the international aspects of the proposal for a directive on the common consolidated corporate tax base and on the proposal for a directive on interest and royalty. the common european commercial policy is another important aspect of the path to more growth in europe. we need a trade policy which creates opportunities and serves us, but which is not without its challenges. we will put everything together with you yesterday in parliament and the european commission to work out exactly such a policy, whether in the context of the world trade organisation or in bilateral negotiations. the luxembourg presidency will therefore also be taking forward the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership. these should be expected to gain an intensity during the second semesters. we are also promoting trade agreements with other key partners of the eu in asia. i am thinking above all of japan and our partner in the asean region. we will however strive for a maximum of transparency and encourage all the actors involved to maintain a constructive dialogue. that is why i have also decided to hold a conference on ttip together with the european parliament and the european commission. to this should be invited in particular representatives of the social partners from the 28 member states. the conference will take place in brussels on 17 november this year and will provide a constructive exchange on the opportunities and challenges of ttip. finally, i would like to thank the european parliament specifically for its commitment to the ttip debate. the sixth priority of the presidency will be a sustainable development approach. we often talk about fiscal and social dumping, but there is also a real international environmental dumping today. sustainable economic growth and service to the citizen go hand in hand with the highest environmental ambition. the presidency will seek to accelerate the transition to a green economy with low greenhouse gas emissions by creating the necessary dynamics for the emergence of a safe and sustainable society. it will also promote an innovative, circular and competitive economy, which is energy efficient, preserves biodiversity and natural resources, avoids waste and promotes recycling at the lowest cost. this essential ambition will guide the presidency in the legislative files currently under way, such as those relating to air quality or the reduction of co2 emissions. the requirement of sustainability will also be at the heart of the presidency's action in preparation for the various international events that will dominate the global agenda, be it the summit in new york or the cop 21 in paris. the luxembourg presidency is working intensively with the french presidency of cop 21. at the paris conference, international negotiations will have to lead to the adoption of a new treaty, which will be ambitious and binding and will involve global participation. we will focus in particular on the issue of climate finance. finally, the seventh objective will be to strengthen the european union's presence in the world. the presidency will give its full support to vice-president mogherini. the presidency believes that the prospect of accession remains a powerful driver for reforms at european borders, to the benefit of the stability and prosperity of the continent as a whole. the presidency will continue negotiations with turkey, montenegro and serbia as soon as the conditions are met, and will contribute to the continuation of the european path of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and albania. the signing and conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement with kosovo and the implementation of the recently entered into force stabilisation and association agreement with bosnia and herzegovina are other issues which will be encouraged by the presidency, provided that the necessary conditions are met. moreover, mr president, on the basis of a commission communication on the european neighbourhood policy, the presidency will contribute to the work to update this policy with a view to adopting conclusions at the european council before the end of 2015. the credibility of the european union in the world is strengthened by decisive action in the fields of development cooperation and humanitarian action. the year 2015, the european year for development, will be a watershed year for development in this respect and because of the major international meetings. we attach particular importance to the adoption of the sustainable development goals. improving policy coherence for development is an integral part of this new agenda, including on migration. on 9 december, the luxembourg presidency will have the honour and pleasure of organising the closing of the european year for development in luxembourg, but it will ensure that this strengthened solidarity continues beyond this year. finally, allow me to say a word about the referendum that prime minister david cameron is planning to hold. we will listen carefully to the british government's proposals, and i am convinced that we will find common ground for solutions but the acquis communautaire cannot be jeopardised. i have no doubt that the united kingdom will remain in the european union. the luxembourg presidency is ready, for its part, to contribute to that objective. i am confident. i cannot imagine the united kingdom without a european union, or the european union without a united kingdom. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, these are the few major projects which the luxembourg presidency will have to launch, continue or complete. we will do so with enthusiasm and with the conviction that the european project remains the instrument par excellence for meeting the challenges of our time.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, mr prime minister, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to see today the prime minister of the country i know best in a place i know well. i have been president of the european council twice, and president of the council of ministers four times, so i know the constraints that will be yours, dear xavier and dear nicolas. you can count on the commission, which i have the honour of chairing, to be of service to you at every place, at every moment and throughout the presidency and beyond. i would like to thank the latvian presidency for making it possible for the investment plan proposed by the commission to start its work and i would encourage the luxembourg presidency to speed up all the work, particularly with regard to the third part of the investment plan, which is to improve the general environment in which our businesses must operate and in particular small and mediumsized enterprises, which account for more than 90% of the economic activity in the european union. i would like to encourage the luxembourg presidency to launch the energy union, the capital markets union and the digital european union. digital is of particular importance for europe because when we talk about digital union, we are actually talking about an additional value added of 415 billion for european growth and 2 to 3 million jobs. i would therefore encourage the luxembourg presidency to do everything possible to speed up the work of implementing the ideas put forward by the commission. it is clear that all the issues surrounding immigration are of particular importance. the luxembourg presidency has the task of ensuring that the objectives we have set ourselves in terms of relocation and resettlement are achieved. the council of ministers will have to do this on a voluntary basis. i would have preferred that we used the community method, but the european council, in its quasi-wisdom, decided otherwise, since it opted for the intergovernmental method. but i am convinced that the luxembourg presidency will succeed in achieving the objectives we have set ourselves. in the same spirit, i would encourage the luxembourg presidency to redouble its efforts to make the paris climate conference at the end of the year a success. the role of the presidency is essential and fundamental and i am sure that it will make the paris conference a real and lasting success. i do not see any major differences between the programme of the luxembourg presidency and the commission's programme. it's basically the same thing and we'll work together in the best way possible. yes, the luxembourgish presidency will have to take action towards finding a fair deal with britain. we will find a fair deal with britain, and mr farage will of course be helpful. he did everything possible to stay in this house and now, as he is here, he will be the best ally of the luxembourgish presidency. (applause) so, kollegen, fänkt an! what are you doing here? i'm not sure, but i'm sure.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the commission, it was a happy meeting of luxembourgers in the european parliament this morning. we could have welcomed this if it had been done under more favourable circumstances for the continent. but these are difficult times and challenges abound. i could try to sketch out the legislation that the luxembourg presidency should be able to bring to fruition, but it is extremely difficult for me to do so in the minutes that i have. i could talk about the need for reform of data protection legislation, we could talk about pnr - as we say in plain english - about the climate negotiations, which the president of the commission has just mentioned, as has the prime minister, or about the free trade agreement we will have with the united states in due course, which worries our citizens. in this context, we will have to find a european way of completing an undertaking which, at present, may well be alienating us from many voters. this is not only true of the german-speaking world, but is particularly relevant to this part of the european electorate. i would like to say, mr prime minister, that i hope that luxembourg will be the one to make significant european progress in the area of tax justice in the next six months. it is strange that luxembourgers should be making such admonitions to one another. i remember that several years ago, in 1997, prime minister juncker succeeded in putting a common corporate tax base on the european agenda. it was never put into effect because it was contested, not by luxembourg, but by others. i would like to see us bring this matter back into the mainstream. finally, there are issues that are even bigger. we must ensure that the european fund for strategic investments is the success it deserves, because this continent is sorely lacking in productive investment, not only in the mediterranean but also throughout our continent. this fund is intended to remedy this situation. secondly, in the context of greece in particular, luxembourg has a long tradition of moderation and convergence of attitudes and the continent has reached a point where centrifugal movements are numerous, frequent and intense. my group and i would like the luxembourg presidency to try to give our continent a more centrifugal dynamic. many people want to leave, others do not want to leave. the most important thing is to ensure that those who remain and have always been there find a unifying dynamic and not a dissonant one.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council of the union, we have just been informed of the priorities of the luxembourg presidency. i do not hide from you our satisfaction at being able to see our own, my group's, objectives, including the promotion of growth, the opening up of the markets of the future, the implementation of the digital single market, not to mention the obligation to succeed in the fight against climate change and the addis ababa conference on financing for development. it's a recurring theme, but this time it's different. the current presidency of the council of the union will not be judged solely on the number of laws it will have adopted, nor on the way it will assume its protocol obligations. no, this time it's different. this is no longer the time for empty phrases, or for optimism based on circumstance, much less for "it is only necessary to ... " we have become fewer in number to defend the european project. here in this very chamber, an impressive number of colleagues do not hide, or rather, their delight at seeing the european construction shaken to its foundations. we need, as we begin the summer of 2015, an unwavering determination to preserve what is essential: the bond between our nations, between the citizens who live in our nations. let us be courageous and determined to defend our freedoms. let's be ready to welcome the refugees. if they have managed to escape the hell of syria - often at the risk of their lives - it is certainly not to go and drown off the italian coast. the european project is based on the irreducibility of human dignity and not on malthusian approaches which make citizens believe that the limits have already been reached, when we have not even begun to explore new possibilities for cooperation. i hope that in this spirit there will still be enough of us to keep the momentum going, to mobilise the resources needed to maintain the single currency, which is much more than a matter of money. in view of the historic task before us, to refrain from spending 0.1 or 0.2 per cent of gdp in the short term to save what we have gained could cost us many times that amount in the future, with a europe in tatters. we are counting on your presidency and the presidencies that follow. let us not leave our europe to the so-called federalists or to the nationalists. in short, what we have before us is the organization of solidarity, burden-sharing and responsibility. good luck to your team in the next presidency!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. luxembourg is taking over the eu presidency at a very important moment for europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. i see four priorities: climate, refugees, fair tax policy, greece. climate: there is no negotiating with nature. either we respect nature's limits -- the climate is two degrees or less -- or nature is going to get out of control, as the heat waves in india, pakistan and now europe are showing. paris must be a success! refugees: acceptance of refugees from syria. one million in lebanon, one million in jordan, two million in turkey. what an international testimony to europe's poverty if we as the eu-28 cannot agree even to regularly take in 60,000 people in need in the coming weeks. (applause from the centre) fair taxation: social equity and investment capacity are only possible if there is a fair taxation policy. we are particularly called upon to do so as luxembourgers. greece: above all, there is the grexit issue. grexit would not only be a disaster for the people of greece. does the us need to remind us that an unstable greece in the quadrilateral between the balkans, turkey, russia and the middle east would be a bad, a very bad move? grexit could also be the beginning of the end of the euro and even of the european unification and peace process. of course mr tsipras has to do his homework. but we also need a movement on the other side: from mrs merkel, mr schäuble, mr gabriel, mr schulz, the gentlemen from the bavarian province and also the reclusive green party in berlin. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say, madam president, almost 2 million citizens in europe have signed this call for water as a public good. water in europe should not be subjected to liberalization, privatization or competition, and this should not be the task of corporations but of public utilities. and thirdly, water should also be kept out of trade agreements, precisely to prevent corporations in third world countries from dictating the water management. i thought we had a large majority in parliament to support this. this was also the case in the environment committee, and i am also very, very saddened by the approach of the conservatives, the ppe and the ecr, who are here, as it were, playing to the hearts of the corporations and demanding that water management be liberalized and privatised in europe too, and that water be included in ttip, tisa, ceta - that is, in the international trade agreements - with the aim of reducing the environmental impact of water. i hope we can prevent that in the vote tomorrow. thank you very much.
- i'm not sure. my dear colleagues! i would like to thank our coordinator, wim van de camp. it has succeeded in proposing short, medium and longterm measures. i would like to limit myself to three points, given my short speaking time. first, the road traffic. we have known the problems and challenges for some time, and to make the areas of security, social affairs, environment and competition a success, we do not need new laws, but better and, above all, harmonious, joint implementation of the laws and increased controls. i think that an agency, a single responsible body, would be a great improvement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and as far as aviation is concerned, this sector is increasingly at risk of losing ground in international competition. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commissioner, after several years of stagnation caused by her predecessor, is called upon to restore transport to its place as a vital sector for the economy and jobs, and as one which the citizens of europe expect.
i have to say, madam president, yes, we need more political engagement in the middle east. yes, we need more development aid. but i remember that the president of the commission rightly said here last week: there is no sea, there is no wall, and there is no fence that someone who sees his life threatened, who flees from war, who seeks protection and needs protection, does not want to overcome with his child on his back. these people won't let fences stop them. they won't let tear gas stop them either. and the only way to meet them, if we don't want to take them in, is with more violence. australia has tried that. boats with refugees have sunk. the sinking of refugee boats was deliberately tolerated. and these refugee boats with sunken migrants, with dead migrants, these migrants sitting around on pacific islands, are one of the reasons that australia has now changed its policy and retired the prime minister who was responsible for this. i hope we do not start this policy on this continent, where human rights originate!
madam president, i would like to express some reservations about the optimism that has just been expressed by some of my colleagues. i do not share this optimism for the simple reason that we have serious problems of financing and compatibility with the commitments made in the framework of the european consensus on development. i would remind you that we are far short of the commitments we have made, in particular the 0.7% of official development aid in relation to gross domestic product. we are far short of the commitments already announced at monterey, at the conference which preceded the addis ababa conference. in addition, there are constant announcements of new funds, including the trust fund, which ultimately amounts to stripping peter to clothe paul. we are going to use the commission's funds and appeal to the member states which are - i said - far short of the commitments they have made. when will we stop this inconsistency and finally trust the commitments we made in the most solemn way in 2005?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the commissioner, the energy union can only work if each country does not fight to the last millimetre for its national energy mix. and so i welcome your personal commitment to regional cooperation, and we have just strengthened your back here in parliament by voting in that direction. it is also important - and right - that renewable energy and energy efficiency are given a central place, both now through the labelling directive and in market design. your paper is also very much inspired by what is being discussed in germany. and we need to organize a flexible electricity market around renewable energy, wind and solar. what is still missing from your proposals are two things: one is a fair market. what is the commission's position on nuclear power plant reserves? it is not possible that even in a country like germany, at some point, 30, 40, 50 billion will have to be raised by the taxpayer and the operators of nuclear power stations will not pay and will have an unfair advantage in a single market which is supposed to be fair. and the second thing that is missing, and that is what we have in common with our colleagues from eastern europe, is that this proposal to double the nord stream pipeline is a provocation! this is an unacceptable provocation and i hope you will be clear, commissioner. this project cannot be done at this time, and you must help stop it!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the vw scandal is a triple scandal. first, the fraud by vw. secondly, german authorities protecting fraudsters for 18 months, and thirdly, an eu commission that had information and did not act. and we can now quickly restore confidence, partly because parliament has tabled a very good amendment to the report to improve the test cycle quickly, starting in 2017 with a correlation factor of 1. the council is more in favour of this amendment. what is the commission doing today? today, in the context of comitology, the commission has tried to torpedo this good proposal of parliament, which may well find a majority in the council, by putting forward a correlation factor of 1.6. you're not really making good policy. the european commission should now work with us to restore confidence.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, first i want to thank my colleague reinhard bütikofer, whose initiative it was to have this debate this evening. doubling the nord stream pipeline capacity between russia and germany is a very bad idea. we could even call it a provocation which threatens the unity of the european energy union and the eu’s neighbourhood policy. russia’s and gazprom’s strategy is clear: cutting off ukraine from the energy transport network, with all the geopolitical and economic consequences that implies; hurting the central and eastern european countries and their citizens’ economies by making gas deliveries more difficult and more expensive; and creating a more dominant position, thus undermining competition. this is against the interest of the european energy union, against european solidarity and against our geopolitical interest in ukraine. i am sure that the majority of this house and the majority of governments wholeheartedly endorse these arguments. but there are important lobbies behind this. representatives of the french gaz de france suez, now called ng, the german basf wintershall and the dutch-british shell are already hanging around our corridors to lobby us to be soft on it, arguing that it is merely a commercial project. they have very powerful allies: françois hollande and angela merkel, who are sitting here this afternoon, and david cameron. so my question to these three leaders is: where is your coherence on ukraine policy? where is your solidarity with our neighbours in central and eastern europe? do not tell us this is a commercial project. it is a political project. it is a highly explosive, highly divisive, political project. therefore, not only do i want the commission to take a strong position – and i believe we have the right man sitting here – i also want council president tusk to stop hiding away. i am deeply sorry, but if this project does not make it on to the agenda of a forthcoming european council then we should forget about the european energy union. so i want ms merkel, mr hollande and mr cameron to explain to the other prime ministers why they are hiding away and why they favour this project, which is so divisive and which has to be stopped.
madam president, we will need to mobilise 100 billion dollars by 2020 for developing countries, just to fight climate change. all at once? no, every year. the developed countries have pledged 62 billion at this stage, to which are added the 15 billion announced by the world bank, the african development bank and the european bank for reconstruction and development. what these numbers don't tell you is that, first, we may not be able to mobilize the remaining 23 billion. if that were the case, there would only be a month and a half left to do it. secondly, if it can be done, there is a strong chance that substantial sums will be drawn from the development funds. i would therefore like to invite both the commission and the member states to take action so that the european contribution is complementary to official development aid. can the commission make a solemn commitment to this?
madam president, mr gilles pargneaux, i would like to congratulate you on your report. it is a report which is clear and has ambition. yes to a binding and ambitious agreement in paris. yes to clear funding. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and yes, especially to renewable energy and energy efficiency. now, when we come to vote, we see the right saying, "yes, maybe something can be done about climate change", but they don't want us to be specific about the instruments. i say we need to move towards renewable energy and energy efficiency, not just for the climate, but also to make us less dependent on mr putin and to create jobs in europe. i therefore say no to the amendments tabled by the ppe group and the ecr group with a view to the vote.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the european citizens' initiative is one of the most innovative ways in which the lisbon treaty enhances the democratic legitimacy of the european union. indeed, who would not welcome greater involvement of citizens in european affairs? we consider it appropriate, however, to evaluate its operation after a period of four years, without, however, calling into question the very principle of the european initiative. indeed, many initiatives have run into obstacles of various kinds to the point of having to abandon their project for good. our colleague mr schöpflin has given a good account of the work of the committee on constitutional affairs, and i should like to congratulate him on that. the committee on constitutional affairs was almost unanimous in its desire to improve the functioning of the citizens' initiative. we support the proposals to simplify procedures. in the same vein, we think it would be appropriate for the commission to register only the part of an initiative which falls within its sphere of competence and to forward the remaining part or parts to the competent national or regional authorities. while we share most of the views expressed by the rapporteur, we would like to make it clear, however, as the alde group, that the commission should also accept initiatives which concern primary eu law. from this point of view, it is clear that the functioning of the european union is often paralysed by the limits imposed on it by the treaty. the commission, which has the right to initiate treaty changes, could thus become the depository of proposals from european citizens. to this end, we tabled an amendment with the green group to extend the citizens' initiative to treaty matters.
the rapporteur. mr president, the first cases of ebola virus disease in the european union and the united states quickly caused panic in the respective public opinion. nothing like this happened from march to september 2014, when thousands of people infected with the virus had already died in sierra leone, liberia and guinea, where the crisis hit hard. in many respects this crisis is systemic. first, in terms of the systemic failure of global governance, the world health organization itself has acknowledged its part of the responsibility for the slow alert. secondly, as regards the systemic poverty in the three countries affected by the crisis, some telling data underline its particularly acute character: 80% live in extreme poverty, the average duration of schooling is barely more than four years, and health systems are not very resilient. thirdly, at european level too, systems can be improved, particularly as regards coordination between the 29 players, the commission and the member states. the appointment of commissioner stylianides as the european union's coordinator for the fight against ebola has finally changed the pace of the search for european solutions for the victims in the three african countries. as for the lessons that can already be learned from the current crisis, let us mention that firstly, the exemplary commitment of humanitarians, and more particularly of the actors of msf and the red cross, has contributed to a very wide awareness and has aroused unanimous admiration, while they have paid a heavy price. the fight against the ebola virus has claimed the lives of some five hundred health professionals. second, when the international community finally woke up, and particularly its pharmaceutical industry, vaccine development responses could be found quite quickly. thirdly, health systems in developing countries cannot be left to rot on the grounds that the recovery of public finances takes precedence over any other consideration. fourthly, there is an urgent need to address systematically the question of who is responsible for research and development in the treatment of rare diseases or diseases that primarily affect patients in developing countries. the political sphere, if it is acquired by the principle of non-indifference, can no longer ignore this problem. the european parliament should initiate a new report on this issue in close cooperation with coordinator stylianides and taking into account the lessons to be learned from the european parliament's mission to west africa in early november. fifth, it is becoming urgent to rebuild the three countries, whose health systems and economies have collapsed rapidly since the outbreak began. finally, the european parliament was right to claim and to support, throughout the year, its proposal to devote at least 20% of its external public aid to the development of basic social sectors, particularly, and above all, the health system. in conclusion, let us not let our guard down in the face of a smart virus - alas, smart - that may still manifest itself in other forms than those already known. we also have a moral obligation to make the right of patients to access treatment worldwide a principle of sustainable political action. finally, let us not delay in helping africa to take ownership of its own development, particularly and above all in the field of health research and development.
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank members very much for this very rich discussion and their fruitful proposals. i would like to say again that this report – the goerens report – outlines important lessons to be learned from the ebola crisis. we are all part of this learning process. once again i say a big thank you to charles goerens for his work and for his dedication. at the same time, i would like to say something – as linda mcavan mentioned – about the universal coverage system. as i already mentioned, i completely agree and this is why i am already focusing on the issue of the world health organization (who). the reform of the who is essential for future outbreaks in many other countries, maybe in africa or elsewhere. this is why we need to promote this reform of the who. it will be the most important instrument for the next epidemic. together, the commission and the member states should revisit development cooperation in health, where needed and in particular in the three african countries. i saw on the ground the problems in those three countries and i realised that the lessons learned may be the most important basis for the future for us as an international community, and we of course have to support those countries which are most in need. it is very important to achieve the health-related sdgs and, first of all, to build resilient health systems so that they are better prepared for possible future disease outbreaks – because we will, unfortunately, have more outbreaks in the future. we have to do so with a more predictable, targeted and longer—term partnership approach. this is the only way. i would like to thank charles goerens again for his work because we now have a basis for the future as well as a record of the lessons learned.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i should like to begin by thanking all my colleagues who have spoken on this report. i thank them for their kind words to me, and the same goes for commissioner stylianides. the subject matter of this report is very relevant because it is a matter of life and death and must therefore be taken very seriously. our committee on development has for years been insisting on the need to devote more resources to promoting health sectors in developing countries. it has not missed an opportunity - either in the budget discussions or in specific reports on the subject - to stress the need for greater efforts to promote research and development in african countries. in development, you don't develop others, you have to give others the means to develop themselves. we have not missed an opportunity to stress the need for improved governance, whether at global, international, european or african level. there is no fatality in the issue we have just touched upon, because there have been results. we have not missed an opportunity to stigmatize the slow response of the international community at the beginning, and especially of the institutional actors, and finally things got underway, especially thanks to the resolution we voted in september 2014 which was, in my view, the best resolution we ever voted in this parliament on health issues affecting developing countries. a colleague said we were ridiculous, and he compared malaria to ebola. but listen, my dear colleagues, it is not one or the other, it is both, ebola must be treated and malaria must also be treated. it's not tb or aids, it's tb and aids. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the member who ridiculed this assembly on the grounds that there were few seats left his seat two seconds after he had spoken. finally, let me stress that there is no need to let our guard down, and michele rivasi has just said so. this virus is a terrible virus. it comes in other forms, it makes us discover other means of transmission, so we are not at the end of our suffering, all the more reason to remain vigilant. i think that after the lesson or lessons that we just learned from the ebola virus, i am more confident at the end of 2015 than at the beginning of the crisis, especially during the period from march to september 2014. thank you, and let me remind you of one last message. the report also stresses the question of who is responsible for research and development of new medicines. the market has an important role to play, but it must not be left to act alone. i say this as a liberal, as a supporter of the development of the market economy. there are also whole beaches where policy has to take responsibility, and i hope that our committee on the environment and health, together with the committee on development, can find, or at least initiate, a beginning to answer this question, which i admit is a difficult one. it was too big a piece to swallow in the context of this report, which is why we are calling on the committees concerned in this matter in our european parliament to look into this extremely important aspect.
the rapporteur. madam president, i tabled an oral amendment to paragraph 2a (new) which reads as follows: 'considers that there is no need to lower the guard in view of the few new cases of ebola, the mode of transmission of which is still questionable'.
the rapporteur. madam president, as the situation in the fight against ebola has changed since my report was adopted in the committee on development, i have tabled an oral amendment setting out the most recent figures available before the vote in plenary. it reads as follows... whereas three new confirmed cases of ebola virus disease were registered in the week to 18 october, all of which in guinea; whereas the country had reported zero cases for the previous two weeks; whereas sierra leone reported zero cases for a fifth consecutive week; whereas the who declared liberia free of ebola virus transmission in the human population on 3 september; whereas there have been 28 512 confirmed cases, including 11 313 confirmed deaths. other
member of the commission.– madam president, the commission supports the compromise agreed in principle between the parliament and the council. this compromise is the result of long negotiations. it strikes a balanced solution which allows us to move forward on a file which has been blocked for too long. we should also keep in mind that this compromise is directly based on ideas submitted by the court of justice itself. a quick finalisation of this reform is considered very important by the commission. the situation within the general court remains a source of concern. this reform will allow the court to reduce its backlog of pending cases and to speed up the treatment of cases. effective judicial review is a fundamental right guaranteed by the charter. however, judicial review is only effective if it is also timely. we therefore owe it to citizens and economic operators to reinforce the capacity of the court to hear their cases quickly. rapid settlement of disputes and clarification of legal issues is also in the interests of the commission and of the union as a whole. the commission also welcomes the solution found to promote gender balance within the court, which is an objective fully shared by the commission. accordingly, let me again stress the full support of the commission for the compromise found and its confidence that, if the amendments negotiated with the council are approved, the commission will be in a position to deliver a positive opinion on these amendments.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, justice is a fundamental principle, a right and an obligation in a democracy, and the justice of the european union, our own, is in trouble today. as representatives of the people, we have a duty to defend and protect it by giving it the means it needs to do its job. the numbers don't lie. the need to increase the number of judges on the court is undeniable. the number of cases pending on the altar of inaction is increasing year by year and five actions for failure to meet the reasonable time limit have already been brought, the total amount claimed amounting to almost 27 million, which is more than the cost of the reform. the compromise reached also allows us to make unprecedented progress towards equality between men and women, and this is all to the credit of the european parliament. we must not let this chance to achieve a concrete objective, which has been repeatedly claimed in symbolic declarations, pass us by. that is why i call on all democrats to vote for the proposal, for the compromise, for more justice and equality in the european union. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question posed by the blue card. i would like to ask the honourable member if she does not think that the problem of the increasing pressure on this judicial institution could be solved by increasing the number of legal assistants. we have a very good experience with this in the czech republic.
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, we have come to the conclusion that having too many referenda per judge means that judges are not held accountable and that it is important to give them the means, but rather by increasing the number of judges.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission president, mr juncker, had promised during the election campaign: democratisation and transparency in the field of genetic engineering! instead of transparency we have black box, and instead of democratization we have renationalization. this proposal is a giant fraud. it is not practicable and the commission itself knows that it is not compatible with the wto. it is likely that this fog bomb was very closely linked to the ttip negotiations in order to keep genetic engineering away from the negotiating table during the ttip negotiations. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. genetic engineering is an important issue for the public. now we need a serious proposal. we greens have set the line: evaluation in europe, growing feed, and clear labelling for feed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, thank you very much for your comments on the aviation package. i agree with you that aviation needs urgently needed impetus to put european airlines, airports and the whole industry in a stronger position. to do this, we need - as you said - a long-term strategy. many direct jobs - several million - are asking us to: while we understand the economic considerations - and colleagues have pointed this out across the political groups - we must not forget the social dimension. working conditions have a direct impact on safety, the top priority in aviation. the problems were recently identified at the conference on the social agenda for the transport sector. we need highly qualified and motivated workers, and that is why we must adhere to practices and standards such as collective agreements and social dialogue. we need a clear definition of home base. we need better enforcement of the rules of mobile workers in the sector. what we do not need, what we must abolish, are the dubious business practices of the cheap flags, the atypical employment conditions, the sham independence, the pay to fly systems, the zero-hour contracts and other precarious working conditions.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, nine months ago we had a debate in this plenary when i was here to present the energy union strategy with a forward-looking climate policy which had just been adopted by the commission. i was very encouraged by your reactions in this house. this gave the strategy important momentum from the very beginning. nine months of intensive work and intensive contacts have passed since then. in the commission this was very important collective work, involving 14 commissioners on the energy union project team. i would like to thank them here in the plenary for this work. we have proved that the new commission structure works and can deliver. last week, we added a new instrument to our energy toolbox: the state of the energy union report. this will become an annual exercise to take stock but also to provide concrete policy guidance for the year ahead. this will allow you – and us – to keep up the momentum and to have a debate every year about all the dimensions of the energy union. your support and your commitment to this ambitious project are crucial. as co-legislator, you will have to set the legislative framework for the energy union and you can carry the debate into your capitals, cities and regions, and to the citizens in your constituencies. as you know very well, their support for the energy union will be decisive. let me highlight four key messages that need political attention in 2016. the first is to highlight the fact that the eu must remain the leader in the transition to a low-carbon society. cop21 is only days away, where the eu, and notably our chief negotiator miguel arias cañete, will spare no effort to get an ambitious, legally-binding agreement with a built-in review mechanism. the eu must also continue to lead the way after cop21. the emissions trading system (ets) reform and the new electricity market design must give the right signals for clean and energy—efficient technologies. we will make proposals for a heating and cooling strategy and for the decarbonisation of transport. we will also propose the effort sharing decision in the non-ets sector. we will present legislation to ensure that we reach the 2030 targets on renewables and energy efficiency, the latter having in mind an eu level of 30%. in parallel, we will further develop our financing instruments, making them more suitable for financing needs at the local level and for energy efficiency needs in the building sector. my second main message is to highlight the fact that, if we want this fundamental energy transition to be successful, it has to be socially fair and consumer centred. we must empower our consumers, as we explained in the communication that we discussed with you in plenary in september, together with the rest of the summer package. but i am also convinced that in 2016 we should pay particular attention to the increasing numbers of the energy poor. when we review our legislation next year, we should make sure that the interests of energy-poor consumers are duly taken into account. my third message focuses on the geopolitical challenges, because they will not go away in 2016 and we need to be on top of them. we have to keep pushing for the diversification of energy sources, routes and suppliers, especially through an ambitious liquefied natural gas (lng) strategy which we will present in february. at the same time, we will present a revision of the security of gas supply regulation and proposals to revise the decision on intergovernmental agreements. let me mention another issue to which i want to pay special attention. we have to speed up work on infrastructure projects. i am glad that we have also adopted the second projects of common interest (pci) list – a list that is more focused, moving from 248 to 195 projects of common interest, and much better aligned to the core objectives of the energy union. let me also say a word about nord stream 3 and 4. i know this is a subject of huge interest and concern to this house, as reflected in president buzek’s letter sent to commissioner arias cañete and me two weeks ago on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy. we have taken note of the plans of commercial companies to build further pipelines connecting russia and germany through the baltic sea. these pipelines, if built, will have to comply fully with eu law. but let me also state that this project would not give access to a new source of supply and even further increase excess transmission capacity from russia to the eu. the eu will only support infrastructure projects that are in line with the core principles of the energy union, including the eu’s energy security strategy. diversification of energy sources, suppliers and routes is crucial for ensuring secure and resilient supplies to european union citizens and companies. it is for these reasons that the nord stream project will not become a project of common interest and will not benefit from eu financing. but let me also clearly say this: ukraine proved to be a reliable transit partner for russian gas throughout the last winter, and the eu believes that it is in the interest of all parties that ukraine remains an important transit country. last but not least, my fourth message. with this state of the energy union, we are laying the first building blocks of a ‘governance mechanism’ that will bring more transparency and predictability to investors and businesses. the low-carbon and energy-efficient technologies are here, but they need investment. when ready, the governance mechanism will thus be based on three pillars. the first will be the state of the energy union report with its policy conclusions and country fact sheets, all of which we will further develop in the coming years. in that way we will keep implementation of the energy union under close scrutiny. we will keep it regularly on the european agenda through discussion in this parliament and in different council formations. it will also allow the european council to give continued guidance on this issue. the second pillar will be represented by national energy and climate plans with biannual progress reports, covering all five dimensions, covering the 2021—2030 period, and promoting regional cooperation between member states. this year we are providing, firstly, guidance and key indicators for the progress reports. next year we will come with a proposal to ensure that this monitoring and reporting system is firmly anchored in legislation. the third pillar will be represented by the sector-specific legislation that i mentioned before, in particular to ensure that we reach our 2030 targets. in all this, we will ensure that this parliament will play its full part in making the energy union happen. so i think that i can say that we have got off to a good start in 2015, but my promise to you today is that 2016 will be the energy union’s ‘year of delivery’.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, i would like to address the commissioner. yes, you have made some progress over the last nine months by making south-eastern europe a bit calmer after south stream was cancelled, bringing poland back on track on the gas interconnector poland-lithuania (gipl) and working with the baltic countries around the baltic sea. i think it is working, with ukraine, to stabilise the relations with russia. so on that front some progress has been made, and a lot of it is to your personal credit. but overall, what you presented last week is weak. it is a paper without a clear vision. i will identify this on three points: one is energy efficiency. “a binding 30% objective for energy efficiency by 2030 is, to me,” said jean-claude juncker last year “the minimum if we want to be credible and forward-looking”. one year later, this is a completely broken promise. in your paper you speak of 27%, and this is not even binding. can you please explain to us: what is the word of the president of the commission if one year later it does not count any more? in the modelling exercise you are doing, our call for 40% is not even modelled, which i think is democratically not acceptable to this institution. on energy efficiency, what is the situation in the world? world investments in renewables have grown by 14%. europe’s investments in renewables are almost stagnating. where was the commission in spain on the retroactive changes? what concrete proposals have you made for paris? jean—louis borloo, the former french minister under the sarkozy government, is calling for a big plan for africa, including for reasons of migration. why do we not go for massive pv deployment in africa? you have presented nothing this year on renewables but hostility towards renewables. on ets: ets has largely failed over the last ten years. can you explain to me how we will bring back gas and phase out coal with this weak ets price? how do you foresee phasing out coal? yes, you are discussing nord stream at the commission. but if nord stream goes ahead, then we will weaken ukraine and make eastern europe so fragile that we will completely discredit the energy union. please, stand up and be courageous, including on these particular french and german interests in nord stream. we need a vision. do we need another energy crisis before europe gets its act together? the commission is active now in the crisis on migration, but unambitious when it comes to energy union.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. you say that energy costs are high in europe. that may still be true for gas, but for electricity, we had an electricity price of 60, 65 euros on the leipzig stock exchange in 2008. today we are under 35, in scandinavia we are at 25. what facts do you rely on to claim that the electricity exchange price, which is also the industrial price, ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to join with all those who have congratulated the rapporteurs and the chairman of our special committee on the work of the past few months, the one in terms of the drafting, the other in terms of the political leadership of a committee whose task was not easy. we now have a report that tells us, over a staggering number of pages, what is wrong. and it's not okay for a very good reason. this is not the case for the simple reason that all the member states, and some of them, including my own, more than others, but also other parts of the world are involved in a global competition to attract the headquarters of large companies. they are engaged in this competition by means which they consider just and adequate, but which, unfortunately, do not always correspond to the highest ethical standards. mr president, as we are preparing to extend our work for another six months, i would like to know whether the commissioner could not envisage extending the status of what we already have, the european company, to a fiscal dimension in the future, so that the european union becomes a player in this global competition to attract headquarters, by applying a european tax rate to local authorities in the union, which also increases the budget of the european union as an own resource.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, this is not a question, but i too wondered why the luxembourg presidency was not here. i was assured that the european parliament had decided not to invite you. this seems extremely strange to me but i wanted to share this information with you.
for the greens/efa group. mr president, i first of all thank mr martin for his report and i personally believe that the border adjustment instrument is a good instrument. frankly, neither climate policy nor the general electricity prices in europe are a problem today for the steel industry. british prices for electricity are twice as high as in germany and in scandinavia: twice as high. this has much more to do with splendid isolation and the fact that the british market is not interconnected with europe, because in scandinavia and in germany power prices are much lower. so we should stop blaming the european climate and energy policy. the problem we have in europe with steel is that demand has broken down. that has to do with the lehman brothers crisis and our overstretched austerity politics in europe. when people buy fewer goods, when we underinvest in infrastructure, then we don't create a steep demand for steel, and that is the problem. we have to have a reinvestment strategy for europe. the second issue is then, of course, how we deal with china and its huge overcapacity. the question to the commission, but also i think to our british colleagues, is: who is advocating giving china market economy status? the commission wants to give it, cameron wants to give it, but then the question is: how do we organise anti-dumping if we give market status to the chinese economy?
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. let me start by saying that we have worked well with the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur. we have produced a good, balanced report and i am pleased that you, madam commissioner, are incorporating it into the work of the commission. it was important to us that the same standards apply to all employees, regardless of the sector and the size of the company. it was also important to address the specificities of smes and to support them with practical tools and guidelines. but above all, clear rules are needed. the labour market is changing and we must adapt our health and safety standards accordingly. the new challenges have already been mentioned. we need additional data on psychosocial risks such as stress, depression, burnout, but also on new technologies such as nanotechnology and biotechnology and also on digitisation and demographic change. but we must not neglect the existing risks, the existing problems, for example in the case of asbestos, where clearly existing regulations and requirements are still not being implemented. better cooperation between labour inspectorates - you also mentioned this, commissioner - and, as regards refit, simplification of legislation, but no deregulation.
mr president, let us try not to make a complete isolationist and security-oriented bid. the dismantling of schengen will not bring us any closer to those who are already here and who are plunging us into a climate of insecurity. the hundred mosques mentioned by mr juvin have not been closed, although it is known that they preach the most monstrous radicalism. such mosques exist throughout our continent, and we do not need a permanent state of emergency to enforce criminal law in all its current severity, to arrest those who preach hatred and to close the relays and channels of radicalism and radicalization on our territory. the ones who want to do us harm are in most cases, if not all cases, already in our midst. we must fight them at home, not those who seek refuge from the same terrorists who assault us in these sad times.
mr president, the fight against poverty, aid to minorities in difficulty, the fight against political instability, the role of climate change in the displacement of populations - how many times have we not made these observations? the responsibility to protect, the best document i think ever written, at the request of the united nations, on the relationship between poverty, insecurity, bad governance, inter- or intra-national war, had already, fifteen years ago, described the current problem in a relevant way. while i can only applaud the goodwill of the commission officials, the european external action service, mrs mogherini and the luxembourg presidency, who have invested themselves in the preparations for the valletta summit, there is still reason to doubt the enthusiasm of the member states, to say the least, to assume their responsibilities in implementing the conclusions of the summit. the member states, at least 25 of them, plus switzerland and norway, announced a contribution of 81 million. compared to the 1.8 billion announced, this is barely 6% of the total amount. but who are we kidding? but what are we waiting for as european parliamentarians to invite the member states to come and give an account to our parliament of how they intend to honour their commitment made in monterey and renewed in 2015 in the framework of the european consensus for development in addis ababa. from summit to summit, from international conference to international conference, we are always told the same story of wanting to raise official development aid to 0.7% of gross national income. we're on the clock, the only thing moving is the deadline. we can see the solution pointing to the horizon, but we can also see that the horizon is a line that recedes as we go forward. when the deadline for meeting its commitments comes, the council postpones the deadline by 15 years. not all, but sweden, denmark, the netherlands, luxembourg and soon the united kingdom.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, after eleven months of a large-scale awareness-raising campaign, the european year for development has been a success. the cooperation established between the political leaders, the representatives of the ngos, the territorial representatives and those of the private sector in particular is to be welcomed. the major challenges that emerged in 2015 highlighted the indispensable contribution of development to solving our problems. the refugee crisis is a case in point. the last few weeks have shown how essential it was to put the principle of respect for dignity at the heart of the 2015 campaign. some, including the european commission and some member states, have acted in accordance with this principle. others, while supporting the idea of the european year for development, tended to promote the principle of indifference. no threshold, no ceiling, no consideration based on the exploitation of difference can undermine dignity. the european year for development is therefore a reminder that the current problems of lawlessness, bad governance and threats to internal peace in developing countries are the result of what we have done over the last 15 to 20 years. these problems are the result of our action, but also of our inaction. what we fail to do or refuse to do today will affect the world situation for the next twenty years. let us be determined, resolute, uncompromising once our promise is made. this promise will have to be fulfilled in terms of principles, but also in terms of the means we intend to mobilise for its implementation. there is no question of ending the great awareness campaign of 2015; the slogan "our world, our dignity, our future" is therefore destined to be perpetuated, as it is important to preserve it on the path traced in 2015. let us therefore continue to act in accordance with the objectives, principles and motto of the european year for development. the joint statement by parliament, the council and the commission is clearly in line with this and should be welcomed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make one comment on the many amendments on the energy union. i can tell you that we have spent hours and hours trying to reach compromises in five groups, and at the last moment the enf tabled 40, 50 amendments, 40, 50, 60 requests for separate votes. if we let this get to deportation every time, we're going to be blackmailed all the time. that means we need a strategy against this quasi-blackmail attempt by this group.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i do not know whether the commissioner is a santa claus or a wise man from the tres reyes. but in any case he did a good job in paris with the luxembourg minister for the environment, and i want to thank him for that. i am not going to go into detail. the report on which we are voting tomorrow shows a certain discrepancy with the mood of excitement that prevailed in paris. if we want to move forward with the energy union, we will either argue all the time about things like coal, nuclear, shale gas, or we will try to agree on five no regrets together. energy efficiency: we should go further. and, commissioner, perhaps you can add something to this later: it is important that the commission's models 27, 30, 33, 35 but also 40% of energy efficiency is applied to jobs in europe, reduction of energy imports, competitiveness and climate protection. the second, renewable energy: right, the mood in paris is going up, more than 100 multinational companies are saying they want 100% renewable energy. 2030 must not be a brake on 100% renewable energy, but a lever in that direction. thirdly, smart grids. my colleague peter eriksson has described this well for the higher-level networks, but we also need this at the distribution level. fourthly, functioning markets: the ets does not function as well as it used to, and neither do the energy markets. we'll have to work on that next year. and fifthly, we need a common foreign energy policy, 29 votes in one direction. and the doubling of the nord stream gas pipeline is not constructive and must be withdrawn. i think that mrs merkel and mr hollande should understand that. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i'm sorry you weren't in paris last week. if you didn't know, big solar plants now cost half as much as new nuclear plants. and that is the end of this debate, also in europe. money is a no-go. we gotta get out of there. we must also consider how we can meet poland. we need a strategy for poland to help poland move more towards efficiency and renewable energy. shale gas: with all due respect, injecting tons of chemicals into the soil and then hoping that the drinking water isn't destroyed, that's really not a good idea.
blue-card question.– i think that you are talking a lot of nonsense here, especially when you blame europe for the high energy prices in the uk. so listen now, because i will state the facts. prices in the uk today are eur 55 per megawatt hour; prices in scandinavia are eur 25 per megawatt hour today. scandinavia has five, six, eight times more renewables and more climate policy than the uk, so if there is anybody to blame for the high prices, it is london, not brussels.
mr president, it is a bit like in paris. we were also delayed in connection with cop. in order to update the text – because you know that in paris, one of the big achievements was to mention the 1.5°c limit – so we added at the end of the sentence: ‘below 2 degrees celsius’ and ‘efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5 degrees celsius’.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it should be clear to anyone who observes the european scene that the schengen area is in danger. with ever more partitions, new walls, internal borders closing, we risk seeing the end of an era that was felt as a liberation by a younger generation of europeans who could and still can move freely across the continent. the abolition of schengen would be a catastrophe for this continent, both economically and humanely. i am not just talking about the border workers who come to work in luxembourg or switzerland, or who cross the øresund from sweden to denmark every day and vice versa, but also about the millions of europeans who take advantage of this opportunity every day and of an entire economic system which operates on the basis of just-in-time deliveries and everything that goes with it. we must abolish it and we will struggle to regain even a little bit of the growth we so badly need on this continent. but apart from that, commissioner, what the commission is proposing today is only logical. for our common borders, for the borders of europe, for our external borders, how much more logical it is that our borders are protected by our troops, by our agency, by our logic of protecting these borders, wherever they may be. an external border is a european border. these measures are measures against the hypocrisy of all those who complain that the external borders are never protected and who protest when they are finally protected. i hope that in the end our frontiers will be protected by a european dynamism.
mr president, i agree with the commissioner that we will have to go to 1.5°c maximum and we will have to do this early. so all indcs will have to be raised in ambition on climate mitigation in 2018-19, which also means that all the modelling the commission did back in 2013 is obsolete – 40/27/27 is not good enough, and it is not based on good enough modelling to achieve 1.5°c. you will be in a dilemma. this morning we voted, as a way out of this dilemma, on a model as the basis for all the legislation next year, including non-ets – 27/30/33/35/40 energy efficiency – and that will show you that europe can be more ambitious on climate change, while doing something for jobs in europe and for european competitivity. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. you all need to understand that the eu commission was tricked and manipulated in 2013 and for the impact assessment of january 2014. we can do more in europe on energy efficiency, we can do more in europe on renewable energy. if we do 30:30%, we automatically get to 45%, if we do 33:33, we get to 50% greenhouse gas emissions. it is the commission's duty now to provide all eu institutions with objective information on the impact of such scenarios on jobs, competitiveness and the climate.
mr president, i thank our colleague mr preda for his excellent report, but it is the current events that inspire me to say the following: the european union is committed to ensuring that human rights are respected everywhere in the world. let me remind you that the world begins at home, at our gates and in our countries. as far as the mediterranean is concerned, the indifference and the lack of concern shown by some member states are not unknown to the tragedies that have occurred there. there are, however, texts to which all the member states of the european union have subscribed and which oblige us to provide aid to people in danger. among these texts are the geneva conventions, which require us to grant asylum to those who have no other choice but to flee from terror and barbarism. it is not the texts that are lacking, it is the method that must be considered. member states which refuse to accept refugees on their territory or which can only speak of an upper limit in terms of acceptance are failing in their obligations, are dishonoring policy, not to mention the fatal blow they risk dealing to europe. rights and solidarity go hand in hand in matters of immigration and the reception of refugees. the codification of rights in this area will remain a dead letter unless there is a shared will on the part of all to take the side of the weak. so we all need to examine our conscience before we give the rest of the world a lesson. the coherence of the european union's external action prevents us from tolerating in our own country what we stigmatize in the eyes of others.
